Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H8463
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2019 No. 170
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. EVANS).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
October 28, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable DWIGHT
EVANS to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
RECOGNIZING DR. DANIEL P. KING
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. VELA) for 5 minutes.
Mr. VELA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Dr. Daniel P. King for his
service to the Rio Grande Valley in the
State of Texas.
Dr. King is a proven leader in the
34th Congressional District of Texas.
As a public school superintendent for
the last 14 years, he has guided dis-
trict-wide initiatives to improve stu-
dent performance and graduation rates
across south Texas. Under his leader-
ship as superintendent at Pharr-San
Juan-Alamo Independent School Dis-
trict, the annual dropout rate has been
reduced by more than 90 percent, and
the overall high school completion rate
now surpasses the State average. He
also helped establish the College 3 pro-
gram which aims to offer every single
student the opportunity to earn at
least 12 college hours before high
school graduation.
This year PSJA named its newest
early college campus the Dr. Daniel P.
King College & University Center in
recognition of his accomplishments.
Prior to his role at PSJA ISD, Dr.
King was superintendent at Hidalgo
Independent School District where he
led the development of the first early
college school district in the Nation. In
2006, Hidalgo ISD earned the H-E-B Ex-
cellence in Education Award. And in
2007 U.S. News & World Report named
Hidalgo High the 11th best high school
in the Nation and number one in Texas.
He also earned the State Super-
intendent of the Year Award in 2006 by
the Texas Association of School
Boards.
Dr. King is an influential educator,
and his numerous accomplishments
have paved the way for continued stu-
dent success in south Texas. Our com-
munity is thankful for his contribu-
tions, and I am grateful to have had
the opportunity to work with him.
As we honor Dr. Daniel P. King, I
also want to acknowledge his wife,
Sara, who is a PSJA faculty member,
and their six children who have sup-
ported Dr. King in achieving his profes-
sional goals.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
join his family, our community, and
me in wishing him a happy retirement
and thanking him for his service.
f
AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Kansas (Mr. MARSHALL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, last
week the biggest news in Congress was
overshadowed by an impeachment cir-
cus. The Republican Study Committee
and our task force introduced a frame-
work for personalized, affordable
healthcare.
Mr. Speaker, our current healthcare
system is broken. It is simply not
working. Healthcare costs are out of
control, and it is time we modernize it.
We promise to all of America that we
will deliver personalized healthcare
where you and your doctor will remain
in control of your healthcare. This is
phase one of a two-phase plan which
will protect vulnerable Americans with
preexisting conditions, chronic ill-
nesses, and serious health issues while
reducing premiums, deductibles, and
overall healthcare costs.
Personally, I can’t wait to continue
working on these important issues to
improve the lives of Kansans and de-
liver for America.
NATIONAL FFA CONVENTION
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, today
dozens of Kansas FFA members, Fu-
ture Farmers of America, are in Indi-
anapolis, Indiana, for the start of the
2009 National FFA Convention. They
will be joining students from Pennsyl-
vania to California and more than a
dozen high school students from my
own district will be competing in var-
ious competitions, including Clay Cen-
ter, Kansas, FFA member Garrett
Craig who will be competing for a posi-
tion as a national FFA officer.
Good luck to you, Garrett.
While it is known for agriculture
education, Kansas FFA chapters are
thriving in rural America as well as
urban school districts and have intro-
duced thousands of new students to ag-
riculture and ag-related career oppor-
tunities.
I want to wish all Kansas FFA stu-
dents participating in Indianapolis this
week the best of luck and trust that
Kansas will continue its long legacy of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:19 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.000 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8464 October 28, 2019
premier FFA leadership and achieve-
ment.
USMCA
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, this
morning I want to applaud the efforts
of my colleagues across the aisle on
their efforts and the United States
trade team for getting closer to ap-
proving the USMCA trade agreement. I
remain very optimistic that we can get
this passed in Congress and that we can
get this done this fall.
It is time to deliver the USMCA
agreement for Kansas. We have waited
over a year, and it is now time to pass
this agreement. This agreement will
mean thousands of jobs and hundreds
of millions of dollars of increased ex-
ports for Kansas.
Today I want to remind the Speaker
of the importance of the USMCA deal
and to please bring it to the floor
where we can vote on it and deliver for
America.
CHINA TRADE WAR
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I
want to applaud the administration’s
effort on the China trade war. I want to
applaud President Trump and his trade
team led by Ambassador Bob
Lighthizer for all their hard work. It
seems like just yesterday they signed
an agreement with Japan. But they
didn’t rest on their laurels and have
quickly moved on to the significance of
a Chinese trade agreement.
There seems to be more good news
coming out of the White House every
day, and we continue to encourage the
White House and the Chinese leader-
ship to develop this agreement and
allow more agriculture products into
China. We look forward to future en-
gagements with our Chinese counter-
parts in the near future as well and
continue to hope that we can work to-
ward a strong agreement yet this fall.
ABU BAKR AL-BAGHDADI MISSION
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I
would like to stop and congratulate
President Trump and the intelligence
officers and the U.S. Special Forces
who risked their lives in a daring raid
this weekend where the leader of ISIS
died by detonating a suicide vest kill-
ing himself and, very sadly, his three
children after he was cornered in a tun-
nel.
Mr. Speaker, I have to stop and ask
the question: What type of a person
would sacrifice his own children?
ISIS is among the most depraved or-
ganizations in history. They have com-
mitted genocidal mass murder and
enslaved, tortured, and beheaded inno-
cent civilians.
Americans can all be encouraged by
President Trump’s Syria policy. He has
destroyed ISIS, and he has kept Amer-
ican troops out of harm’s way. Presi-
dent Trump continues to support the
Kurds in eastern Syria where he sent a
military convoy on Saturday.
President Trump is keeping his
promises: leading American foreign
policy abroad through strength and
showing our enemies there is nowhere
for them to hide.
RURAL ENERGY
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, this
morning I want to stop and say thanks
to Mother Nature for all the blessings
she has given Kansas, in particular the
fact that we are an energy rich State.
She has given us oil, natural gas, eth-
anol, wind, and solar production.
We want to stop and applaud the ef-
forts of what the USDA and the De-
partment of Energy formally did last
week as they began working together
to facilitate energy-related invest-
ments in America’s rural communities
to encourage investments in our new
and improved rural energy production
and infrastructure.
Additional focus on cybersecurity
and grid improvements to secure our
rural energy networks are also hap-
pening. This work builds upon Presi-
dent Trump’s energy task force on ag-
riculture and rural prosperity.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the President
so much for making rural America
stronger today.
f
ABU BAKR AL-BAGHDADI IS NO
MORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. LAMALFA) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to highlight the tremendous
news we all received over the weekend
that the world’s most wanted terrorist
and leader of ISIS, Abu Bakr al-
Baghdadi, was killed in a U.S.-led raid
in northern Syria.
As the self-proclaimed leader of the
Islamic State, al-Baghdadi was directly
involved in countless atrocities and
demonstrated complete disregard for
human rights and human life. Geno-
cide, sex slavery, organized rape, mass
executions via crucifixion, stoning,
burning in cages or flogging—al-
Baghdadi’s brutality knew no limits.
The world is unquestionably a better
place without this purveyor of evil in-
habiting it at this time.
I commend U.S. Joint Special Oper-
ations Command’s 1st Special Forces
Operational Detachment-Delta, also
known as Delta Force, for the flawless
execution of their mission—and with-
out any U.S. casualties.
I also commend President Trump and
his administration for authorizing this
raid and bringing one of the most dan-
gerous men in the world to justice.
They are doing good work in the Syria
situation. This will go down as a sig-
nificant achievement in the war
against terror.
In the immediate aftermath of the
announcement becoming public, most
rational people from both sides of the
aisle celebrated this accomplishment—
but not all.
Mr. Speaker, you may have seen the
headlines from the Washington Post:
‘‘Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, an austere re-
ligious scholar at the helm of Islamic
State dies at 48.’’
Even in this age of questionable re-
porting, this headline and others like it
are reprehensible. In fact, his last cow-
ardly action on Earth was to detonate
a suicide vest as he was being hunted
down by some of our specialized mili-
tary dogs as well as our personnel.
Great work. In doing so, with his sui-
cide vest, he also took the lives of
three of his own children.
U.S. Special Operations Forces didn’t
kill just a noble religious scholar as
was headlined. They actually killed a
deranged, radicalized madman who was
directly responsible for the brutal mur-
ders of countless people: Americans
and his own country people from that
part of the world as well.
While the headline has since been
changed by the Washington Post, they
should be ashamed of themselves. We
don’t mourn the loss of terrorists in
the United States of America.
Now, this victory doesn’t mean the
war against terror is won by any
means, but it should send a loud, clear,
and unmistakable message to the rest
of the world that the United States
will root out evil wherever it is and
wherever it hides. Our enemies are not
safe, and they never will be.
We celebrate this evil’s removal from
the Earth embodied by al-Baghdadi.
Anyone who is willing to commit these
types of atrocities should understand
one thing: We will not rest as a Nation
and as a military until they are wiped
out from the face of the Earth.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 12
minutes p.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. KELLY of Illinois) at 2
p.m.
f
PRAYER
Reverend Dr. Derek W.H. Thomas,
First Presbyterian Church, Columbia,
South Carolina, offered the following
prayer:
Gracious Heavenly Father, I thank
You for Your guiding hand upon our
Nation for almost 21⁄2 centuries.
‘‘Blessed is the nation whose God is
the Lord.’’
Today, I humbly ask that You would
bless our Congressional leaders. Grant
them the wisdom of Solomon to ad-
dress the complex issues of govern-
ment, ensuring that the legitimate
needs of our citizens are faithfully rep-
resented. At a moment of tension and
division, I ask that Your will might be
done, ensuring the preservation of lib-
erty and justice for all.
I especially pray for those who pro-
tect our Nation and today may be in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.002 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8465
October 28, 2019
harm’s way. Set Your angels to guard
their every step. I thank You for those
who make it their life’s ambition to
protect the lives of the weak and help-
less. May this House ensure that right-
eousness exalts this Nation.
All this I ask in Jesus’ mighty name.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
JOYCE) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
WELCOMING DR. DEREK W.H.
THOMAS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the gentleman from South
Carolina (Mr. WILSON) is recognized for
1 minute.
There was no objection.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, the Reverend Dr.
Derek William Henry Thomas is the
senior pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church of Columbia, South Carolina,
and the Chancellor’s Professor of Sys-
tematic and Pastoral Theology at Re-
formed Theological Seminary.
A native of Wales in the United King-
dom, Dr. Thomas completed his min-
isterial training at Reformed Theo-
logical Seminary and received his
Ph.D. from the University of Wales,
Lampeter. He served as a pastor for 17
years in Belfast, Northern Ireland, be-
fore returning to the United States to
serve as the minister of teaching at
First Presbyterian Church in Jackson,
Mississippi. He was called to his
present position in 2013. He has written
or edited 25 books becoming editorial
director for the Alliance of Confessing
Evangelicals and the editor of its e-
zine, Reformation 21.
He and his wife, Rosemary, have been
married for 43 years, have two adult
children, and are naturalized citizens
of the United States.
The First Presbyterian Church was
the first church organized in the cap-
ital of South Carolina and will cele-
brate its semisestercentennial next
year. It is the largest congregation in
the Associate Reformed Presbyterian
Synod with 3,000 members.
The historic First Presbyterian
Churchyard was established in 1798
with Federal legislators interred along
with Ann Pamela Cunningham who
founded the Mount Vernon Ladies’ As-
sociation in 1853 saving President
George Washington’s home from col-
lapse. Also interred are President
Woodrow Wilson’s parents, Reverend
Joseph and Jessie Wilson.
f
CONGRATULATING THE NORTH
CAROLINA COURAGE
(Mr. PRICE of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to congratulate
the North Carolina Courage for their
second straight National Women’s Soc-
cer League Championship and their
third title in the past 4 years.
Their four-goal win was the largest
margin of victory in NWSL history.
The Triangle area that I represent in
North Carolina has truly embraced this
team with a record-setting crowd at-
tending Sunday’s match.
Now, this was really a team effort,
but I do want to give a special shout-
out to Coach Paul Riley, MVP Debinha
Miri, and the retiring great—Heather
O’Reilly. I must also mention the four
members from the Courage who also
led us to victory in the 2019 Women’s
World Cup: Crystal Dunn, Sam Mewis,
Abby Dahlkemper, and Jessica McDon-
ald.
Thank you for making North Caro-
lina proud. And congratulations again
to the North Carolina Courage.
f
SALUTING OUR TROOPS FOR
ELIMINATING ABU BAKR AL-
BAGHDADI
(Ms. FOXX of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, today, thanks to the relent-
less efforts of our military’s special op-
erations servicemembers, ISIS leader,
Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, is dead and our
world is a safer place. Saturday night’s
victory over this violent enemy is due
to our troops’ selfless sacrifices and su-
perior work with our Nation’s intel-
ligence operatives.
President Trump has shown that
under his command there is no safe
place for terrorists, and I thank him
and our troops for helping keep our
country free and safe.
Providing national security is the
number one job of the Federal Govern-
ment. Now it is time the House of Rep-
resentatives puts our troops first by
passing the Department of Defense Ap-
propriations Act for Fiscal Year 2020 to
support our military’s continued suc-
cess and ensure the safest possible out-
come in all its missions.
f
PAYING TRIBUTE TO DR.
PATRICIA SKINNER
(Mr. MCHENRY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MCHENRY. Madam Speaker, I
rise to pay tribute to a great education
leader in my district, Dr. Patricia
Skinner of Gaston College. She has
been president of Gaston College for 25
years, nearly half of the college’s exist-
ence.
Over the last two decades, the college
has seen tremendous progress. Dr.
Skinner facilitated the opening of two
new campuses in addition to the con-
struction of 11 new academic and ad-
ministrative buildings and recently
opened the Center for Advanced Manu-
facturing at the Dallas campus.
She has done a fantastic and phe-
nomenal job, and we wish her great
success in her retirement. Spending
more time with her two daughters and
her grandchildren will put her through
the paces as we well know.
We wish Dr. Skinner well in her re-
tirement.
f
NATIONAL FIRST RESPONDERS
DAY
(Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor the serv-
ice and the sacrifice of our Nation’s
first responders.
In Pennsylvania and around the en-
tire country, police officers, fire-
fighters, EMTs, and other emergency
personnel are willing to put their lives
on the line each and every day that
they report to duty. On today, National
First Responders Day, we thank these
men and women and their families for
serving our communities.
As a member of the Homeland Secu-
rity Committee, I am committed to en-
suring that first responders are well-
equipped to do the job that we have en-
trusted them to do. This month it was
my privilege to announce that FEMA,
through the Assistance to Firefighters
Grant Program, has awarded nearly $3
million to local fire companies and
first responders in the 13th District of
Pennsylvania. These funds will help
them to acquire much-needed equip-
ment and training.
When there is an emergency, we
know that our first responders will be
there, and Congress needs to be there
for them too.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 2:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 9 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1430
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 2 o’clock and
30 minutes p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.005 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8466 October 28, 2019
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, October 28, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on Oc-
tober 28, 2019, at 12:27 p.m.:
That the Senate passed S. 2065.
That the Senate passed S. 2107.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
DIGNITY IN AGING ACT OF 2019
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 4334) to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal years 2020 through 2024,
and for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4334
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Dignity in Aging Act of 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents of this Act is the following:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I—ENSURING COLLABORATION
AND PROMOTING INDEPENDENCE FOR
OLDER INDIVIDUALS
Sec. 101. Person-centered, trauma-informed
care.
Sec. 102. Vaccination.
Sec. 103. Functions of Assistant Secretary.
Sec. 104. Professional standards for nutri-
tion official under Assistant
Secretary.
Sec. 105. Interagency Coordinating Com-
mittee on Age-Friendly Com-
munities.
Sec. 106. Technical assistance on age-friend-
ly communities.
Sec. 107. Malnutrition.
Sec. 108. Coordination with resource centers.
Sec. 109. Arts education.
Sec. 110. Social determinants of health.
Sec. 111. Falls prevention and chronic dis-
ease self-management edu-
cation.
Sec. 112. Extension of RAISE Family Care-
givers Act.
Sec. 113. Support for socially-isolated older
Americans.
Sec. 114. Increased focus of Assistant Sec-
retary on health effects associ-
ated with social isolation.
Sec. 115. Advisory council on health effects
associated with social isolation.
Sec. 116. Supportive services and senior cen-
ters.
Sec. 117. Demonstration projects.
Sec. 118. Younger onset Alzheimer’s Disease.
Sec. 119. Priority for the senior community
service employment program.
Sec. 120. Direct care workforce.
Sec. 121. National resource center for older
individuals experiencing the
long-term and adverse con-
sequences of trauma.
Sec. 122. National Resource Center for
Women and Retirement.
Sec. 123. Definition.
Sec. 124. Review of reports.
Sec. 125. Area plans.
Sec. 126. Addressing chronic pain manage-
ment.
Sec. 127. Extension of the Supporting Grand-
parents Raising Grandchildren
Act.
Sec. 128. Screening for suicide risk.
Sec. 129. Traumatic brain injury.
Sec. 130. Addressing public health emer-
gencies and emerging health
threats.
Sec. 131. Prevention of sexually transmitted
diseases.
Sec. 132. Aging and Disability Resource Cen-
ter.
TITLE II—EMPOWERING THE AGING NET-
WORK TO MEET THE NEEDS OF OLDER
INDIVIDUALS
Sec. 201. National family caregiver support
program cap.
Sec. 202. Minimum funding level for State
administrative expenses.
Sec. 203. Culturally-appropriate, medically-
tailored meals.
Sec. 204. Business acumen provisions and
clarification regarding outside
funding for area agencies on
aging.
Sec. 205. Other practices.
Sec. 206. Caregiver assessments.
Sec. 207. Research and evaluation.
Sec. 208. Grant program for
multigenerational collabora-
tion.
TITLE III—STRENGTHENING
PROTECTIONS FOR OLDER INDIVIDUALS
Sec. 301. State Long-Term Care Ombudsman
Program minimum funding and
maintenance of effort.
Sec. 302. State long-term care volunteer om-
budsman representatives.
Sec. 303. Clarification regarding board and
care facilities.
Sec. 304. Report on legal hotlines.
Sec. 305. Community outreach.
Sec. 306. Principles for person-directed serv-
ices and supports during serious
illness.
TITLE IV—MEETING THE NEEDS OF
OLDER NATIVE AMERICANS
Sec. 401. Expanding supportive services for
Native American aging pro-
grams.
Sec. 402. Enhancing capacity to support Na-
tive American aging programs.
TITLE V—MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 501. Technical corrections.
Sec. 502. Authorization of appropriations;
uses of funds.
Sec. 503. Hold harmless formula.
TITLE I—ENSURING COLLABORATION
AND PROMOTING INDEPENDENCE FOR
OLDER INDIVIDUALS
SEC. 101. PERSON-CENTERED, TRAUMA-IN-
FORMED CARE.
Section 101(2) of the Older Americans Act
of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3001(2)) is amended by in-
serting ‘‘(including access to person-cen-
tered, trauma-informed care)’’ after
‘‘health’’.
SEC. 102. VACCINATION.
Section 102(14) of the Older Americans Act
of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3002(14)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (B) by inserting ‘‘im-
munization status,’’ after ‘‘oral health,’’, and
(2) in subparagraph (D) by inserting ‘‘infec-
tious disease, and vaccine preventable dis-
ease,’’ after ‘‘disease),’’.
SEC. 103. FUNCTIONS OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY.
(a) REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.— Section 202
of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3012) is amended—
(1) by amending subsection (a)(4) to read as
follows:
‘‘(4) administer the grants provided by this
Act but not approve an application sub-
mitted by an applicant for a grant for a pro-
gram for which such applicant previously re-
ceived a grant unless the Assistant Sec-
retary determines—
‘‘(A) the program for which such applica-
tion was submitted is operating effectively
to achieve its stated purpose; and
‘‘(B) such applicant complied with the as-
surances provided to the Assistant Secretary
with the application for such previous grant;
and’’, and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(h) The Assistant Secretary shall publish,
on an annual basis, a list of centers and dem-
onstration projects funded under each title
of the Act. The Assistant Secretary shall en-
sure that this information is also directly
provided to States and area agencies on
aging.’’.
(b) ADDRESSING THE NEEDS OF OLDER INDI-
VIDUALS IN DISASTERS.—Section 202(a) of the
Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3012(a)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (30) by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end,
(2) in paragraph (31) by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’, and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(32) provide technical assistance to and
share best practices with States and area
agencies on aging on how to collaborate and
coordinate activities and develop long-range
emergency preparedness plans with local and
State emergency response agencies, relief or-
ganizations, local and State governments,
federal agencies as appropriate, and any
other institutions that have responsibility
for disaster relief service delivery.’’.
SEC. 104. PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS FOR NU-
TRITION OFFICIAL UNDER ASSIST-
ANT SECRETARY.
Section 205(a)(2)(C)(ii) of the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3016(a)(2)(C)(ii) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(ii) be a registered dietitian or registered
dietitian nutritionist.’’.
SEC. 105. INTERAGENCY COORDINATING COM-
MITTEE ON AGE-FRIENDLY COMMU-
NITIES.
Section 203 of the Older Americans Act of
1965 (42 U.S.C. 3013) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (18) by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end,
(B) in subparagraph (19) by striking the pe-
riod at the end, and inserting ‘‘, and’’, and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(20) section 393D of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280b–1f), relating to
safety of seniors.’’, and
(2) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘Aging’’ and inserting ‘‘Age-
Friendly Communities’’, and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘to support the ability of
older individuals to age in place, including
through the provision of homelessness pre-
vention services, support the ability of older
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.008 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8467
October 28, 2019
individuals to access preventive health care,
promote age-friendly communities, and ad-
dress the ability of older individuals to ac-
cess long-term care supports, including ac-
cess to caregivers and home- and commu-
nity-based services’’ before the period at the
end,
(B) in paragraph (4) by inserting ‘‘, except
that the 1st term of a member appointed to
the Interagency Coordinating Committee on
Age-Friendly Communities shall begin not
later than 1 year after the effective date of
this exception’’ before the period at the end,
(C) in paragraph (5) by striking ‘‘once each
year’’ and inserting ‘‘semiannually’’,
(D) in paragraph (6)—
(i) in subparagraph (A)—
(I) in clause (iii) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end,
(II) in clause (iv) by adding ‘‘and’’ at the
end, and
(III) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(v) identifying best practices for con-
necting older individuals to services for
which they may be eligible;’’,
(ii) in subparagraph (B)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘transportation,’’ after
‘‘housing,’’ the 1st place it appears,
(II) in clause (i) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end,
(III) by amending clause (ii) to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(ii) innovations in technology applica-
tions (including assistive technology devices
and assistive technology services) that—
‘‘(I) promote safe and accessible inde-
pendent living environments; and
‘‘(II) give older individuals access to infor-
mation on available services or help in pro-
viding services to older individuals, includ-
ing information on transportation services
such as public transit, on-demand transpor-
tation services, volunteer-based transpor-
tation services, and other private transpor-
tation services; and’’, and
(IV) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(iii) transportation models that reduce
costs of transportation for older individuals
and provide the ability to schedule trips in
advance and on demand, as appropriate;’’,
(iii) in subparagraph (E)—
(I) by striking ‘‘nongovernmental experts
and organizations, including public health
interest and research groups and founda-
tions’’ and inserting ‘‘nongovernmental or-
ganizations, academic or research institu-
tions, community-based organizations, and
philanthropic organizations’’, and
(II) by striking ‘‘(F)’’ and inserting ‘‘(G)’’,
(iv) by redesignating subparagraphs (E),
(F), and (G) as subparagraphs (F), (G), and
(H), respectively,
(v) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the
following:
‘‘(E) work with the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, the National Insti-
tute on Aging, Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, the Housing and Urban
Development Office of Lead Hazard Control
and Healthy Homes, and other Federal agen-
cies as appropriate, to develop recommenda-
tions, in accordance with paragraph (1), to
reduce falls among older individuals that in-
corporate evidence-based falls prevention
programs and home modifications to reduce
and prevent falls;’’, and
(vi) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(9) In this subsection, the term ‘age-
friendly community’ means a community
that-—
‘‘(A) is taking steps—
‘‘(i) to include accessible housing, acces-
sible spaces and buildings, safe and secure
paths, variable route transportation serv-
ices, and programs and services designed to
maintain health and well-being;
‘‘(ii) to respect and include older individ-
uals in social opportunities, civic participa-
tion, volunteerism, and employment; and
‘‘(iii) to facilitate access to supportive
services for older individuals; and
‘‘(B) has a plan in place to meet local needs
for housing, transportation, civic participa-
tion, social connectedness, and accessible
spaces.’’ and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) Not later than 2 years after the effec-
tive date of this subsection, the Comptroller
General of the United States shall conduct a
study and issue a report that includes—
‘‘(1) an inventory of Federal programs, ad-
ministered by the Department of Health and
Human Services, the Department of Housing
and Urban Development, or any other Fed-
eral agency determined appropriate by the
Comptroller General, that support home as-
sessments and home modifications for older
individuals and individuals with disabilities,
‘‘(2) statistical data, for recent fiscal years,
on the number of older individuals and indi-
viduals with disabilities served by each Fed-
eral program described in paragraph (1) and
the approximate amount of Federal funding
invested in each such program,
‘‘(3) a demographic analysis of individuals
served by each such program for recent fiscal
years;
‘‘(4) an analysis of duplication and gaps in
populations supported by the Federal pro-
grams described in paragraph (1),
‘‘(5) what is known about the impact of the
Federal programs described in paragraph (1)
on health status and health outcomes in pop-
ulations supported by such programs,
‘‘(6) a review of Federal efforts to coordi-
nate Federal programs existing prior to the
effective date of this subsection that support
home assessments and home modifications
for older individuals and individuals with
disabilities and any considerations for im-
proving coordination, which may include an
indication of the Federal agency or depart-
ment that is best suited to coordinate such
Federal efforts, and
‘‘(7) information on the extent to which
consumer-friendly resources, such as a bro-
chure, are available through the National
Eldercare Locator Service established under
section 202(a)(21), are accessible to all area
agencies on aging, and contain information
on home assessments and home modifica-
tions for older individuals attempting to live
independently and safely in their homes and
for the caregivers of such individuals.’’.
SEC. 106. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ON AGE-
FRIENDLY COMMUNITIES.
Section 205(a)(2) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3016(a)(2)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as
subparagraph (D), and
(2) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the
following:
‘‘(C) The Assistant Secretary may provide
technical assistance, including through the
regional offices of the Administration, to
State agencies, area agencies on aging, local
government agencies, or leaders in age-
friendly communities (as defined in section
203(c)(9)) regarding—
‘‘(i) support for public and private entities
in building partnerships to promote such
age-friendly communities;
‘‘(ii) dissemination of, or consideration of
ways to implement, best practices and rec-
ommendations from the Interagency Coordi-
nating Committee on Age-Friendly Commu-
nities established under section 203(c); and
‘‘(iii) methods for managing and coordi-
nating existing programs to meet the needs
of growing age-friendly communities.’’.
SEC. 107. MALNUTRITION.
The Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
2011 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 102(14)(B) by inserting ‘‘(in-
cluding screening for malnutrition)’’ before
the semicolon at the end, and
(2) in section 330(1) by striking ‘‘and food
insecurity’’ and inserting ‘‘, food insecurity,
and malnutrition’’.
SEC. 108. COORDINATION WITH RESOURCE CEN-
TERS.
(a) AREA PLANS.—Section 306(a) of the
Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3026(a)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (16) by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end,
(2) in paragraph (17) by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’, and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(18) provide assurances that the area
agency on aging will collect data to deter-
mine—
‘‘(A) the services that are needed by older
individuals whose needs were the focus of all
centers funded under title IV in fiscal year
2019; and
‘‘(B) the effectiveness of the programs,
policies, and services provided by such area
agency on aging in assisting such individ-
uals; and
‘‘(19) provide assurances that the area
agency on aging will use outreach efforts
that will identify older individuals eligible
for assistance under this Act, with special
emphasis on those older individuals whose
needs were the focus of all centers funded
under title IV in fiscal year 2019.’’.
(b) STATE PLANS.—Section 307(a) of the
Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3027) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(31) The plan shall contain an assurance
that the State shall prepare and submit to
the Assistant Secretary annual reports that
describe—
‘‘(A) data collected to determine the serv-
ices that are needed by older individuals
whose needs were the focus of all centers
funded under title IV in fiscal year 2019;
‘‘(B) data collected to determine the effec-
tiveness of the programs, policies, and serv-
ices provided by area agencies on aging in as-
sisting such individuals; and,
‘‘(C) outreach efforts and other activities
carried out to satisfy the assurances de-
scribed in paragraphs (18) and (19) of section
306(a).’’.
SEC. 109. ARTS EDUCATION.
(a) PROGRAM DESIGN.—Section 202(a)(5) of
the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3012(a)(5)) is amended by inserting ‘‘cultural
experiences, activities and services, includ-
ing the arts,’’ after ‘‘education),’’.
(b) SUPPORTIVE SERVICES.—Section 321(a)(7)
of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3030d(a)(7)) is amended by inserting ‘‘cultural
experiences (including the arts),’’ after ‘‘art
therapy,’’.
SEC. 110. SOCIAL DETERMINANTS OF HEALTH.
Section 301(a)(1) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3021(a)(1)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (C) by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end,
(2) in subparagraph (D) by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’, and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(E) address the social determinants of
health of older individuals.’’.
SEC. 111. FALLS PREVENTION AND CHRONIC DIS-
EASE SELF-MANAGEMENT EDU-
CATION.
Section 411(a) of the Older Americans Act
of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3032(a)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (13) and
(14) as paragraphs (15) and (16), respectively,
and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (12) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(13) bringing to scale and sustaining evi-
dence-based falls prevention programs that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.003 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8468 October 28, 2019
will reduce the number of falls, fear of fall-
ing, and fall-related injuries in older individ-
uals and older individuals with disabilities;
‘‘(14) bringing to scale and sustaining evi-
dence-based chronic disease self-manage-
ment programs that empower older individ-
uals and older individuals with disabilities
to better manage their chronic conditions;’’.
SEC. 112. EXTENSION OF RAISE FAMILY CARE-
GIVERS ACT.
Section 6 of the RAISE Family Caregivers
Act (Public Law 115–119; 132 Stat. 27) is
amended by striking ‘‘3’’ and inserting ‘‘4’’.
SEC. 113. SUPPORT FOR SOCIALLY-ISOLATED
OLDER AMERICANS.
Section 102(14) of the Older Americans Act
of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3002(14)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (K) by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end,
(2) in subparagraph (L) by striking ‘‘(K)’’
and inserting ‘‘(L)’’,
(3) by redesignating subparagraph (L) as
subparagraph (M), and
(4) by inserting after subparagraph (K) the
following:
‘‘(L) screening for the prevention of nega-
tive health effects associated with social iso-
lation and coordination of supportive serv-
ices and health care to address negative
health effects associated with social isola-
tion; and’’.
SEC. 114. INCREASED FOCUS OF ASSISTANT SEC-
RETARY ON HEALTH EFFECTS ASSO-
CIATED WITH SOCIAL ISOLATION.
Section 202(a) of the Older Americans Act
of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3012(a)), as amended by sec-
tion 103, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (31) by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a semicolon,
(2) in paragraph (32) by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’, and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(33) develop objectives, priorities, and a
long-term plan for supporting State and
local efforts involving education about, pre-
vention of, detection of, and response to neg-
ative health effects associated with social
isolation among older individuals.’’.
SEC. 115. ADVISORY COUNCIL ON HEALTH EF-
FECTS ASSOCIATED WITH SOCIAL
ISOLATION.
Section 202 of the Older Americans Act of
1965 (42 U.S.C. 3012), as amended by section
103, is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(i)(1) The Assistant Secretary shall con-
vene an advisory council on negative health
effects associated with social isolation with
aging network stakeholders, including care-
givers, and select members in a manner that
ensures geographic diversity of the mem-
bers—
‘‘(A) to review and evaluate efforts to ad-
dress negative health effects associated with
social isolation among older individuals; and
‘‘(B) to identify challenges, solutions, and
best practices related to such efforts.
‘‘(2) The advisory council convened under
paragraph (1) shall—
‘‘(A) ensure consideration of consumer-di-
rected care models; and
‘‘(B) submit a report to Congress on its
findings.
‘‘(3) The Federal Advisory Committee Act
(5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply with respect
to the advisory council convened under para-
graph (1).’’.
SEC. 116. SUPPORTIVE SERVICES AND SENIOR
CENTERS.
Section 321(a) of the Older Americans Act
of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3030d(a)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (24) by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end,
(2) by redesignating paragraph (25) as para-
graph (26), and
(3) by inserting after paragraph (24) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(25) services that promote or support so-
cial connectedness and reduce negative
health effects associated with social isola-
tion; and’’.
SEC. 117. DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.
(a) DEMONSTRATIONS.—Section 411(a) of the
Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3032(a)), as amended by section 111, is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (15) by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end,
(2) by redesignating paragraph (16) as para-
graph (17), and
(3) by inserting after paragraph (15) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(16) projects that address negative health
effects associated with social isolation
among older adults; and’’.
(b) REPEAL.—Section 416 of the Older
Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3032e) is re-
pealed.
SEC. 118. YOUNGER ONSET ALZHEIMER’S DIS-
EASE.
(a) DEFINITION OF ‘‘FAMILY CAREGIVER’’.—
Section 302(3) of the Older Americans Act of
1965 (42 U.S.C. 3022(3)) is amended by insert-
ing ‘‘of any age’’ after ‘‘an individual’’.
(b) DEFINITION OF ‘‘RESIDENT’’.—Section
711(6) of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42
U.S.C. 3058(6)) is amended by inserting ‘‘of
any age’’ after ‘‘individual’’.
SEC. 119. PRIORITY FOR THE SENIOR COMMU-
NITY SERVICE EMPLOYMENT PRO-
GRAM.
(a) PRIORITY.—The Older Americans Act of
1965 (42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 503(a)(4)(C)—
(A) in clause (iii) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end,
(B) in clause (iv) by adding ‘‘and’’ at the
end, and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(v) eligible individuals who have been in-
carcerated within the last 5 years or are
under supervision following the release from
prison or jail within the last 5 years;’’,
(2) in section 514(e)(1) by inserting ‘‘older
individuals who have been incarcerated or
are under supervision following the release
from prison or jail,’’ after ‘‘need,’’, and
(3) in section 518—
(A) in subsection (a)(3)(B)(ii)—
(i) in clause (IV) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the
end,
(ii) in clause (V) by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’, and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(VI) have been incarcerated within the
last 5 years or are under supervision fol-
lowing the release from prison or jail within
the last 5 years.’’, and
(B) in subsection (b)(2)—
(i) in subparagraph (F) by striking ‘‘or’’ at
the end,
(ii) in subparagraph (G) by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’,
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(H) has been incarcerated or is under su-
pervision following the release from prison
or jail within the last 5 years.’’.
(b) TRANSITION PERIOD.—This section shall
take effect 1 year after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
SEC. 120. DIRECT CARE WORKFORCE.
(a) DEMONSTRATIONS.—Section 411(a) of the
Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3032(a)), as amended by sections 111 and 117,
is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (16) and
(17) as paragraphs (17) and (18), respectively,
and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (15) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(16) in coordination with the Secretary of
Labor, the demonstration of new strategies
for the recruitment, retention, or advance-
ment of direct care workers, and to solicit,
develop, and implement strategies—
‘‘(A) to reduce barriers to entry for a di-
verse and high-quality direct care workforce,
including providing wages, benefits, and ad-
vancement opportunities needed to attract
or retain direct care workers;
‘‘(B) to provide supportive services and ca-
reer planning for direct care workers; and
‘‘(C) to support the advancement of direct
care workers through education and work-
force development programs that include
necessary credential or licensing prepara-
tion, paid on-the-job training or work-based
learning, and appropriate safety training;’’.
(b) OLDER AMERICAN COMMUNITY SERVICE
EMPLOYMENT PROGRAM.—Section 502(e)(2)(B)
of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3056(e)(2)(B)) is amended—
(1) in clause (iii) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end,
(2) in clause (iv) by adding ‘‘and’’ at the
end, and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(v) attract, retain, or advance the direct
care workforce, in consultation with the As-
sistant Secretary, providing for wages and
benefits needed to reduce barriers to entry
for a diverse and high-quality direct care
workforce, supportive services and career
planning, and paid on-the-job training or
work-based learning, with appropriate safety
training;’’.
SEC. 121. NATIONAL RESOURCE CENTER FOR
OLDER INDIVIDUALS EXPERIENCING
THE LONG-TERM AND ADVERSE
CONSEQUENCES OF TRAUMA.
Section 411(a) of the Older Americans Act
of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3032(a), as amended by sec-
tions 111, 117, and 120, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (17) by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end,
(2) in paragraph (18) by striking the period
at the end, and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(19) the establishment and operation of a
national resource center that shall—
‘‘(A) provide training and technical assist-
ance to agencies in the aging network deliv-
ering services to older individuals experi-
encing the long-term and adverse con-
sequences of trauma;
‘‘(B) share best practices with the aging
network; and
‘‘(C) make subgrants to the agencies best
positioned to advance and improve the deliv-
ery of person-centered, trauma-informed
services for older individuals experiencing
the long-term and adverse consequences of
trauma.’’.
SEC. 122. NATIONAL RESOURCE CENTER FOR
WOMEN AND RETIREMENT.
Section 202 of the Older Americans Act of
1965 (42 U.S.C. 3012), as amended by sections
103 and 115, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(j)(1) The Assistant Secretary shall, di-
rectly or by grant or contract, operate the
National Resource Center for Women and Re-
tirement (in this subsection referred to as
the ‘Center’).
‘‘(2) The Center shall—
‘‘(A) provide basic financial management,
retirement planning, and other educational
tools that promote financial wellness and
help to identify and prevent fraud and elder
exploitation, and integrate these with infor-
mation on health and long-term care;
‘‘(B) annually disseminate a summary of
outreach provided, including work to provide
user-friendly consumer information and pub-
lic education materials;
‘‘(C) develop targeted outreach strategies;
‘‘(D) provide technical assistance to State
agencies and to other public and nonprofit
private agencies and organizations; and
‘‘(E) develop partnerships and collabora-
tions to address program objectives.’’.
SEC. 123. DEFINITION .
Section 102 of the Older Americans Act of
1965 (42 U.S.C. 3002) is amended—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.003 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8469
October 28, 2019
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (41)
through (54) as paragraphs (42) through (55),
and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (40) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(41) The term ‘person-centered, trauma-
informed’ when used with respect to services
means services provided through an aging
program that—
‘‘(A) use a holistic approach to providing
services;
‘‘(B) promote the dignity, strength and em-
powerment of victims of trauma; and
‘‘(C) incorporate research-based practices
based on knowledge about the role of trauma
in trauma victims’ lives.’’.
SEC. 124. REVIEW OF REPORTS.
Sec. 308(b) of the Older Americans Act of
1965 (42 U.S.C. 3028(b)) is amended by insert-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘(8) The Assistant Secretary shall review
the reports submitted under section
307(a)(31) and include aggregate data in the
report required by section 207(a), including
data on—
‘‘(A) the effectiveness of the programs,
policies, and services provided by area agen-
cies on aging in assisting individuals whose
needs were the focus of all centers funded
under title IV in fiscal year 2019; and,
‘‘(B) outreach efforts and other activities
carried out to satisfy the assurances de-
scribed in paragraphs (18) and (19) of section
306(a), to identify such older individuals and
their service needs.’’.
SEC. 125. AREA PLANS.
Section 306(a)(4) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3026(a)(4)) is amended in
subparagraph (B)(i)(VII) by inserting ‘‘, spe-
cifically including survivors of the Holo-
caust’’ after ‘‘placement’’.
SEC. 126. ADDRESSING CHRONIC PAIN MANAGE-
MENT.
Section 102(14)(D) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3002(14)) is amended by
inserting ‘‘chronic pain management,’’ after
‘‘substance abuse reduction,’’.
SEC. 127. EXTENSION OF THE SUPPORTING
GRANDPARENTS RAISING GRAND-
CHILDREN ACT.
Section 3(f) of the Supporting Grand-
parents Raising Grandchildren Act (Public
Law 115-196) is amended by striking ‘‘3’’ and
inserting ‘‘4’’.
SEC. 128. SCREENING FOR SUICIDE RISK.
Section 102(14)(G) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3002(14)(G)) is amended
by inserting ‘‘and screening for suicide risk’’
after ‘‘depression’’.
SEC. 129. TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY.
(a) Section 102 of the Older Americans Act
of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3002), as amended by section
113, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (14)—
(A) in paragraph (M) by striking ‘‘(L)’’ and
inserting ‘‘(M)’’,
(B) by redesignating subparagraphs (H)
through (M) as subparagraphs (I) through
(N), respectively,
(C) by inserting after subparagraph (G) the
following:
‘‘(H) screening for fall-related traumatic
brain injury; coordination of treatment, re-
habilitation, and related services; and refer-
ral services;’’, and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(56) The term ‘traumatic brain injury’ has
the meaning given to it in section 339B(d) of
the Public Health Service Act.’’.
(b) Section 321(a)(8) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.3030d(a)(8)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘screening and’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘screening, screening for negative health
effects associated with social isolation,’’,
and
(2) by striking ‘‘screening)’’ and inserting
‘‘screening, and traumatic brain injury
screening)’’.
(c) Section 411(a)(12) of the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3032(a)(12)) is
amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘dementia,’’ after ‘‘dys-
function,’’,
(2) by striking ‘‘and’’ the 2d place it ap-
pears, and
(3) by inserting ‘‘and traumatic brain in-
jury’’ before the semicolon at the end.
SEC. 130. ADDRESSING PUBLIC HEALTH EMER-
GENCIES AND EMERGING HEALTH
THREATS.
Section 102(14) of the Older Americans Act
of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3002(14)), as amended by sec-
tions 113 and 129, is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (M) by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end,
(2) in subparagraph (N) by striking ‘‘(M)’’
and inserting ‘‘(N)’’,
(3) by redesignating subparagraphs (K), (L),
(M), and (N) as subparagraphs (L), (M), (N),
and (O) respectively, and
(4) by inserting after subparagraph (J) the
following:
‘‘(K) responses to public health emer-
gencies and emerging health threats;’’.
SEC. 131. PREVENTION OF SEXUALLY TRANS-
MITTED DISEASES.
Section 102(14)(D) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3002(14)(D)), as amended
by section 102, is amended by inserting ‘‘pre-
vention of sexually transmitted disease,’’
after ‘‘disease)’’.
SEC. 132. AGING AND DISABILITY RESOURCE
CENTER.
Section 102(4) of the Older Americans Act
of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3002(4)) is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by inserting ‘‘, in collaboration with (as
appropriate) area agencies on aging, centers
for independent living (as described in part C
of title VII of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
(29 U.S.C. 796f et seq.)), and other aging or
disability entities’’ after ‘‘provides’’,
(2) in subparagraph (B)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘services, supports, and’’
after ‘‘plan for long-term’’, and
(B) by inserting ‘‘and choices’’ after ‘‘de-
sires’’; and
(3) in subparagraph (D) by striking ‘‘(29
U.S.C. 796f et seq.), and other community-
based entities,’’ and inserting ‘‘, and other
community-based entities, including other
aging or disability entities’’.
TITLE II—EMPOWERING THE AGING NET-
WORK TO MEET THE NEEDS OF OLDER
INDIVIDUALS
SEC. 201. NATIONAL FAMILY CAREGIVER SUP-
PORT PROGRAM CAP.
(a) FEDERAL SHARE.—Section 373(g)(2) of
the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3030s–1(g)(2)) is amended by striking subpara-
graph (C).
(b) MONITORING THE IMPACT OF THE ELIMI-
NATION OF THE CAP ON FUNDS FOR OLDER REL-
ATIVE CAREGIVERS.—
(1) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and annually thereafter, the Assistant Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on
Education and Labor of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Sen-
ate a report on the impact of the amendment
made by subsection (a) to eliminate the limi-
tation on funds that States may allocate to
provide support services to older relative
caregivers in the National Family Caregiver
Support Program established under part E of
title III of the Older Americans Act of 1965
(42 U.S.C. 3030s–3030s–2). Each such report
shall also be made available to the public.
(2) CONTENTS.—For purposes of reports re-
quired by paragraph (1), each State that re-
ceives an allotment under such National
Family Caregiver Support Program for fiscal
year 2020 or a subsequent fiscal year shall re-
port to the Assistant Secretary for the fiscal
year involved the amount of funds of the
total Federal and non-Federal share allot-
ment used by the State to provide support
services for caregiver support for older rel-
ative caregivers and family caregivers.
SEC. 202. MINIMUM FUNDING LEVEL FOR STATE
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.
Section 308(b)(2)(A) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3028(b)(2)(B)) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘$500,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$750,000’’.
SEC. 203. CULTURALLY-APPROPRIATE, MEDI-
CALLY-TAILORED MEALS.
Section 339(2)(A) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3939h(2)(A)) is amended
by inserting ‘‘, including cultural consider-
ations and preferences (including needs
based on religious, cultural, or ethnic re-
quirements) and medically tailored meals’’
before the comma at the end.
SEC. 204. BUSINESS ACUMEN PROVISIONS AND
CLARIFICATION REGARDING OUT-
SIDE FUNDING FOR AREA AGENCIES
ON AGING.
(a) ASSISTANCE RELATING TO GROWING AND
SUSTAINING CAPACITY.—Section 202(b)(9) of
the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3012(b)(9)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A) by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon at the end,
(2) in subparagraph (B) by inserting ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon at the end, and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) business acumen, capacity building,
organizational development, innovation, and
other methods of growing and sustaining the
capacity of the aging network to serve older
individuals and caregivers most effec-
tively;’’.
(b) CLARIFYING PARTNERSHIPS FOR AREA
AGENCIES ON AGING.—Section 306 of the Older
Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3026) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(g) Nothing in this Act shall restrict an
area agency on aging from providing services
not provided or authorized by this Act, in-
cluding through—
‘‘(1) contracts with health care payers;
‘‘(2) consumer private pay programs; or
‘‘(3) other arrangements with entities or
individuals that increase the availability of
home and community-based services and
supports in the planning and service area
supported by the area agency on aging.’’.
SEC. 205. OTHER PRACTICES.
Section 315 of the Older Americans Act of
1965 (42 U.S.C. 3030c-2) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(e) RESPONSE TO AREA AGENCIES ON
AGING.—Upon request from an area agency
on aging, the State shall make available any
policies or guidance pertaining to policies
under this section.’’.
SEC. 206. CAREGIVER ASSESSMENTS.
(a) DEFINITION OF CAREGIVER ASSESS-
MENT.—Section 372(a) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3030s(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) CAREGIVER ASSESSMENT.—The term
‘caregiver assessment’ means a systematic
process of gathering information about the
situation of a caregiver who voluntarily par-
ticipates in such process, which may include
contact through a home visit, the Internet,
telephone or teleconference, or in-person
interaction, to identify the caregiver’s spe-
cific needs, barriers, and existing supports as
identified by the caregiver that—
‘‘(A) provides the opportunity for the rec-
ognized caregiver to participate in such
process;
‘‘(B) requires direct contact with the care-
giver and is used to appropriately target and
tailor support services to the caregiver’s
unique needs; and
‘‘(C) includes reassessment of such specific
needs, barriers, and existing supports, in-
cluding to accommodate a significant change
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.003 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8470 October 28, 2019
in the caregiving situation, which shall
occur on a voluntary basis with the consent
of the caregiver.’’.
(b) USE OF CAREGIVER ASSESSMENTS.—Sec-
tion 373(b) of the Older Americans Act of 1965
(42 U.S.C. 3030s–1(b)) is amended by inserting
‘‘may be informed through the use of care-
giver assessments and’’ after ‘‘with,’’.
(c) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR CAREGIVER
ASSESSMENTS.—Section 373 of the Older
Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3030s–1) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(h) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR CAREGIVER
ASSESSMENTS.—Not later than 1 year after
the effective date of this subsection, the As-
sistant Secretary, in consultation with care-
givers, older individuals, individuals with a
disability who receive care from an older rel-
ative caregiver, the aging network, and
other experts and stakeholders, shall provide
technical assistance to promote and imple-
ment the use of caregiver assessments. Such
technical assistance shall include sharing
available tools and templates, comprehen-
sive assessment protocols, and best practices
concerning—
‘‘(1) conducting caregiver assessments and
reassessments;
‘‘(2) implementing such assessments that
are consistent across a planning and service
area; and
‘‘(3) implementing caregiver support serv-
ice plans, including referrals to and coordi-
nation of activities with relevant State and
local services.’’.
(d) REPORTING ON CAREGIVER ASSESS-
MENT.—Section 373(e) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3030s–1(e)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (3) by inserting ‘‘, includ-
ing caregiver assessments used in the
State,’’ after ‘‘mechanisms’’ the 1st place it
appears, and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) REPORT ON CAREGIVER ASSESSMENTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the effective date of this paragraph, the
Assistant Secretary shall issue a report on
the use of caregiver assessments by area
agencies on aging, entities contracting with
such agencies, and organizations. Such re-
port shall include—
‘‘(i) an analysis of the current use of care-
giver assessments, including a repository of
caregiver assessment tools or templates and
comprehensive assessment protocols;
‘‘(ii) using objective data, an analysis of
the impact of caregiver assessments on—
‘‘(I) family caregivers and older relative
caregivers; and
‘‘(II) the individuals to whom the care-
givers described in subclause (I) provide care;
‘‘(iii) an analysis of the impact of using
caregiver assessments on the aging network;
‘‘(iv) an analysis of how caregiver assess-
ments are being used to identify the specific
needs, barriers, and existing supports of fam-
ily caregivers and older relative caregivers;
‘‘(v) recommendations for using caregiver
assessments, including in rural or under-
served areas; and
‘‘(vi) feedback from State agencies and
area agencies on aging, particularly in rural
or underserved areas, on the implementation
of caregiver assessments.
‘‘(B) SUBMISSION.—Not later than 6 months
after the issuance of the report under sub-
paragraph (A), the Assistant Secretary shall
submit the report to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor of the House of Representa-
tives, the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and the
Special Committee on Aging of the Senate.’’.
SEC. 207. RESEARCH AND EVALUATION.
Section 201 of the Older Americans Act of
1965 (42 U.S.C. 3011) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(g)(1) The Assistant Secretary shall co-
ordinate the research and evaluation func-
tions of this Act under a National Research,
Demonstration, and Evaluation Center for
the Aging Network (in this subsection re-
ferred to as the ‘Center’), which shall be
headed by a director designated by the As-
sistant Secretary from individuals described
in paragraph (4).
‘‘(2) The purpose of the Center shall be—
‘‘(A) to coordinate research, research dis-
semination, evaluation, demonstration
projects, and related activities carried out
under this Act;
‘‘(B) to provide assessment of the programs
authorized under this Act; and
‘‘(C) to increase the repository of informa-
tion on evidence-based programs and inter-
ventions available to the aging network.
Such information shall be applicable to ex-
isting programs and help in the development
of new evidence-based programs and inter-
ventions.
‘‘(3) Activities of the Center shall include
conducting, promoting, coordinating, and
providing support for—
‘‘(A) research and evaluation activities
that support the objectives of this Act, in-
cluding—
‘‘(i) evaluation of new and existing pro-
grams and interventions authorized by this
Act; and
‘‘(ii) research on and assessment of the re-
lationship between programs and interven-
tions under this Act and the health out-
comes, social determinants of health, qual-
ity of life, health care savings (including to
the Medicare program under title XVIII of
the Social Security Act and the Medicaid
program under title XIX of such Act as prac-
ticable), and independence of individuals
served under this Act;
‘‘(B) demonstration projects that support
the objectives of the Act and activities to
bring effective demonstration projects to
scale with a prioritization of projects that
address the needs of underserved popu-
lations;
‘‘(C) outreach and dissemination of re-
search findings; and
‘‘(D) technical assistance related to the ac-
tivities described in this subparagraph.
‘‘(4) The director shall be an individual
with substantial knowledge of and experi-
ence in aging and health policy, and research
administration.
‘‘(5) Not later than October 1, 2020, and at
5-year intervals thereafter, the director shall
prepare and publish in the Federal Register
for public comment a draft of a 5-year plan
that—
‘‘(A) outlines priorities for research, re-
search dissemination, evaluation, and re-
lated activities;
‘‘(B) explains the basis for such priorities;
and
‘‘(C) describes how the plan will meet the
needs of underserved populations.
‘‘(6) The director shall coordinate research,
research dissemination, evaluation, and
demonstration projects, and related activi-
ties with appropriate agency program staff,
and, as appropriate, coordinate with other
Federal departments and agencies involved
in research in the field of aging.
‘‘(7) Not later than December 31, 2020, and
annually thereafter, the director shall pre-
pare, and submit to the Secretary, the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions of the Senate, the Special Com-
mittee on Aging of the Senate, and the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor of the House
of Representatives, a report on the activities
funded under this section and title IV.
‘‘(8) The director shall, as appropriate, con-
sult with experts on aging research and eval-
uation and aging network stakeholders on
the implementation of the activities de-
scribed under paragraph (3) of this sub-
section.
‘‘(9) The director shall coordinate all re-
search and evaluation authorities under this
Act.’’.
SEC. 208. GRANT PROGRAM FOR
MULTIGENERATIONAL COLLABORA-
TION.
Section 417 of the Older Americans Act of
1965 (42 U.S.C. 3032f) is amended—
(1) by amending subsection (a) to read as
follows:
‘‘(a) GRANTS AND CONTRACTS.—The Assist-
ant Secretary shall award grants to, and
enter into contracts with, eligible organiza-
tions to carry out projects—
‘‘(1) to provide opportunities for older indi-
viduals to participate in multigenerational
activities and civic engagement activities
that contribute to the health and wellness of
older individuals and individuals in younger
generations by developing—
‘‘(A) meaningful roles for participants;
‘‘(B) reciprocity in relationship building;
‘‘(C) reduced social isolation and improved
participant social connectedness;
‘‘(D) improved economic well-being for
older individuals;
‘‘(E) increased lifelong learning; or
‘‘(F) support for older relative caregivers
by—
‘‘(i) providing support for older relative
caregivers (as defined in section 372) raising
children (such as kinship navigator pro-
grams); or
‘‘(ii) involving volunteers who are older in-
dividuals who provide support and informa-
tion to families who have a child with a dis-
ability or chronic illness, or other families
in need of such family support;
‘‘(2) to coordinate multigenerational ac-
tivities and civic engagement activities, in-
cluding multigenerational nutrition and
meal service programs;
‘‘(3) to promote volunteerism, including
becoming a mentor to young people; and
‘‘(4) to facilitate development of and par-
ticipation in multigenerational activities
and civic engagement activities.’’,
(2) by amending subsection (b) to read as
follows:
‘‘(b) USE OF FUNDS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An eligible organization
shall use funds made available under a grant
awarded, or a contract entered into, under
this section to carry out a project described
in subsection (a).
‘‘(2) PROVISION OF PROJECTS THROUGH
GRANTEES.—In making grants under this sec-
tion, the Assistant Secretary shall ensure
that awards are made for the activities and
projects described in each of paragraphs (1)
and (2) of subsection (a).’’;
(3) in subsection (c)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by inserting ‘‘that serves individuals in
younger generations and older individuals’’
after ‘‘to carry out a project’’;
(B) in paragraph (1) by inserting ‘‘, intent
to carry out, or intent to partner with local
organizations or multiservice organizations
to carry out,’’ after ‘‘record of carrying out’’,
(C) in paragraph (3) by striking ‘‘; and’’ and
inserting a semicolon,
(D) in paragraph (4) by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’, and
(E) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(5) eligible organizations proposing
multigenerational activity projects that uti-
lize shared site programs, such as collocated
child care and long-term care facilities.’’,
(4) by amending subsection (e) to read as
follows:
‘‘(e) ELIGIBLE ORGANIZATIONS.—Organiza-
tions eligible to receive a grant or enter into
a contract under subsection (a) shall—
‘‘(1) be a State, an area agency on aging, or
an organization that provides opportunities
for older individuals to participate in activi-
ties described in such subsection; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.003 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8471
October 28, 2019
‘‘(2) have the capacity to conduct the co-
ordination, promotion, and facilitation de-
scribed in such subsection through the use of
multigenerational coordinators.’’,
(5) by striking subsection (g),
(6) in subsection (h)(2)(B)(i) by striking
‘‘individuals from the generations with older
individuals’’ and inserting ‘‘older individ-
uals’’,
(7) by redesignating subsections (b)
through (f) as subsections (c) through (g), re-
spectively, and
(8) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) GRANT PERIOD.—Each grant awarded
or contract made under subsection (a) shall
be to carry out projects for a period of not
less than 36 months.’’.
TITLE III—STRENGTHENING
PROTECTIONS FOR OLDER INDIVIDUALS
SEC. 301. STATE LONG-TERM CARE OMBUDSMAN
PROGRAM MINIMUM FUNDING AND
MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.
The Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3001 et seq.) is amended—
(1) by amending section 306(a)(9) to read as
follows:
‘‘(9) provide assurances that—
‘‘(A) the area agency on aging, in carrying
out the State Long-Term Care Ombudsman
program under section 307(a)(9), will expend
not less than the total amount of funds ap-
propriated under this Act and expended by
the agency in fiscal year 2019 in carrying out
such a program under this title; and
‘‘(B) funds made available to area agencies
on aging pursuant to section 712 shall be
used to supplement and not supplant other
Federal, State, and local funds expended to
support activities described in section 712.’’,
and
(2) by amending section 307(a)(9) to read as
follows:
‘‘(9) The plan shall provide assurances
that—
‘‘(A) the State agency will carry out,
through the Office of the State Long-Term
Care Ombudsman, a State Long-Term Care
Ombudsman program in accordance with sec-
tion 712 and this title, and will expend for
such purpose an amount that is not less than
an amount expended by the State agency
with funds received under this title for fiscal
year 2019, and an amount that is not less
than the amount expended by the State
agency with funds received under title VII
for fiscal year 2019; and
‘‘(B) funds made available to state agencies
pursuant to section 712 shall be used to sup-
plement and not supplant other Federal,
State, and local funds expended to support
activities described in section 712.’’.
SEC. 302. STATE LONG-TERM CARE VOLUNTEER
OMBUDSMAN REPRESENTATIVES.
Section 712(a)(5) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3058g(a)(5)) is amend-
ed—
(1) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as
subparagraph (E), and
(2) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the
following:
‘‘(D) VOLUNTEER OMBUDSMAN REPRESENTA-
TIVES.—An individual designated as a volun-
teer ombudsman representative may receive
financial support and recognition from the
Office of the State Long-Term Care Ombuds-
man Program for expenses incurred during
service.’’.
SEC. 303. CLARIFICATION REGARDING BOARD
AND CARE FACILITIES.
Section 102(35)(C) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3002(35)(C)) is amended
by striking ‘‘for purposes of sections
307(a)(12) and 712,’’.
SEC. 304. REPORT ON LEGAL HOTLINES.
Not later than 3 years after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Assistant Sec-
retary on Aging shall prepare and submit to
the Congress a report containing—
(1) information on which States or local-
ities operate senior legal hotlines,
(2) information on how such hotlines oper-
ated by States or localities are funded,
(3) information on the usefulness of senior
legal hotlines in the coordination and provi-
sion of legal assistance, and
(4) recommendations on additional actions
that should be taken related to senior legal
hotlines.
SEC. 305. COMMUNITY OUTREACH.
Section 721(b)(12) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3058i(b)(12)) is amend-
ed—
(1) in subparagraph (C) by inserting ‘‘com-
munity outreach and education,’’ after
‘‘technical assistance’’, and
(2) in subparagraph (F)—
(A) by striking ‘‘studying’’ and inserting
‘‘implementing’’, and
(B) by inserting ‘‘, programs, and mate-
rials’’ after ‘‘practices’’.
SEC. 306. PRINCIPLES FOR PERSON-DIRECTED
SERVICES AND SUPPORTS DURING
SERIOUS ILLNESS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—
(1) ADMINISTRATOR.—The term ‘‘Adminis-
trator’’ means the Administrator of the Ad-
ministration for Community Living.
(2) AREA AGENCY ON AGING; ASSISTANT SEC-
RETARY; STATE AGENCY.—The terms ‘‘area
agency on aging’’, ‘‘Assistant Secretary’’,
and ‘‘State agency’’ have the meanings given
the terms in section 102 of the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3002).
(3) COVERED AGENCY.—The term ‘‘covered
agency’’ means—
(A) a State agency or area agency on
aging; and
(B) a Federal agency other than the De-
partment of Health and Human Services, and
a unit of that Department other than the Ad-
ministration on Aging, that the Assistant
Secretary determines performs functions for
which the principles are relevant, and the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
(4) PRINCIPLES.—The term ‘‘principles’’
means the Principles for Person-directed
Services and Supports during Serious Illness,
issued by the Administration on September
1, 2017, or an updated set of such Principles.
(b) DISSEMINATION.—The Administrator
shall disseminate the principles to appro-
priate stakeholders within the aging net-
work, as determined by the Assistant Sec-
retary, and to covered agencies. The covered
agencies may use the principles in setting
priorities for service delivery and care plans
in programs carried out by the agencies.
(c) FEEDBACK.—The Administrator shall so-
licit, on an ongoing basis, feedback on the
principles from covered agencies, experts in
the fields of aging and dementia, and stake-
holders who provide or receive disability
services.
(d) REPORT.—Not less often than once, but
not more often than annually, during the 3
years after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Administrator shall prepare and
submit to Congress a report describing the
feedback received under subsection (c) and
indicating if any changes or updates are
needed to the principles.
TITLE IV—MEETING THE NEEDS OF
OLDER NATIVE AMERICANS
SEC. 401. EXPANDING SUPPORTIVE SERVICES
FOR NATIVE AMERICAN AGING PRO-
GRAMS.
Title VI of the Older Americans Act of 1965
(42 U.S.C. 3057 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in part D—
(A) by amending section 643 to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘SEC. 643. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
‘‘There are authorized to be appropriated
to carry out this title—
‘‘(1) for parts A and B, $38,524,324 for fiscal
year 2020, $40,835,783 for fiscal year 2021,
$43,285,930 for fiscal year 2022, $45,883,086 for
fiscal year 2023, and $48,636,071 for fiscal year
2024; and
‘‘(2) for part C subject to section 644,
$10,785,575 for fiscal year 2020, $11,432,710 for
fiscal year 2021, $12,118,672 for fiscal year
2022, $12,845,792 for fiscal year 2023, and
$13,616,540 for fiscal year 2024.’’, and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 644. FUNDING SET ASIDE.
‘‘Of the funds appropriated under section
643(1) for a fiscal year, not more than 5 per-
cent shall be made available to carry out
part D for such fiscal year if for such fiscal
year—
‘‘(1) the funds appropriated for parts A and
B are greater than the funds appropriated for
such parts for fiscal year 2019; and
‘‘(2) the Assistant Secretary makes avail-
able for parts A and B not less than the
amount of resources made available for fis-
cal year 2019.’’,
(2) by redesignating part D as part E, and
(3) by inserting after part C the following:
‘‘PART D—SUPPORTIVE SERVICES FOR
HEALTHY AGING AND INDEPENDENCE
‘‘SEC. 636. PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Assistant Secretary
shall carry out a competitive demonstration
program for making grants to tribal or Na-
tive Hawaiian organizations with applica-
tions approved under parts A and B, to pay
for the Federal share of carrying out pro-
grams, to enable the organizations to build
their capacity to provide a wider range of in-
home and community supportive services to
enable older individuals to maintain their
health and independence and to avoid long-
term care facility placement.
‘‘(b) SUPPORTIVE SERVICES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
supportive services described in subsection
(a) may include any of the activities de-
scribed in section 321(a).
‘‘(2) PRIORITY.—The Assistant Secretary, in
making grants under this section, shall give
priority to organizations that will use the
grant funds for supportive services described
in subsection (a) that are for in-home assist-
ance, transportation, information and refer-
ral, case management, health and wellness
programs, legal services, family caregiver
support services, and other services that di-
rectly support the independence of the older
individuals served.
‘‘(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed or interpreted
to prohibit the provision of supportive serv-
ices under part A or B.’’.
SEC. 402. ENHANCING CAPACITY TO SUPPORT NA-
TIVE AMERICAN AGING PROGRAMS.
Title II of the Older Americans Act of 1965
(42 U.S.C. 3011 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 201(c)(3)(H) by inserting ‘‘to
ensure adequate capacity to deliver the serv-
ices under such title, which technical assist-
ance programs may include program man-
agement, data development and use, basic
business skills, grant development, program
and service innovations, and staff profes-
sional development and certification’’ before
the semicolon at the end, and
(2) section 216 is amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘SEC. 216. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of carrying
out this Act, there are authorized to be ap-
propriated for administration, salaries, and
expenses of the Administration $44,042,171 for
fiscal year 2020, $46,684,701 for fiscal year
2021, $49,485,783 for fiscal year 2022, $52,454,930
for fiscal year 2023, and $55,602,226 for fiscal
year 2024.
‘‘(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
FOR PROGRAMS.—There are authorized to be
appropriated—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.003 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8472 October 28, 2019
‘‘(1) to carry out section 201(g), $20,000,000
for each of the fiscal years 2020 through 2024;
‘‘(2) to carry out section 202(a)(21) (relating
to the National Eldercare Locator Service),
$2,186,227 for fiscal year 2020, $2,317,401 for fis-
cal year 2021, $2,456,445 for fiscal year 2022,
$2,603,832 for fiscal year 2023, and $2,760,062
for fiscal year 2024;
‘‘(3) to carry out sections 215 and 202(j),
$1,992,460 for fiscal year 2020, $2,112,008 for fis-
cal year 2021, $2,238,728 for fiscal year 2022,
$2,373,052 for fiscal year 2023, and $2,515,435
for fiscal year 2024;
‘‘(4) to carry out section 202 (relating to
Elder Rights Support Activities under this
title), $1,375,011 for fiscal year 2020, $1,457,511
for fiscal year 2021, $1,544,962 for fiscal year
2022, $1,637,660 for fiscal year 2023, and
$1,735,919 for fiscal year 2024;
‘‘(5) to carry out section 202(b) (relating to
the Aging and Disability Resource Centers),
$8,708,043 for fiscal year 2020, $9,230,526 for fis-
cal year 2021, $9,784,357 for fiscal year 2022,
$10,371,419 for fiscal year 2023, and $10,993,704
for fiscal year 2024; and
‘‘(6) to carry out section 201(c)(3)(H) (relat-
ing to professional development and tech-
nical assistance for programs under title VI),
$500,000 for fiscal year 2021.’’.
TITLE V—MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 501. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
The Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3001 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 102(37)(A) by striking ‘‘para-
graph (5)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph (26)’’,
(2) in section 202(a)(23) by striking ‘‘sec-
tions 307(a)(18) and 731(b)(2)’’ and inserting
‘‘sections 307(a)(13) and 731’’,
(3) in section 202(e)(1)(A) by moving the
left margin of clause (i) 2 ems to the left,
(4) in sections 203(c)(7), 207(b)(2)(B), and
215(i) by striking ‘‘Committee on Education
and the Workforce’’ and inserting ‘‘Com-
mittee on Education and Labor’’,
(5) in section 207(b)(3)(A) by striking ‘‘Ad-
ministrator of the Health Care Finance Ad-
ministration’’ and inserting ‘‘Administrator
of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services’’,
(6) in section 304(a)(3)(C) by striking
‘‘term’’ and all that follows through ‘‘does’’,
and inserting ‘‘term ‘State’ does’’,
(7) in section 304(d)(1)(B) by striking ‘‘(ex-
cluding’’ and all that follows through
‘‘303(a)(3))’’,
(8) in section 306(a)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘the number of older indi-
viduals at risk for institutional placement
residing in such area,’’ after ‘‘areas) residing
in such area,’’ the last place it appears, and
(B) in paragraph (2) by striking ‘‘who are
victims of’’ and inserting ‘‘with’’,
(9) in section 339 by striking ‘‘Institute of
Medicine of the National Academy of
Sciences’’ and inserting ‘‘National Acad-
emies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medi-
cine’’,
(10) in section 611 by striking ‘‘(a)’’, and
(11) in section 614(c)(4) by striking ‘‘(a)(12)’’
and inserting ‘‘(a)(11)’’.
SEC. 502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS;
USES OF FUNDS.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS;
USES OF FUNDS.—Section 303 of the Older
Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3023) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 303. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS;
USES OF FUNDS.
‘‘(a)(1) There are authorized to be appro-
priated to carry out part B (relating to sup-
portive services) $413,011,586 for fiscal year
2020, $437,792,281 for fiscal year 2021,
$464,059,818 for fiscal year 2022, $491,903,407 for
fiscal year 2023, and $521,417,612 for fiscal
year 2024.
‘‘(2) Funds appropriated under paragraph
(1) shall be available to carry out section 712.
‘‘(b)(1) There are authorized to be appro-
priated to carry out subpart 1 of part C (re-
lating to congregate nutrition services)
$531,279,663 for fiscal year 2020, $563,156,443 for
fiscal year 2021, $596,945,830 for fiscal year
2022, $632,762,580 for fiscal year 2023, and
$670,728,334 for fiscal year 2024.
‘‘(2) There are authorized to be appro-
priated to carry out subpart 2 of part C (re-
lating to home delivered nutrition services)
$269,577,167 for fiscal year 2020, $285,751,797 for
fiscal year 2021, $302,896,905 for fiscal year
2022, $321,070,719 for fiscal year 2023, and
$340,334,963 for fiscal year 2024.
‘‘(c) Grants made under part B, and sub-
parts 1 and 2 of part C, of this title may be
used for paying part of the cost of—
‘‘(1) the administration of area plans by
area agencies on aging designated under sec-
tion 305(a)(2)(A), including the preparation of
area plans on aging consistent with section
306 and the evaluation of activities carried
out under such plans; and
‘‘(2) the development of comprehensive and
coordinated systems for supportive services,
congregate and home delivered nutrition
services under subparts 1 and 2 of part C, the
development and operation of multipurpose
senior centers, and the delivery of legal as-
sistance.
‘‘(d) There are authorized to be appro-
priated to carry out part D (relating to dis-
ease prevention and health promotion serv-
ices) $26,650,753 for fiscal year 2020, $28,249,798
for fiscal year 2021, $29,944,786 for fiscal year
2022, $31,741,473 for fiscal year 2023, and
$33,645,961 for fiscal year 2024.
‘‘(e) There are authorized to be appro-
priated to carry out part E (relating to fam-
ily caregiver support) $194,331,264 for fiscal
year 2020, $205,991,140 for fiscal year 2021,
$218,350,609 for fiscal year 2022, $231,451,645 for
fiscal year 2023, and $245,338,744 for fiscal
year 2024.’’.
(b) Section 311(e) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3030a(e)) is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘(e) There are authorized to be appro-
priated to carry out this section (other than
subsection (c)(1)) $171,682,200 for fiscal year
2020, $181,983,132 for fiscal year 2021,
$192,902,120 for fiscal year 2022, $204,476,247 for
fiscal year 2023, and $216,744,822 for fiscal
year 2024.’’.
(c) Section 411(b) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3032(b)) is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out—
‘‘(1) aging network support activities under
this section, $14,549,157 for fiscal year 2020,
$15,422,107 for fiscal year 2021, $16,347,433 for
fiscal year 2022, $17,328,279 for fiscal year
2023, and $18,367,976 for fiscal year 2024; and
‘‘(2) elder rights support activities under
this section, $15,650,667 for fiscal year 2020,
$16,589,707 for fiscal year 2021, $17,585,090 for
fiscal year 2022, $18,640,195 for fiscal year
2023, and $19,758,607 for fiscal year 2024.’’.
(d) Section 517(a) of the Older Americans
Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056o(a)) is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to
be appropriated to carry out this title
$429,020,486 for fiscal year 2020, $454,761,715 for
fiscal year 2021, $482,047,418 for fiscal year
2022, $510,970,263 for fiscal year 2023, and
$541,628,478 for fiscal year 2024.’’.
(e) Section 702 of the Older Americans Act
of 1965 (42 U.S.C.3058a) is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘SEC. 702. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
‘‘(a) OMBUDSMAN PROGRAM.—There are au-
thorized to be appropriated to carry out
chapter 2, $18,110,027 for fiscal year 2020,
$19,196,629 for fiscal year 2021, $20,348,427 for
fiscal year 2022, $21,569,332 for fiscal year
2023, and $22,863,492 for fiscal year 2024.
‘‘(b) OTHER PROGRAMS.—There are author-
ized to be appropriated to carry out chapters
3 and 4, $5,119,287 for fiscal year 2020,
$5,426,444 for fiscal year 2021, $5,752,031 for fis-
cal year 2022, $6,097,153 for fiscal year 2023,
and $6,462,982 for fiscal year 2024.’’.
SEC. 503. HOLD HARMLESS FORMULA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 304(a)(3)(D) of the
Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3024(a)(3)(D)) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(D)(i) In this subparagraph and paragraph
(5):
‘‘(I) The term ‘allot’ means allot under this
subsection from a sum appropriated under
section 303(a) or 303(b)(1), as the case may be.
‘‘(II) The term ‘covered fiscal year’ means
any of fiscal years 2020 through 2029.
‘‘(ii) If the sum appropriated under section
303(a) or 303(b)(1) for a particular fiscal year
is less than or equal to the sum appropriated
under section 303(a) or 303(b)(1), respectively,
for fiscal year 2019, amounts shall be allotted
to States from the sum appropriated for the
particular year in accordance with para-
graphs (1) and (2), and subparagraphs (A)
through (C) as applicable, but no State shall
be allotted an amount that is less than—
‘‘(I) for fiscal year 2020, 99.75 percent of the
corresponding sum appropriated for fiscal
year 2019;
‘‘(II) for fiscal year 2021, 99.50 percent of
that sum;
‘‘(III) for fiscal year 2022, 99.25 percent of
that sum;
‘‘(IV) for fiscal year 2023, 99.00 percent of
that sum;
‘‘(V) for fiscal year 2024, 98.75 percent of
that sum;
‘‘(VI) for fiscal year 2025, 98.50 percent of
that sum;
‘‘(VII) for fiscal year 2026, 98.25 percent of
that sum;
‘‘(VIII) for fiscal year 2027, 98.00 percent of
that sum;
‘‘(IX) for fiscal year 2028, 97.75 percent of
that sum;
‘‘(X) for fiscal year 2029, 97.50 percent of
that sum.
‘‘(iii) If the sum appropriated under section
303(a) or 303(b)(1) for a particular covered fis-
cal year is greater than the sum appro-
priated under section 303(a) or 303(b)(1), re-
spectively, for fiscal year 2019, the allot-
ments to States from the sum appropriated
for the particular year shall be calculated as
follows:
‘‘(I) From the portion equal to the cor-
responding sum appropriated for fiscal year
2019, amounts shall be allotted in accordance
with paragraphs (1) and (2), and subpara-
graphs (A) through (C) as applicable, but no
State shall be allotted an amount that is less
than the percentage specified in clause (ii),
for that particular year, of the corresponding
sum appropriated for fiscal year 2019.
‘‘(II) From the remainder, amounts shall
be allotted in accordance with paragraph (1),
subparagraphs (A) through (C) as applicable,
and paragraph (2) to the extent needed to
meet the requirements of those subpara-
graphs.’’.
(b) REPEAL.—Section 304(a)(3)(D) of the
Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3024(a)(3)(D)) is repealed effective October 1,
2029.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Oregon (Ms. BONAMICI) and the gentle-
woman from New York (Ms. STEFANIK)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Oregon.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.003 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8473
October 28, 2019
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
sert extraneous material on H.R. 4334,
the Dignity in Aging Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Oregon?
There was no objection.
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 4334, the Dignity in Aging Act
of 2019. I introduced this bipartisan bill
to reauthorize and update the Older
Americans Act, or OAA, which was
first passed in 1965 as part of President
Lyndon Johnson’s Great Society initia-
tive.
For more than 50 years, OAA pro-
grams have helped older Americans
maintain their independence and their
dignity.
Today, the Older Americans Act
serves about 11 million individuals
each year, with 3 million of those
Americans relying regularly on OAA
programs to meet their basic needs.
Unfortunately, funding for the Older
Americans Act lags far behind the in-
creasing demand for its services.
Although the population of Ameri-
cans over age 60 has grown more than
60 percent since 2001, OAA funding has
only grown by about 20 percent. Ad-
justing for inflation, this means that
OAA funding has declined by about 16
percent.
That erosion of funding exacerbates
the vast unmet need in my home State
of Oregon and across the country. It
means that every day in our commu-
nities there are seniors who do not
have the care they need and deserve.
I have heard and read too many sto-
ries about seniors rationing medication
or saving portions of their meal so they
can stretch their resources just a bit
further into the week. I will never for-
get the story I heard of an 80-year-old
woman in Oregon who was living in her
car. She did not know where to turn for
help.
Far too many Americans continue to
face poverty, discrimination, and bar-
riers to basic necessities. This is, in
part, because OAA programs are under-
funded and not fully supported.
According a 2015 GAO report, OAA
services do not reach 83 percent of the
low-income, older Americans who expe-
rience food insecurity. That is more
than four out of every five seniors in
need.
Today, we recommit to investing in
OAA programs because we have an ob-
ligation, a moral obligation, to take
care of those who cared for us.
The Dignity in Aging Act authorizes
record levels of funding for OAA pro-
grams, which will help expand access
to food assistance, transportation, and
other basic services that the growing
population of seniors needs to live
independently.
Under this bill, all OAA programs are
eligible to receive an immediate 7 per-
cent increase in funding and a 6 per-
cent increase each year thereafter.
This will result in a more than 35 per-
cent total increase in program funding
over the 5-year reauthorization pro-
gram, restoring OAA funding to pre-
recession baseline.
This is a good investment because
OAA programs help seniors stay in
their homes and out of costly facilities.
The bill also recognizes the need to
support family caregivers and direct-
care workers. It extends the RAISE
Family Caregivers Act, which helps de-
velop a national strategy to recognize
and support those caring for their
loved ones. My 91-year-old mother has
Alzheimer’s, so I know how important
caregivers are.
H.R. 4334 strengthens our focus on
combating social isolation, which
greatly increases the risk of stroke,
heart disease, dementia, and premature
death. It does so by incorporating so-
cial isolation screening into the health
and supportive services that seniors re-
ceive and by empowering local organi-
zations to evaluate solutions for social
isolation.
The Dignity in Aging Act also estab-
lishes a National Research, Demonstra-
tion, and Evaluation Center for the
Aging Network. This center will be re-
sponsible for conducting, promoting,
and coordinating research, including
evaluation and demonstration projects
and related technical assistance
through the act. The center will in-
crease the repository of information on
evidence-based programs and interven-
tions available to the Aging Network.
The bill improves economic oppor-
tunity and engagement for older Amer-
icans. It includes individuals who are
justice-involved as a priority popu-
lation for the Senior Community Serv-
ice Employment Program.
The bill also encourages the inclu-
sion of arts education and cultural ex-
periences, among other supportive
services, and further allows for dem-
onstration funds to be used for
multigenerational collaboration
projects that provide opportunities for
older individuals to participate in
multigenerational activities and civic
engagement activities.
Finally, this bipartisan legislation
seeks to improve services for histori-
cally underserved and marginalized in-
dividuals, including Native Americans,
Holocaust survivors, and LGBT sen-
iors. For example, it will create a Na-
tional Technical Assistance Center
dedicated to expanding the Aging Net-
work’s capacity to deliver person-cen-
tered, trauma-informed services that
meet the needs of aging trauma sur-
vivors.
The bill codifies the National Re-
source Center on Women and Retire-
ment to recognize the ongoing impor-
tance of their work, and it improves
data collection and outreach for all re-
source centers that focus on popu-
lations needing additional or unique
services.
This bill provides a rare bipartisan
opportunity to help millions of older
Americans across the country spend
less of their limited income on costly
care and, just as importantly, empow-
ers every individual to age with dig-
nity.
I would like to thank Education and
Labor Committee Chairman BOBBY
SCOTT and Ranking Member VIRGINIA
FOXX, as well as my coleads on the
bill—Representative ELISE STEFANIK;
Subcommittee Ranking Member Rep-
resentative JAMES COMER; and Rep-
resentatives SUSIE LEE, SUSAN WILD,
and DUSTY JOHNSON—for working to-
gether to bring this bipartisan bill to
the floor.
I also want to thank the hardworking
staff, especially Carrie Hughes and Ali
Hard from the committee; my personal
office staff: Jack Arriaga, Allison
Smith, and Rachael Bornstein; and the
staff on both sides of the aisle.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage my col-
leagues to join me in supporting this
legislation so we can better care for
those who have cared for us, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. STEFANIK. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
As the Representative of a district
that has one of the largest constitu-
encies of older Americans, I am proud
to rise as a coauthor of H.R. 4334, the
Dignity in Aging Act, bipartisan legis-
lation that reauthorizes the Older
Americans Act, which will directly
benefit the seniors in my district and
the seniors across the country.
Since 1965, this statute has provided
a wide range of social and nutrition
services for Americans aged 60 years or
older. In addition to well-known pro-
grams like Meals on Wheels, the Older
Americans Act supports services that
include nutrition programs providing
meals at senior centers, schools, and
churches; care to prevent abuse, ne-
glect, and exploitation of seniors; fam-
ily caregiver support systems; and
community service employment oppor-
tunities for older Americans.
This legislation is full of bipartisan
agreements and priorities, and during
times of stark political divide, it is en-
couraging to be here today with my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to
speak in support of the Dignity in
Aging Act, which is the product of a
diligent, congenial effort that em-
bodies the good that can come from
working across the aisle.
The bill before us today provides
States the flexibility to spend funds on
the issues impacting their senior com-
munities, which include support for
older Americans who have become
caregivers of younger relatives due to
the devastating toll of the opioid epi-
demic on our communities.
It enhances the cost effectiveness of
critical programs and ensures program
accountability and integrity by prohib-
iting the renewal of grants that do not
demonstrate effectiveness.
It assists formerly incarcerated,
older individuals in reentering the
workforce rather than re-offend and en-
sures that funded programs are evi-
dence based and effectively serving
seniors.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:02 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.010 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8474 October 28, 2019
Additionally, this bill includes long-
overdue updates from the Younger
Onset Alzheimer’s Act that I co-led
with my friend and colleague from New
York, Congresswoman KATHLEEN RICE.
Those under 60 with this heart-
breaking disease face unique hardships,
for themselves and for their families.
The current support structures for in-
dividuals with Alzheimer’s are focused
almost exclusively on seniors, leaving
the 200,000 Americans living with
younger onset Alzheimer’s without ac-
cess to these critical services.
This bill ensures individuals of any
age living with Alzheimer’s receive full
access to the services and support pro-
vided by the Older Americans Act.
I am also very proud to say that in-
cluded in this bill is language from an-
other bipartisan legislative proposal
that I coauthored encouraging the use
of caregiver assessments to identify
the needs of family caregivers.
This individualized approach to care
will ensure that both caregivers and
those who require assistance are pro-
vided tailored support to achieve the
best possible health outcomes.
There is another group of older
Americans in this country we must not
forget: the nearly 80,000 Holocaust sur-
vivors who live among us. As victims of
the very worst of humanity, Holocaust
survivors deserve devoted care and sup-
port to address the unimaginable, hor-
rific trauma they experienced. Sadly,
one-third of our country’s Holocaust
survivors live in poverty.
During the markup process in the
House Committee on Education and
Labor, I was honored to work with my
friend and colleague, Representative
BONAMICI, on a provision that works to
address the needs of aging Holocaust
survivors.
Institutional placement can present
a unique challenge to those who have
suffered the trauma of the Holocaust,
so it is critical that these individuals
are identified for the services nec-
essary to support independent living.
Our provision will ensure local out-
reach efforts place a special emphasis
on Holocaust survivors and others at
risk for institutional placement.
Additionally, the bill recognizes the
specific needs of this community by en-
suring that nutrition programs should
meet the religious, cultural, or ethnic
dietary requirements of all older Amer-
icans.
These men and women have survived
unconscionable suffering, yet many
continue to live with physical and emo-
tional scars from the horror they faced.
Together, we acknowledge their resil-
ience and seek to offer opportunities
that allow them to live healthy, dig-
nified, and independent lives through
their elder years.
Mr. Speaker, I am encouraged by the
bipartisan effort from the Education
and Labor Committee that has resulted
in the meaningful legislation before us
today. I strongly encourage all of my
colleagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 4334,
the Dignity in Aging Act. In doing so,
we reaffirm our commitment to our
Nation’s older generation.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Vir-
ginia (Mr. SCOTT), chairman of the
Education and Labor Committee.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I thank Representatives BONAMICI,
STEFANIK, LEE of Nevada, COMER, WILD,
and JOHNSON of South Dakota for their
work on this bipartisan bill.
I want to specifically recognize Ms.
BONAMICI, who serves as the chair of
the Subcommittee on Civil Rights and
Human Services for the Committee on
Education and Labor. Because of her
leadership, we are here today to con-
sider the Dignity in Aging Act and to
reauthorize the Older Americans Act
and, thereby, support and invest in our
Nation’s seniors.
b 1445
Congress first passed the Older Amer-
icans Act in 1965, along with Medicare,
Medicaid, and other civil rights legisla-
tion as part of President Johnson’s
great society.
Fifty-four years later, this act con-
tinues to support a range of programs
that now help 11 million aging Ameri-
cans retain their independence and
avoid costly institutional care. This in-
cludes 3 million Americans who regu-
larly use OAA services to address their
basic needs, especially food, transpor-
tation, and social interaction.
Unfortunately, the OAA funding has
not kept pace with inflation and the
growing population of aging Ameri-
cans. In 2010, the annual funding was
$42.95 per senior in today’s dollars.
Today, it is not $42.95, it is only $27.25.
This disinvestment has weakened the
OAA programs at a time when services
are in high demand. According to a 2015
GAO report, OAA services fail to reach
a vast majority of low-income Ameri-
cans who experience food insecurity.
The investments we make through
this legislation will not only allow us
to help seniors, but also help us save
money. OAA services allow older Amer-
icans to delay or altogether avoid cost-
lier care by promoting healthier behav-
iors and promoting critical supportive
services.
The bill funds OAA services at record
levels. It focuses on the vital role of
family caregivers, as well as direct
care workers, and allows those with
early onset Alzheimer’s to benefit from
the act.
As the number of older Americans
continues to increase, the Dignity in
Aging Act is an opportunity for us to
strengthen essential services that
allow millions of Americans across the
country to age independently and with
dignity. I urge my colleagues to sup-
port the Dignity in Aging Act of 2019.
Ms. STEFANIK. Mr. Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Ken-
tucky (Mr. COMER), the ranking mem-
ber of the Subcommittee on Civil
Rights and Human Services.
Mr. COMER. Mr. Speaker, today’s
life expectancy rate in our Nation is at
a historic high, and that is great news.
It also means we need to be doing all
we can to ensure that Americans have
access to quality, timely services
which allow them to live independently
in their homes as long as possible.
Since 1965, the Older Americans Act,
or OAA, has governed the organization
and delivery of services for senior citi-
zens throughout the country. With
more than 41 million Americans aged
65 and older, the social and nutritional
programs offered by OAA are critical
to helping them maintain independ-
ence.
The reach of this law is substantial
and covers many aspects of elder care.
In addition to well-known programs
like Meals on Wheels, OAA supports
services provided by more than 300
State organizations and approximately
20,000 local providers. Some of these
services include: Nutrition programs
providing meals at senior centers,
schools and churches; care to prevent
the abuse, neglect, and exploitation of
seniors; family caregiver support sys-
tems; and community service employ-
ment opportunities for older Ameri-
cans. These types of programs offer
valuable assistance for America’s sen-
iors, and we must ensure the law is
aging as well as the people it serves.
I am proud that our committee has
worked together to produce bipartisan,
effective legislation to support our Na-
tion’s seniors. Specifically, the Dignity
in Aging Act we are considering today
eliminates the arbitrary cap on the
percentage of funding Area Agencies on
Aging can use to provide services to
older caregivers raising younger rel-
atives. These provisions will be espe-
cially beneficial for my constituents in
Kentucky where, in the midst of the
opioid crisis, many older relatives have
taken on the responsibilities of raising
children whose parents are not present
or unable to take care of them.
As an original cosponsor of this legis-
lation, and the ranking member of the
subcommittee of jurisdiction, I appre-
ciate the work of Chairwoman
BONAMICI, and my colleagues on the
Committee on Education and Labor to
advance the Dignity in Aging Act of
2019.
I urge all my colleagues to support
this legislation to build upon the flexi-
ble policies found in the Older Ameri-
cans Act to promote consumer-driven,
independent living for our Nation’s el-
derly population.
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from Illi-
nois (Ms. UNDERWOOD), a member of the
Education and Labor Committee.
Ms. UNDERWOOD. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in strong support of H.R.
4334, the Dignity in Aging Act of 2019.
This is a strong bipartisan bill to reau-
thorize the Older Americans Act, which
provides vital services and support to
seniors and their families in our com-
munity.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:33 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.011 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8475
October 28, 2019
Reauthorization has been an impor-
tant local priority in my community in
northern Illinois.
During the August work period, I
held a roundtable on the issue at the
Fox Valley Older Adult Services with
local stakeholders. Their priorities for
reauthorization included increased
funding, transportation, legal services,
and support for seniors who age in
place, and their caregivers.
That is why I am so proud that the
bill that we are discussing today,
among other improvements: Increases
overall transportation program funding
by 35 percent; improves access to that
funding; increases availability and ac-
cessibility of meals for seniors; and
strengthens support for family care-
givers, including those caring for indi-
viduals with younger-onset Alzheimer’s
disease.
I am so proud that this bill includes
my bipartisan amendment to ensure
that programs that serve seniors are
ready to respond to outbreaks or other
public health emergencies.
I urge my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to support the Dignity in
Aging Act so that our seniors have the
services and support they need.
Ms. STEFANIK. Mr. Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Geor-
gia (Mr. ALLEN), the ranking member
on the Subcommittee on Early Child-
hood, Elementary, and Secondary Edu-
cation.
Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, 54 years
ago, our country made a commitment
to older Americans and their families.
In 1965, the Older Americans Act was
enacted to support a wide range of
services and programs for individuals
over the age of 60. By passing this leg-
islation, Congress made a promise to
help provide compassionate care to our
Nation’s most vulnerable adults who
are sometimes exploited, abused, or ne-
glected.
This legislation is vital to Georgia’s
seniors, and it supports many impor-
tant community-based services like
nutrition programs at churches and
family caregiver support.
I have seen the benefits of these pro-
grams firsthand, as I have had several
opportunities to deliver Meals on
Wheels to those who are unable to gro-
cery shop or prepare a warm meal for
themselves. What a privilege, as a
Member of Congress, to visit with these
older adults and talk to them about
their contribution to this great coun-
try as we delivered these meals.
This legislation upholds the dignity
of those who are aging, and it has re-
ceived bipartisan support for more
than 50 years. Today should be no dif-
ferent, as we have a responsibility to
uphold the promise that was made to
support our Nation’s seniors.
I urge my colleagues to, once again,
reauthorize the Older Americans Act.
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I yield
3 minutes to the gentlewoman from
New York (Miss RICE) who, along with
Representative STEFANIK, were lead
sponsors of the Younger Onset Alz-
heimer’s Act, which was included in
this legislation.
Miss RICE of New York. Mr. Speaker,
I rise today in support of H.R. 4334, the
Dignity in Aging Act of 2019, which in-
cludes key provisions from our bill, the
Younger Onset Alzheimer’s Act.
This critical legislation will amend
the Older Americans Act to ensure that
the hundreds of thousands of Ameri-
cans living with younger-onset Alz-
heimer’s disease receive the care and
support that they desperately need and
deserve.
The Older Americans Act was origi-
nally enacted in 1965 and supports a
range of home and community-based
programs for Americans age 60 and
older. These programs include nutri-
tional services like Meals on Wheels,
in-home and adult daycare, transpor-
tation services, legal aid, elder abuse
prevention, and vital assistance and
support for family caregivers. These
programs have become absolutely es-
sential to people living with Alz-
heimer’s disease and their families.
However, today 5 percent of Ameri-
cans living with Alzheimer’s disease,
approximately 250,000 people, are living
with younger-onset Alzheimer’s, a dis-
ease that has a particularly dev-
astating effect on families, with diag-
noses coming in individual’s thirties,
forties, or fifties, when they still have
young children, new homes and grow-
ing careers. They are in the prime of
their lives, and they don’t always have
the financial stability to leave the
workforce, which is usually inevitable.
And because of their young age, they
are currently ineligible for all OAA-
funded programs. Virtually overnight,
these families face unimaginable and
unforeseen financial and emotional
strain; and yet they are denied access
to critical OAA programs, programs
that we know work, and that so many
people with Alzheimer’s rely on every
day.
By including major provisions from
our bill, the Dignity in Aging Act will
ensure that younger Alzheimer’s pa-
tients and their families have access to
critical programs and support.
Before I conclude, Mr. Speaker, I
want to take a moment to acknowledge
two of my constituents who helped
bring this issue to my attention, Karen
Henley and Connie Wasserman.
Karen lost her husband, Mike, to
younger-onset Alzheimer’s in 2012. He
was diagnosed at the age of 36 and
passed away at 47.
Karen, Mike, and their two children,
Brandon and Courtney, experienced
firsthand how challenging it is for peo-
ple with this disease to find affordable
and quality care.
Connie Wasserman is the Associate
Executive Director of Social Services
of the Sid Jacobson JCC in East Hills,
New York. For years, she has played a
crucial role in supporting people and
families living with younger-onset Alz-
heimer’s right on Long Island, families
like the Henleys, who had nowhere to
go.
But because the government does not
fund Alzheimer’s programs for people
under the age of 60, Connie has had to
start her own. And right now, she relies
almost entirely on private funding.
Connie and Karen have become tire-
less advocates for those living with
younger-onset Alzheimer’s, and they
worked closely with my office on this
bill.
As fate should have it, today is Karen
and Mike Henley’s wedding anniver-
sary and, in honor of them, I ask all of
my colleagues to support the Dignity
in Aging Act of 2019.
Ms. STEFANIK. Mr. Speaker, I yield
4 minutes to the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. FOXX), the Repub-
lican leader of the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I would like to begin by
thanking Representative STEFANIK for
her leadership on this legislation be-
fore us today.
I rise today to speak in support of
H.R. 4334, the Dignity in Aging Act,
which will reauthorize the Older Amer-
icans Act through 2024.
For over 50 years, the Older Ameri-
cans Act, or OAA, has helped provide
social and nutrition services to older
Americans. With more than 40 million
Americans aged 65 and older, the pro-
grams and services offered by OAA are
helping them maintain independence,
and the data shows overwhelmingly
that these programs help older Ameri-
cans live higher-quality lives.
The reach of this law is substantial
and covers many aspects of elder care
beyond just well-known programs like
Meals on Wheels. OAA supports serv-
ices that include: Nutrition programs
providing meals at senior centers,
schools, and churches; care to prevent
the abuse, neglect, and exploitation of
seniors; family caregiver support sys-
tems; and services to help older Ameri-
cans move into employment.
This reauthorization is the product
of bipartisan hard work with Members
of the Education and Labor Committee
and shows the good that can come from
working together. Through productive
conversation and compromise, we have
successfully authorized grants for
States and Area Agencies on Aging,
AAAs, responsible for coordinating
local services for older individuals.
Specifically, the supportive services
program funds a wide range of social
services aimed at helping our older
population remain independent in their
own homes and communities. These
services include, case management,
adult daycare, and other numerous ac-
tivities of senior centers. Additionally,
States are required to devote a certain
portion of funding to access services,
home care, and legal assistance.
Furthermore, local agencies that im-
plement the law on the ground will re-
ceive additional clarity about cost-
sharing policies designed to increase
the cost-effectiveness of OAA pro-
grams.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:33 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.012 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8476 October 28, 2019
The bill also infuses additional ac-
countability over hardworking tax-
payer funds into these programs by re-
quiring programs to demonstrate they
met their stated goals prior to receiv-
ing a renewal of their grant.
In addition to funding for supportive
services and nutrition services, H.R.
4334 also provides for caregiver support.
The bill continues support for the Na-
tional Family Caregiver Support Pro-
gram, which provides funds to States
to support Americans caring for aging
family members.
b 1500
The program provides a range of
services, including information and as-
sistance to caregivers about available
services, counseling, organization of
support groups and caregiver edu-
cation, respite services to provide fam-
ilies temporary relief from care-giving
responsibilities, and supplemental
services to complement care provided
by other caregivers.
The bill also provides increased flexi-
bility to states by lifting a cap on the
percentage of funds that can go to
older relative caregivers, which will
allow for additional support for those
seniors who have taken responsibility
for caring for family members due to
the growing problem of opioids in our
Nation.
Mr. Speaker, I am very encouraged
by the teamwork and bipartisanship
that went into this bill. H.R. 4334, the
Dignity in Aging Act, reflects Con-
gress’ commitment to our Nation’s sen-
iors and builds upon the law’s flexible
policies, allowing older Americans to
age with health, dignity, and independ-
ence in the communities of their
choosing.
I would like, again, to thank Rep-
resentative STEFANIK for her diligent
work on this legislation and Chairman
SCOTT for his commitment to biparti-
sanship. I strongly urge all of my col-
leagues to support this reauthorization
that will benefit an entire generation
of older Americans.
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I yield
3 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Pennsylvania (Ms. WILD), a member of
the Education and Labor Committee
and a passionate advocate for suicide
prevention.
Ms. WILD. Mr. Speaker, back in 1965,
when President Lyndon Johnson signed
the Older Americans Act, Congress
codified into law an essential and uni-
versal truth, that each generation has
a responsibility to protect and support
those who raised and have cared for us.
These bonds of solidarity tie our soci-
ety together. We are stronger both as
individuals and as a Nation when we
hold each other up.
The objectives of the Older Ameri-
cans Act were to secure adequate in-
come in retirement, the best possible
physical and mental health services
without regard to economic status,
suitable housing and transportation,
restorative services, and employment
opportunities free of discrimination.
The programs funded through the
OAA remain immensely popular, but
funding has not kept pace. In 2010, OAA
funding was approximately $42.95 per
senior in today’s dollars. Today, it is
just $27.25 per senior.
Every time funding fails to meet de-
mand, the foundation of our Great So-
ciety is chipped away. Every time fund-
ing fails to meet demand, we run the
risk of malnutrition, unsafe living con-
ditions, and social isolation for our
seniors.
Fortunately, there is a solution, and
that solution is the legislation we are
voting on today. The Dignity in Aging
Act of 2019 is a bipartisan reauthoriza-
tion of the OAA, which gives all OAA
programs an immediate 7 percent in-
crease in fiscal year 2020 and a 6 per-
cent increase every year thereafter.
Reflecting the fact that this is a na-
tional priority, transcending dif-
ferences of party and politics, three of
my Republican colleagues—Represent-
ative DUSTY JOHNSON, Representative
STEFANIK, and Representative COMER—
worked alongside me as original co-
sponsors of this legislation, which was
introduced by my colleague Represent-
ative BONAMICI.
Critically, this legislation includes
provisions that will guide OAA’s nutri-
tion programs, like Meals on Wheels,
programs that meet an urgent need
across our country, and it includes lan-
guage that will benefit our seniors by
ensuring access to nutritional services
that are culturally sensitive and re-
flect the diverse needs of our commu-
nities.
I am particularly proud that this bill
updates the OAA by putting a greater
focus on countering social isolation,
empowering local organizations to de-
velop solutions that incorporate social
isolation screening into mental health
and supportive services that seniors re-
ceive.
That is why I proposed an amend-
ment unanimously adopted by the Edu-
cation and Labor Committee as part of
the underlying legislation to add
screening for suicide risk to the disease
prevention and health promotion serv-
ices offered under the OAA.
Older Americans are among the most
at-risk members of our population
when it comes to the suicide epidemic
across our Nation. We must stand with
these fellow Americans and offer them
our support as we all work to break the
stigma around suicide and mental
health, and as we all work to build a
society in which we prioritize mental
health just as much as physical health.
Ms. STEFANIK. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I include in the RECORD letters of
support from AARP supporting H.R.
4334, a letter from the Jewish Federa-
tion of North America supporting H.R.
4334, a letter from the Alzheimer’s As-
sociation and the Alzheimer’s Impact
Movement supporting the legislation, a
letter from 72 national organizations
representing older adults and care-
givers across the country, and a letter
from Meals on Wheels supporting H.R.
4334 and its attention to the impacts of
social isolation.
AARP,
October 25, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of our
nearly 38 million members and all older
Americans nationwide, AARP is pleased to
support H.R. 4334, the bipartisan Dignity in
Aging Act of 2019, legislation to reauthorize
the Older Americans Act (OAA). We urge you
to pass this legislation that will maintain
the critical service and information roles of
OAA programs and promote greater respon-
siveness to the needs of older Americans.
Too often, advancing age and increasing
frailty threaten the ability of older Ameri-
cans to live independently in their own
homes and communities. The fear of having
to leave family behind and enter a nursing
home weighs heavily on the minds of many.
According to AARP’s Home and Community
Preferences Survey, the vast majority of
adults age 50-plus—more than three out of
four people—want to remain in their commu-
nity as long as possible. Giving Americans
the support they need to live at home with
independence and dignity has always been a
bedrock goal of OAA, and it has been re-
markably successful.
For many older Americans, the key to
being able to stay in their own homes is the
dedication and commitment of family care-
givers. An estimated 40 million family care-
givers provide a staggering $470 billion annu-
ally in unpaid care to their loved ones—rang-
ing from bathing and dressing to paying bills
and transportation and assisting with med-
ical/nursing tasks. By supporting family
caregivers, we can help people stay at home,
helping to delay or prevent more costly nurs-
ing home care and unnecessary hospitaliza-
tions. Therefore, we are pleased the Dignity
in Aging Act addresses AARP’s family
caregiving priorities, including further
strengthening the National Family Care-
giver Support Program (NFCSP) and extend-
ing the bipartisan Recognize, Assist, Include,
Support, and Engage (RAISE) Family Care-
givers Act (P.L. 115–119).
Specifically, the legislation includes H.R.
3782, the bipartisan Supporting Family Care-
givers Act sponsored by Representatives
Andy Levin and Elise Stefanik. This provi-
sion will help make sure that more care-
givers can get their needs assessed when
they turn to NFCSP for support. Under-
standing the family caregiving situation is a
critical step in the process for linking the
family caregiver to the most appropriate
support services, as every family’s needs are
unique. Assessments of the caregiving situa-
tion provide information to help target serv-
ices more effectively. Better targeting of
support services can also help maintain the
health and well-being of the caregiver, sus-
tain their ability to provide care, produce
better outcomes for their loved ones, and
prevent or delay nursing home placement.
H.R. 4334 also provides more time for imple-
mentation of the RAISE Family Caregivers
Act. This will allow the Advisory Council to
do its work and find additional meaningful
solutions to better support the 40 million
family caregivers nationwide.
Importantly, H.R. 4334 also provides in-
creased funding levels for OAA programs.
People age 80 and older are among the most
likely to need assistance to live independ-
ently in their homes and communities. The
population of Americans in this age group is
projected to increase by 54 percent from 2019
to 2030. Additionally, over the next decade,
the number of family caregivers is not ex-
pected to keep up with the large number of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:33 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.014 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8477
October 28, 2019
older adults needing care, underscoring the
need for greater investments in OAA pro-
grams. Increased funding levels will assist
more older Americans and caregivers, thus
helping more older adults remain at home
and in better health, avoiding costlier serv-
ices.
We urge you to vote for the Dignity in
Aging Act. Prompt reauthorization of this
law will help ensure the sustainability of
OAA programs, and as a result, our loved
ones can continue to turn to these vital serv-
ices for their health and economic security
as they age. If you have any questions, feel
free to contact me.
Sincerely,
BILL SWEENEY,
Senior Vice President,
Government Affairs.
THE JEWISH FEDERATIONS OF
NORTH AMERICA,
Washington, DC, October 25, 2019.
Chairman ROBERT C. SCOTT,
House Education and Labor Committee,
Washington, DC.
Ranking Member VIRGINIA FOXX,
House Education and Labor Committee,
Washington, DC.
Chairwoman SUZANNE BONAMICI,
House Education and Labor Committee, Sub-
committee on Civil Rights and Human Serv-
ices,
Washington, DC.
Ranking Member JAMES R. COMER,
House Education and Labor Committee, Sub-
committee on Civil Rights and Human Serv-
ices,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN SCOTT, RANKING MEMBER
FOXX, CHAIRWOMAN BONAMICI AND RANKING
MEMBER COMER: The Jewish Federations of
North America (JFNA) is proud to endorse
H.R. 4334, the Dignity in Aging Act of 2019.
JFNA represents 146 local Jewish Federa-
tions, 300 Network communities, and thou-
sands of affiliated social service agencies
across the continent. Our movement protects
and enhances the well-being of Jews world-
wide through the values of tikkun olam (re-
pairing the world), tzedakah (charity and so-
cial justice) and torah (Jewish learning).
Jewish social services provide support for
more than one million vulnerable individuals
each year, Jewish and non-Jewish alike, with
our clients spanning the age range and in-
cluding approximately 100,000 older adults.
For more than 50 years, the Older Ameri-
cans Act (OAA) has been essential in devel-
oping, coordinating, and delivering home and
community-based services that help older
adults age with independence and dignity in
their homes and communities. Without these
crucial services, many individuals served by
OAA-funded programs in our network are at
significant risk of hunger, isolation, and los-
ing their ability to live with health and inde-
pendence.
The Jewish community is disproportion-
ately older than the general population in
this country with more than 25% of Amer-
ican Jews already over the age of 65, and the
fastest growing demographic in the Jewish
community is those over the age of 85. Jew-
ish family service agencies, Jewish voca-
tional service agencies and Jewish commu-
nity centers are a key component of the
country’s Aging Services Network and, in a
classic public-private partnership, provide
many services funded through the OAA, in-
cluding case management, transportation,
congregate and home-delivered meals, adult
day care, elder abuse prevention and inter-
vention, family caregiver support, home
care, legal conservatorship, and support
groups.
This year’s reauthorization process pro-
duced a bill that, if passed by the full House
of Representatives on Monday, will signifi-
cantly move the ball forward in how our
country and its Aging Services Network
treat and care for seniors. The very first pro-
vision of the Dignity in Aging Act incor-
porates ‘‘person-centered, trauma-informed
care’’ as a new objective of the Older Ameri-
cans Act. This principle, which is subse-
quently defined in the bill, represents a new
trend in service delivery that will positively
impact both clients and agencies. It incor-
porates a holistic approach to service provi-
sion that promotes the dignity, strength, and
empowerment of trauma victims by ref-
erencing knowledge about the role of trauma
in trauma victims’ lives. The inclusion of the
PCTI approach in this bill is indicative of
the forward and necessary progress embed-
ded in the Dignity in Aging Act.
The Dignity in Aging Act authorizes a
technical assistance center to serve older
adults experiencing the long-term and ad-
verse consequences of trauma, including but
not-limited to Holocaust survivors. Holo-
caust survivors are also specifically men-
tioned for the first time within the Older
Americans Act in the context of providing
additional outreach to older individuals ‘‘in-
cluding Holocaust survivors’’ who are at risk
of institutional placement. The bill also em-
phasizes cultural considerations (including
religious and ethnic requirements) in the
provision of congregate and home-delivered
meals.
This Older American Act reauthorization
incorporates new support for age-friendly
communities, a major new focus on social
isolation in older adults, recognition of the
emergency confronting our direct care work-
force, an updating of, recognition and sup-
port for multigenerational families, and as-
sistance to family caregivers with an exten-
sion of the RAISE Family Caregivers Act.
Each of these provisions and many others
contained in the bill will serve our nation
well. JFNA also commends the Education
and Labor Committee for supporting a five
year reauthorization period for the Older
Americans Act, which helps safeguard sup-
port and removes uncertainty for the grow-
ing aging population.
Finally, and very importantly, this bill
provides relatively robust funding increases
of 7% for FY 2020 and 6% for each of the next
four years.
While the Older American Act formally ex-
pired on September 30, 2019, this year’s proc-
ess to reauthorize it was the most efficient,
transparent, bipartisan and productive of the
five similar reauthorizations that I have
worked on going back to 1999. The result is a
reauthorization vehicle that is very worthy
of support, and JFNA looks forward to the
House of Representatives passage of the Dig-
nity in Aging Act and the enactment of the
reauthorization.
Sincerely,
STEPHAN O. KLINE,
Associate Vice President, Public Policy,
The Jewish Federations of North America.
ALZHEIMER’S IMPACT MOVEMENT,
October 25, 2019.
Hon. BOBBY SCOTT,
Chairman, House Education and Labor Com-
mittee, Washington DC.
Hon. VIRGINIA FOXX,
Ranking Member, House Education and Labor
Committee, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN SCOTT AND RANKING MEM-
BER FOXX: On behalf of the Alzheimer’s Asso-
ciation and the Alzheimer’s Impact Move-
ment (AIM), including our nationwide net-
work of advocates, thank you for your con-
tinued leadership on issues and legislation
important to Americans living with Alz-
heimer’s and other dementias and to their
caregivers. In addition, thank you for work-
ing together in a bipartisan manner to reau-
thorize the Older Americans Act (OAA). We
are proud to support the Dignity in Aging
Act of 2019 (H.R. 4334) and are pleased to
highlight several provisions that are critical
to persons living with dementia, their fami-
lies and their caregivers.
We strongly support the inclusion of lan-
guage codifying existing authority to pro-
vide services to individuals living with
younger-onset Alzheimer’s disease under the
National Family Caregiver Support Program
and the Long-Term Care Ombudsman Pro-
gram. We are very appreciative for the Com-
mittee’s inclusion of parts of the Younger-
Onset Alzheimer’s Disease Act (S. 901/H.R.
1903).
There are approximately 5.8 million Amer-
icans living with Alzheimer’s disease. The
vast majority of those individuals are over
the age of 65; however, approximately 200,000
Americans are under the age of 65 living with
younger-onset Alzheimer’s disease. Individ-
uals living with younger-onset face unique
challenges when it comes to family, work,
and finances. They may be parenting young
children at home, or may still be working as
the primary income provider for their fami-
lies. Due to their young age, they may have
more trouble receiving an accurate diag-
nosis, and even family and friends might
question their diagnosis. The stigma associ-
ated with younger-onset Alzheimer’s can
have a significant impact on their well-being
and quality of life.
Since 97 percent of all people living with
Alzheimer’s are age 65 or older, current Alz-
heimer’s support infrastructure focuses ex-
clusively on seniors. As a result, few sup-
portive services are available to those with
younger-onset. With other diseases—like
heart disease, diabetes, and even cancer—
many people living with them are middle-
aged and there is a large support structure
available to them. Those same support struc-
tures are not available for the individuals
living with younger-onset Alzheimer’s dis-
ease. The services provided under the OAA
are particularly helpful for individuals with
younger-onset Alzheimer’s disease and re-
lated dementias who need assistance with ac-
tivities of daily living.
The Younger-Onset Alzheimer’s Disease
Act is consistent with the National Plan to
Address Alzheimer’s Disease. The Advisory
Council on Alzheimer’s Research, Care, and
Services, which is responsible for updating
and implementing the Plan, has noted that
persons living with younger-onset Alz-
heimer’s face unique challenges in accessing
care. In the 2017 National Plan, the Advisory
Council recommended that Congress amend
the OAA to allow additional services to be
provided to younger adults living with de-
mentia.
The Alzheimer’s Association and AIM also
deeply appreciate the Committee’s extension
of the RAISE Family Caregivers Act from 3
to 4 years. We have been strong advocates for
the RAISE Family Caregivers Act since it
was introduced in Congress. There has been a
delay in the implementation of the Act and
the decision to extend the authorization al-
lows the Department of Health and Human
Services to better develop a national strat-
egy for education and training, longterm
services and supports, and financial stability
and security for caregivers.
For millions of Americans caring for indi-
viduals with Alzheimer’s and other demen-
tias the emotional, physical, and financial
costs can be overwhelming. Caregivers of
people with dementia report higher levels of
stress, depression, and worse health out-
comes than those providing care to individ-
uals without dementia. As a result, Alz-
heimer’s caregivers incurred $11.8 billion in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:56 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.004 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8478 October 28, 2019
additional health costs last year. We appre-
ciate the Committee prioritizing this impor-
tant program.
We also applaud the Committee’s strength-
ening of Caregiver Assessments. In 2018,
more than 16 million unpaid caregivers pro-
vided 18.5 billion hours of care valued at
nearly $234 billion and face the challenges
noted above. Eighty-three percent of the
help provided to older adults in the United
States comes from family members, friends,
or other unpaid caregivers. Nearly half of all
caregivers who provide help to older adults
do so for someone living with Alzheimer’s or
another dementia. Alzheimer’s takes a dev-
astating toll on caregivers. Compared with
caregivers of people without dementia, twice
as many caregivers of those with dementia
indicate substantial emotional, financial,
and physical difficulties. Of the total life-
time cost of caring for someone with demen-
tia, 70 percent is borne by families—either
through out-of-pocket health and longterm
care expenses or from the value of unpaid
care.
These dedicated caregivers would greatly
benefit from increased resources, training
and support to help them navigate the strain
of caregiving and improve their health and
quality of life. The proposed changes would
provide these caregivers much-needed re-
sources, increase the use of caregiver assess-
ments, and identify best practices relating to
the programs. These important actions will
enhance support for caregivers through
skills building, increased resources and in-
formation, respite care, counseling, and
other helpful benefits.
Finally, the Alzheimer’s Association and
AIM appreciate your commitment to sup-
porting individuals facing social isolation.
Social isolation is an issue within the aging
community as a whole, and particularly in
the Alzheimer’s and related dementias com-
munity. Studies have found that support
groups can decrease social isolation and in-
crease social support, the ability to accept
the diagnosis, cope with symptoms, improve
quality of life, and enhance family commu-
nication. (Alzheimer’s Association Dementia
Care Practice Recommendations, 2018). Sup-
port programs offered through the National
Family Caregiver Support Program can work
to decrease social isolation. We appreciate
the bill’s inclusion of an advisory council
dedicated to identifying the challenges, solu-
tions, and best practices to address social
isolation.
Again, thank you for your leadership in en-
suring OAA’s reauthorization, which will im-
prove the quality of care for people living
with Alzheimer’s.
Sincerely,
ROBERT EGGE,
Chief Public Policy Of-
ficer, Executive Vice
President, Govern-
ment Affairs, Alz-
heimer’s Association.
OCTOBER 28, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI, Speaker,
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY, Minority Leader,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. BOBBY SCOTT, Chairman,
Hon. VIRGINIA FOXX, Ranking Member,
Committee on Education and Labor, House of
Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI, LEADER MCCARTHY,
CHAIRMAN SCOTT AND RANKING MEMBER FOXX:
On behalf of the undersigned 72 national or-
ganizations with a vested interest in the
well-being of America’s older adults and
caregivers, we write to you today in support
of the House-proposed Dignity in Aging Act
(H.R. 4334) to reauthorize the Older Ameri-
cans Act (OAA). We urge Members of the
House to support this important five-year
OAA reauthorization. Reauthorization of
this critical Act, which expired on Sep-
tember 30, will ensure the sustainability of
vital OAA programs, as well as the health,
dignity, and independence of older Ameri-
cans and their caregivers.
The OAA is essential to developing, coordi-
nating, and delivering home and community-
based services that help older adults age
with independence and dignity. Many indi-
viduals served by OAA-funded programs are
at significant risk of hunger, isolation,
abuse, and losing their ability to live with
health and independence. OAA-supported
programs are provided to more than 11 mil-
lion seniors and their caregivers annually.
These vital supports include, but are not
limited to, home-delivered and congregate
nutrition services, in-home supportive serv-
ices, multipurpose senior centers, transpor-
tation, caregiver support, disease prevention
and health promotion, community service
employment, the long-term care ombudsman
program, and services to prevent the abuse,
neglect, and exploitation of older adults.
By keeping seniors healthy and in their
communities for more than 50 years, OAA
programs have delayed or prevented the need
for more expensive institutional care for
many older adults, which is often paid for
through Medicare or Medicaid. OAA services
can effectively save taxpayer, state, and fed-
eral dollars. In addition to helping older
adults age in place where they most often
want to be, OAA programs have improved
our country’s fiscal future and promoted effi-
ciencies within the health care system by
preventing unnecessary hospital stays, re-
ducing readmission rates, coordinating care,
and managing care transitions.
We appreciate that the Dignity in Aging
Act, H.R. 4334 builds upon the early bipar-
tisan Senate draft bill and incorporates a
number of important priorities articulated
by stakeholder organizations. Most impor-
tantly, the Dignity in Aging Act calls for
much-needed and necessary investments in
the OAA by increasing funding authoriza-
tions over the next five years—a top priority
of the undersigned organizations and the
most critical need of the Aging Services Net-
work authorized by the OAA.
Other priority areas include research inno-
vation and demonstrations, Native American
services, local planning and development,
supports for those suffering from dementias
and social isolation, legal services, nutri-
tion, in-home supportive services, disease
prevention and health promotion,
multigenerational collaboration, and family
caregiver supports. We appreciate that the
House proposal to reauthorize the OAA has
preserved the numerous ways in which this
Act works so well at the federal, state, and
local levels, on behalf of the older adults and
caregivers for whom it is a lifeline to dig-
nity, independence, health, safety, and eco-
nomic security.
Thank you for your commitment to this
important issue. The undersigned organiza-
tions represent a diverse set of stakeholders,
and we urge Members of the House to swiftly
advance this bill to reauthorize the Older
Americans Act.
Sincerely,
AARP, Academy of Geriatric Physical
Therapy, Advancing States, Aging and Vi-
sion Loss National Coalition, AHEPA Man-
agement Company (AMC), Alliance for Aging
Research, Alliance for Retired Americans,
Alliance to End Hunger, Allies for Independ-
ence, Alzheimer’s Association and the Alz-
heimer’s Impact Movement, American Asso-
ciation of Service Coordinators, American
Association on Health and Disability, Amer-
ican Geriatrics Society, American Hellenic
Educational Progressive Association (Order
of AHEPA), American Music Therapy Asso-
ciation.
American Physical Therapy Association,
American Public Health Association, Amer-
ican Society of Consultant Pharmacists
(ASCP), American Society on Aging, Blinded
Veterans Association, Bread for the World,
Caregiver Action Network, Caregiver Voices
United, Caring with Grace, LLC, CaringKind,
the Heart of Alzheimer’s Caregiving, Center
for Medicare Advocacy, Center to Advance
Palliative Care, Collective Action Lab, Con-
gregation of Our Lady of Charity of the Good
Shepherd, U.S. Provinces, Corporation for
Supportive Housing (CSH).
Daughters of Penelope, Dementia Alliance
International, Easterseals, Evangelical Lu-
theran Church in America, Feeding America,
Home Instead Senior Care, International As-
sociation for Indigenous Aging, Jewish Coun-
cil for Public Affairs, Justice in Aging,
Lakeshore Foundation, LeadingAge, Lu-
theran Services in America, MAZON: A Jew-
ish Response to Hunger, Meals on Wheels
America, Medicare Rights Center.
Mercy Housing, Inc., Michigan State Col-
lege of Human Medicine Alzheimer’s Alli-
ance, National Adult Protective Services As-
sociation, National Alliance for Caregiving,
National Asian Pacific Center on Aging
(NAPCA), National Association of Activity
Professionals, National Association of Area
Agencies on Aging (n4a), National Associa-
tion of Development Organizations (NADO),
National Association of Long-Term Care Om-
budsman Programs (NASOP), National Asso-
ciation of Nutrition and Aging Services Pro-
grams (NANASP), National Certification
Council for Activity Professionals, National
Council on Aging, National Health Council,
National Recreation and Park Association,
National Respite Coalition.
NETWORK Lobby, Network of Jewish
Human Service Agencies, Inc., PHI, RE-
SULTS, Society for the Blind, The Geronto-
logical Society of America, The Jewish Fed-
erations of North America, United Church of
Christ Justice and Witness Ministries,
United Spinal Association, USF Health Byrd
Alzheimer’s Institute, Village to Village
Network, VisionServe Alliance, Volunteers
of America.
MEALS ON WHEELS AMERICA,
Arlington, VA, October 28, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Minority Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. BOBBY SCOTT,
Chairman, Committee on Education & Labor,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
Hon. VIRGINIA FOXX,
Ranking Member, Committee on Education &
Labor, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI, LEADER MCCARTHY,
CHAIRMAN SCOTT AND RANKING MEMBER FOXX:
On behalf of Meals on Wheels America, the
nationwide network of community-based
senior nutrition programs and the individ-
uals they serve, we write to express our sup-
port for H.R. 4334, the Dignity in Aging Act
of 2019 and urge swift and bipartisan passage
in the House of Representatives. We com-
mend the efforts of the Education and Labor
Committee for receiving unanimous approval
following the September markup, as well as
the leadership of Subcommittee Chairwoman
Bonamici (D–OR) and Ranking Member
Comer (R–KY), and Representatives Stefanik
(R–NY), Lee (D–NV), Wild (D–PA) and John-
son (R–SD) in the introduction of this legis-
lation.
For over five decades, the OAA has been
the primary piece of federal legislation fo-
cused on establishing, coordinating and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:56 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.005 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8479
October 28, 2019
strengthening community and home-based
social and nutrition services for adults age 60
and older, their families and their care-
givers. OAA services like Meals on Wheels,
transportation, caregiver assistance, senior
employment and training and elder rights
protection are just some of the vital func-
tions the OAA delivers to more than 11 mil-
lion seniors annually.
As you and many of your colleagues know
firsthand, OAA services and supports, includ-
ing the three nutrition programs authorized
under Title III of the Act, help keep our na-
tion’s most vulnerable, isolated and food in-
secure seniors healthier and in their own
homes and communities longer. This in turn
delays and/or prevents altogether the need
for more expensive institutional care often
paid for through Medicare or Medicaid. OAA
programs are not only extremely cost-effec-
tive, but they are longstanding examples of
public-private partnerships that help save
taxpayers at the local, state and federal lev-
els in reduced healthcare expenditures.
We specifically want to recognize the ef-
fort undertaken to increase authorization of
appropriations in this legislation. With near-
ly half of our membership having a docu-
mented waiting list for nutrition services,
the 7% increase in authorization of funding
levels in Fiscal Year 2020—and 6% in subse-
quent years for all OAA programs over the
five-year reauthorization period—will sig-
nificantly improve the senior nutrition net-
work’s ability to address these gaps.
We also applaud the attention to and inclu-
sion of additional research and innovation
established through a new National Re-
search, Demonstration, and Evaluation Cen-
ter for aging services research and develop-
ment. We already know the difference that
OAA services and supports are making in the
lives of those served each day, and this addi-
tional support will help identify where the
greatest needs and opportunities are to
produce substantial savings to Medicare and
Medicaid and support our nation’s most at-
risk seniors.
Furthermore, we are grateful for the Dig-
nity in Aging Act’s acknowledgement of the
components of our network’s comprehensive
service model, particularly around the areas
of social isolation and loneliness; in-home
safety; screenings and prevention; and com-
munity connections and support. This net-
work has been addressing the social deter-
minants of health (SDOH) for seniors long
before it was a common definition used
among policymakers, advocates and
healthcare entities. Thanks to the foresight
of this body in establishing the OAA Nutri-
tion Program and its goals and purposes dec-
ades ago, the focus has transcended beyond
just the meal to include an emphasis on so-
cialization, overall health, well-being and
safety.
As with each reauthorization, we have a
new opportunity to evolve the OAA in ways
that will help it better meet the inherent
changes in our country’s aging population
and serve more of those in need. We are
pleased that H.R. 4334, the Dignity in Aging
Act of 2019, helps to address these shifts, and
as such, we urge your support and swift pas-
sage in the House of Representatives. Meals
on Wheels America and the network of sen-
ior nutrition programs across the county
have appreciated contributing feedback and
policy recommendations throughout this re-
authorization process and look forward to
continuing to work with you to build upon
the ongoing successes of the OAA.
Thank you again for your leadership, pub-
lic service and support for our nation’s older
adults.
Sincerely,
ELLIE HOLLANDER,
President and CEO.
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. STEFANIK. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
In closing, I would like to again
thank my good friend, the gentle-
woman from Oregon (Ms. BONAMICI),
and our colleagues and our staff on the
Education and Labor Committee for all
of their work on this bipartisan bill
that will help improve the lives of mil-
lions of seniors across the country.
As I said at the beginning of this de-
bate, my district is home to one of the
largest constituencies of older Ameri-
cans, so I could not be prouder to have
led the reauthorization of the Older
Americans Act, which will directly and
tangibly benefit the seniors in New
York’s 21st District and seniors across
the country.
Our Nation’s seniors deserve to age
with health, dignity, and independence
in the communities of their choosing.
Again, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time. I urge
all of my colleagues to support the bi-
partisan Dignity in Aging Act of 2019.
We know that the OAA programs—
Meals on Wheels, community meal pro-
grams, caregiver support, protection
against elder abuse—help older Ameri-
cans live their lives with dignity.
Once again, I thank Representatives
STEFANIK, LEE, COMER, WILD, and JOHN-
SON for joining me in leading this ef-
fort. Again, I thank Chairman SCOTT
and Ranking Member FOXX for sup-
porting this legislation as it moved
through the committee process. The bi-
partisan engagement and the involve-
ment of many committee members was
crucial to achieving this legislation to
successfully address many priorities
and incorporate the input of numerous
stakeholders.
I am sincerely grateful for the con-
tributions of all involved, and I am
eager to support the passage of this bill
today so we can better empower every
older American to age with dignity.
I urge my colleagues to support this
legislation, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Mr. Speaker, I urge
my colleagues to support the Dignity in Aging
Act. As vice chair of the House Education and
Labor Committee, I am honored to be a part
of this bipartisan effort to respond to the chal-
lenges facing a generation of aging Ameri-
cans.
I’m also proud that this package includes
my bill, the Supporting Family Caregivers Act,
which will facilitate the assessment of in-home
caregivers’ needs to determine what resources
would help them provide care. I want to thank
Congresswoman ELISE STEFANIK for partnering
on this bipartisan legislation to support in-
home caregivers.
Americans across the country rely on family
caregivers, whose contributions range from
bathing and dressing their loved ones, to co-
ordinating care across multiple health care
providers, to managing the payment of house-
hold and medical bills, and more. Each year,
this adds up to roughly $470 billion in unpaid
care provided by 40 million family caregivers.
I believe one of the best ways to improve
home health care is to protect the health and
wellbeing of the caregivers who provide it. The
Supporting Family Caregivers Act encourages
the use of assessments to identify caregivers’
individual needs and challenges, thereby al-
lowing services to be targeted to each person
more effectively and efficiently. Although re-
sources are currently available to family care-
givers, direct feedback through assessments
would improve the quality of the support they
receive.
I am so pleased to see this body take a
needed step towards more person- and family-
centered care. Again, I am grateful to my part-
ner on this bill, Congresswoman STEFANIK, as
well as Chairman SCOTT, Ranking Member
FOXX and Dignity in Aging Act sponsor
BONAMICI for their support.
I urge my colleagues to join me in sup-
porting America’s seniors, and to vote for the
Dignity in Aging Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Oregon (Ms.
BONAMICI) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4334, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
FULL UTILIZATION OF THE HAR-
BOR MAINTENANCE TRUST FUND
ACT
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2440) to provide for the use of
funds in the Harbor Maintenance Trust
Fund for the purposes for which the
funds were collected and to ensure that
funds credited to the Harbor Mainte-
nance Trust Fund are used to support
navigation, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2440
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Full Utiliza-
tion of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund
Act’’.
SEC. 2. USE OF HARBOR MAINTENANCE TRUST
FUND TO SUPPORT NAVIGATION.
Section 210 of the Water Resources Devel-
opment Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2238) is amend-
ed—
(1) in the section heading, by striking ‘‘AU-
THORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘FUNDING FOR NAVIGATION’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(g) ADJUSTMENTS TO DISCRETIONARY
SPENDING LIMITS.—Amounts made available
from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund
under this section or section 9505 of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 shall be made
available in accordance with section
251(b)(2)(H) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.’’.
SEC. 3. ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.
Section 330 of the Water Resources Devel-
opment Act of 1992 (26 U.S.C. 9505 note; 106
Stat. 4851) is amended—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:33 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.014 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8480 October 28, 2019
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘and annually thereafter,’’
and inserting ‘‘and annually thereafter con-
current with the submission of the Presi-
dent’s annual budget request to Congress,’’;
and
(B) by striking ‘‘Public Works and Trans-
portation’’ and inserting ‘‘Transportation
and Infrastructure’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)(1) by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(D) A description of the expected expendi-
tures from the trust fund to meet the needs
of navigation for the fiscal year of the budg-
et request.’’.
SEC. 4. HARBOR MAINTENANCE TRUST FUND DIS-
CRETIONARY SPENDING LIMIT AD-
JUSTMENT.
Section 251(b)(2) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2
U.S.C. 901(b)(2)) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(H) HARBOR MAINTENANCE TRUST FUND.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—If a bill or joint resolu-
tion making appropriations for a fiscal year
is enacted that specifies an amount for har-
bor maintenance activities, then the adjust-
ments for that fiscal year shall be the total
of such amount in that Act for such purpose
for that fiscal year, but may not exceed the
total amount within the Harbor Mainte-
nance Trust Fund under subsection (a) of
section 9505 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 on the last day of the fiscal year that is
two years prior to that fiscal year.
‘‘(ii) LIMITATION.—The adjustment under
clause (i) with respect to an amount made
available for harbor maintenance activities
may only be made if such amount—
‘‘(I) is derived solely from funds in such
Trust Fund; and
‘‘(II) is made available for expenditures de-
scribed under subsection (c) of such section
9505.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Or-
egon (Mr. DEFAZIO) and the gentleman
from Arkansas (Mr. WOMACK) each will
control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Oregon.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on H.R. 2440, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oregon?
There was no objection.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, this has been a long
time coming. Ronald Reagan worked
with the Democratic Congress and
passed a tax, a tax paid by every Amer-
ican, Americans in Arkansas and every
other State. Every time you buy an im-
ported good that came through a con-
tainer into our country, you pay a min-
uscule sales tax. Most Americans don’t
know that, but Congress is well aware
of it. And for decades, Congress has
been stealing that money.
The money was intended to maintain
our harbors and our ports, critical to a
maritime nation, critical to our com-
petitiveness in the world economy. And
our ports are in pathetic condition
around the Nation.
As we hear so much about our crum-
bling infrastructure, the surface bill
that I am working on—our wastewater,
our drinking water—we don’t have any
money. Well, here we have the money.
We actually have the money. We have
taken it from the American people.
They have paid that tax, but Congress
is stealing it and not applying it to
harbors.
This has been a bipartisan problem
over the years. It was Republicans and
Democrats who created this program,
and it has been Democratic administra-
tions and Republican administrations
that have been diverting these needed
funds.
On a daily basis, our largest ports
have only about 38 percent of their au-
thorized capacity. That means longer
lines of ships out to sea and more costs
in the movement of goods and particu-
larly for our exports.
I will note that this bill is strongly
supported by the Senator from Ala-
bama, Senator SHELBY, and Senator
SHELBY supports it because of the need
to export from his State. And guess
what? A bunch of those exports come
from the State of Arkansas.
Why would someone from that State
where half of their soybean crop is ex-
ported, where they have $3.1 billion in
agricultural exports, be opposed to
more efficiently moving their goods
out of the country and adding costs to
their farmers? I don’t understand.
But there are some people inland who
think ports don’t affect them. Ports af-
fect every single American every day.
Goods that are imported cost more
when our harbors aren’t dredged prop-
erly. And our trade deficit grows when
we are not competitive in the world
economy.
I started working on this 23 years ago
with a guy named Bud Shuster. His
son, Bill Shuster, succeeded him as
chairman of that committee over the
last 6 years before we took back over
the House. Twice we moved that bill
out of the committee unanimously, in-
cluding provisions to spend the harbor
maintenance tax on harbor mainte-
nance.
Now, that is a radical idea to some
people inside the beltway in Wash-
ington, D.C., people who just have their
focus right here in Washington. They
are not focused on the Nation, the
needs of the Nation, the needs of their
farmers, the needs of others who are
exporting and importing goods, about a
great maritime Nation that is falling
behind, that isn’t going to be ready to
accept the largest new ships because
we don’t have the money to dredge the
harbors.
Well, we have the money. $10 billion
of it is sitting over in the Treasury,
but there are those here who do not
want to spend that money on its lawful
purpose. They will say, oh, my God, it
breaks the budget caps. Really? The
budget caps?
The deficit this year was $397 billion
higher than when President Obama left
office. Now, who has been in charge the
last 2 years? Who wrote those budgets
to put us up to nearly $1 trillion? And
now we are going to say we can’t afford
to dredge our harbors, that we should
just shut them down.
Shut them down. Let them silt in.
Let the jetties decay. No, we can’t af-
ford it.
We can afford it. This is one place
with bipartisan support where we can
meet our infrastructure needs without
raising a new tax on the American peo-
ple.
This administration actually had
some concern about the underspending
of the tax and the diversion of the
money to the Treasury, so the Presi-
dent’s budget proposed to cut the tax
instead of dealing with our harbors and
saying let’s spend the money. But that
was written by Mick Mulvaney, the
President’s Chief of Staff, and OMB.
b 1515
The President himself, when I was in
a meeting with him discussing infra-
structure and I said, ‘‘We have $10 bil-
lion, Mr. President, sitting in the bank
ready to be spent on infrastructure
needs at our ports,’’ he turned to Larry
Kudlow and he says, ‘‘Spend that
money.’’
That is where the President stands.
That is where Senator SHELBY stands.
He has been trying to get it into any
and every bill moving into the Senate.
Every one of these budget deals, he is
trying to get it in.
So here today we are going to hear
arguments that we can’t afford to
spend the taxes that have been taken
from the American people on the pur-
pose for which it was intended. I do not
agree with that argument.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET,
Washington, DC, June 26, 2019.
Hon. PETER A. DEFAZIO,
Chairman, Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN DEFAZIO: I write to con-
firm our mutual understanding regarding
H.R. 2440, the Full Utilization of the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund Act. H.R. 2440 con-
tains provisions that fall within the rule X
jurisdiction of the Committee on the Budget.
However, the committee agrees to waive for-
mal consideration of the bill.
The Committee on the Budget takes this
action with the mutual understanding that
we do not waive any jurisdiction over the
subject matter contained in this or similar
legislation, and the committee will be appro-
priately consulted and involved as the bill or
similar legislation moves forward so that we
may address any remaining issues within our
jurisdiction. The committee also reserves
the right to seek appointment to any House-
Senate conference convened on this legisla-
tion or similar legislation and requests your
support if such a request is made.
In particular, the committee should be in-
volved in any discussions regarding creation
of adjustments to discretionary spending
limits and how they relate to the appro-
priate level for overall discretionary spend-
ing limits.
Finally, I would appreciate your response
to this letter confirming this understanding,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.009 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8481
October 28, 2019
and I ask that a copy of our exchange of let-
ters on this matter be included in the com-
mittee report on H.R. 2440 and in the Con-
gressional Record during floor consideration
of H.R. 2440.
Thank you for your attention to these
matters.
Sincerely,
JOHN YARMUTH,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COM-
MITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND
INFRASTRUCTURE,
Washington, DC, July 12, 2019.
Hon. JOHN YARMUTH,
Chairman, Committee on the Budget,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. YARMUTH: Thank you for your
letter regarding H.R. 2440, the Full Utiliza-
tion of the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund
Act. I appreciate your decision to waive for-
mal consideration of the bill.
I agree that the Committee on the Budget
has valid jurisdictional claims to certain
provisions in this important legislation, and
I further agree that by forgoing formal con-
sideration of the bill, the Committee on the
Budget is not waiving any jurisdiction over
any relevant subject matter. Additionally, I
will support the appointment of conferees
from the Committee on the Budget should a
House-Senate conference be convened on this
legislation. Finally, this exchange of letters
will be included in the Congressional Record
should the bill be considered on the floor.
Thank you again and I look forward to
continuing to work collaboratively with the
Committee on the Budget on this important
issue.
Sincerely,
PETER A. DEFAZIO,
Chair.
Mr. WOMACK. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to
the bill, to no surprise of my friend
from Oregon. Let me help him a little
bit with how I give opposition in con-
text.
As the ranking member of the Budget
Committee, Mr. Speaker, it is not pos-
sible for me just to consider how we are
going to get soybeans out of Arkansas
as the sole limiting factor on how we
budget. It is important, it is important
to my producers, but at the end of the
day, we are $23 trillion in debt. The def-
icit this year, to add to that $23 tril-
lion, is expected to approach $1 trillion.
H.R. 2440 would disrupt the recently en-
acted budget agreement.
Now, Mr. Speaker, you know that we
did months of negotiation on some
agreement to keep the government
open and operating. This body estab-
lished discretionary spending caps for
the next 2 years with the passage of the
bipartisan Budget Act of 2019. The bill
before us today breaches that law; it
increases that deficit.
So my question is: What was the
point of us going through that arduous
process of negotiating a bipartisan, bi-
cameral agreement with the President
so that, just 3 months later, we could
shoot a $10 billion hole in it?
This bill would increase the deficit
by up to $10 billion, which I believe is
unacceptable, given our fiscal condi-
tion.
According to the Congressional Budg-
et Office, the annual deficit this year
will be $1 trillion, adding to the al-
ready $23 trillion in debt.
Now, let me be clear. I acknowledge
that there are structural budgetary
challenges associated with the harbor
maintenance trust fund. They need to
be fixed. I think everyone agrees that
this is not fair that our shippers are re-
quired to pay a tax for harbor mainte-
nance but then the funds can’t be spent
on the very service they are supposed
to provide. That, we can agree on.
The work that is done on our ports is
critical to both American jobs and the
economy. We need to fix the flaws in
the maintenance trust fund to ensure
this essential work can be done; how-
ever, this bill is not the answer. It is
not a long-term solution. It is just a
quick fix.
I would like to work with Members
on both sides of the aisle to assess not
only the harbor maintenance trust
fund, but also all government trust
funds to evaluate their funding mecha-
nisms to ensure they make sense and
operate as intended.
H.R. 2440 is merely an effort to spend
more money without offsets, bust the
caps, resulting in an increase to the
deficit of about $10 billion.
There is also a determined opposition
in the United States Senate. Senate
Budget Committee Chairman ENZI and
I have released the following joint
statement in opposition to H.R. 2440. It
reads:
The bipartisan Budget Act of 2019, which
increased spending caps for fiscal years 2020
and 2021, was enacted less than 3 months ago.
Instead of prioritizing additional funding for
harbor maintenance activities under this
agreement, H.R. 2440 would further increase
spending by as much as $10 billion over the
next 2 years. This approach is irresponsible.
It would not provide a lasting solution. With
annual deficits in excess of $1 trillion for the
foreseeable future, Congress should be fo-
cused on reducing the deficit rather than in-
creasing it.
Mr. Speaker, I believe H.R. 2440 is fis-
cally irresponsible, and I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘no.’’
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, ‘‘So we can’t do it now.
We would like to do it another time.’’
I have heard that on the floor for the
last 6 years when we did the Water Re-
sources Development Act that came bi-
partisan and unanimous out of the
Transportation Committee when the
Republicans chaired it and this year
when I chaired it, bipartisan out of the
committee. ‘‘We will fix it later, be-
cause the technical Budget Act is going
to be violated and the caps are going to
be violated.’’
Well, I would observe that I believe
the gentleman was here and the gen-
tleman voted for the tax cuts. And in
that, when Obama left office, we had a
deficit of $587 billion. This year, it is
$984 billion due to, principally, the tax
cuts.
So waive all the rules when it comes
to cutting taxes, but when it comes to
taking a tax—and it isn’t just collected
from the shippers. Every American
pays more for every imported good
that comes through a port, with the in-
tention, in a bill signed by Ronald
Reagan, that that money would be
spent to maintain those harbors.
As I pointed out, this has been a bi-
partisan problem: Clinton, Bush,
Obama, all of them. And even the budg-
ets proposed by Mick Mulvaney in the
name of the President would further
cut harbor maintenance. So we would
continue to collect the tax from the
American people for harbor mainte-
nance and continue to divert it over
here.
How can you increase the deficit in
any rational world when you are spend-
ing taxes that have already been col-
lected, that are deposited in the Treas-
ury of the United States and can only
be spent on harbor maintenance, and
you are not spending them? That is in-
creasing the deficit? Seriously? Oh,
come on.
Now, I would note that, in a rare mo-
ment, we have a list here of 70 organi-
zations who support this legislation,
including the Association of General
Contractors of America, who are going
to key-vote this issue. They realize
how critical this is for the future of the
American economy, a great maritime
nation. The Association of General
Contractors will key-vote this issue.
We also have the National Grain and
Feed Association and a long list of oth-
ers on here who support this.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a list of supporters of H.R. 2440.
SUPPORTERS OF H.R. 2440, THE ‘‘FULL UTILI-
ZATION OF THE HARBOR MAINTENANCE TRUST
FUND ACT’’
(Updated: October 28, 2019)
American Association of Port Authorities,
American Association of State Highway,
Transportation Officials, American Great
Lakes Ports Association, American Petro-
leum Institute, American Society of Civil
Engineers, Associated General Contractors
of America, Association of Equipment Manu-
facturers, Big River Coalition, Boat U.S.,
Cedar Bayou (Texas) Navigation District, Co-
lumbia River Bar Pilots, Columbia River Pi-
lots, Columbia River Steamship Operators
Association, Dredging Contractors of Amer-
ica, Florida Ports Council, Great Lakes
Small Harbors Coalition, Gulf Ports Associa-
tion.
High Line Grain Growers, International
Liquid Terminals Association, Lake Car-
riers’ Association, National Association of
Manufacturers, National Association of Wa-
terfront Employers, National Conference of
State Legislatures, National Grain and Feed
Association, National Marine Manufacturers
Association, New York Shipping Association,
The Northwest Seaport Alliance (NWSA), Or-
egon Coastal Caucus, Oregon Public Ports
Association, Pacific Northwest Waterways
Association, Port of Alsea, OR; Port of Ar-
lington, OR; Port of Astoria, OR; Port of
Bandon, OR; Port of Brookings Harbor, OR.
Port of Cascade Locks, OR; Port of Chi-
nook, OR; Port of Cleveland, OH; Port of Co-
lumbia County, OR; Port of Coos Bay, OR;
Port of Corpus Christi, TX; Port of Depot
Bay, OR; Port of Garibaldi, OR; Port of Gold
Beach, OR; Port of Hood River, OR; Port of
Ilwaco, OR; Port Isabel-San Benito Naviga-
tion District, TX; Port of Kalama, WA; Port
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:56 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.010 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8482 October 28, 2019
of Long Beach, CA; Port of Los Angeles, CA;
Port of Morgan City, LA; Port of Morrow,
OR; Port of Nehalem, OR.
Port of Newport, OR; Port of Oakland, CA;
Port of Portland, OR; Port of Port Orford,
OR; Port of Seattle, WA; Port of Skagit, WA;
Port of Siuslaw, OR; Port of The Dalles, OR;
Port of Toledo, OR; Port of Umatilla, OR;
Port of Umpqua, OR; Port of Whitman Coun-
ty, WA; Portland Cement Association; Texas
Ports Association; Transportation Trades
Department, AFL–CIO, United Grain Co.,
WA; United States Maritime Alliance.
Mr. DEFAZIO. So, we can talk a lot
about making a major investment in
infrastructure. We have been hung up
on how are we going to pay for service,
transportation; 47,000 bridges need re-
pair or replacement; 40 percent of the
National Highway System is deterio-
rated to the point we have to rebuild
it, not just recoat it; and there is a $100
billion backlog in transit just to bring
it up to a state of good repair.
Those are just the needs in surface.
Then you go to wastewater. Then you
go to airports. Then you go to drinking
water.
But guess what? For every single one
of those things, we are going to have to
raise revenues one way or another.
But this one thing, the need to invest
in our harbors, we have the money. It
is sitting in the bank, and we are being
told, because of the budget caps, it
can’t be spent. Seriously?
The President himself said, when I
was there, ‘‘Spend that money.’’ So if
we get the bill through the House, if
they don’t derail it and it gets through
the Senate, the President will sign it,
plain and simple.
This is common sense outside the
beltway, but just budget weirdness in-
side.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WOMACK. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself 30 seconds.
Mr. Speaker, in our process, it is not
as simple as ‘‘just spend the money.’’ It
has to go through a process. We call it
the appropriations process, Mr. Speak-
er. You are well aware of it, having
served on the Appropriations Com-
mittee.
Here is the deal: The budget agree-
ment is indifferent as to the source of
that money, whether it is a harbor
maintenance trust fund issue or wheth-
er it is spending that is borrowed from
China or from the international bond
market. It is indifferent to it. It goes
through the same process.
This blows a $10 billion hole in the
deficit that is just 3 months away from
the agreement that we had 3 months
ago.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Utah (Mr. STEWART),
my friend and my colleague on the Ap-
propriations Committee.
Mr. STEWART. Mr. Speaker, I am
proud to rise with my friend, Mr.
WOMACK, to speak in opposition to H.R.
2440, the Full Utilization of the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund Act.
And why? Because that is a fair thing
to say. If you are going to impose
something, tell us why, because this
bill would break the spending caps that
this body agreed to just a few months
ago.
Now, this is laughably unacceptable.
I also need to point out, and I know
this is going to shock many people,
that the budget caps we agreed to were
hardly a model of fiscal discipline.
Quite the contrary, they were very lib-
eral, very generous.
Now, look, I have no problem with
this particular funding. I want to be
clear on that. I have no problem with
this particular funding. It may be a
very wise use of taxpayers’ money, but
if it is true, then have the courage to
stand up and say: ‘‘This is how we are
going to fund it. This is how we are
going to pay for it.’’
Adjustments to the agreed spending
caps adversely impact our ability to
monitor discretionary spending by al-
lowing funding to come outside of the
caps rather than within the base budg-
et.
Again, while it may be true that this
trust fund needs to be fixed, this is not
the way to address the issue, by adding
nearly $10 billion to what is a $22.5 tril-
lion deficit. For our children and our
grandchildren, this is not the way to
move forward.
Now, I want to mention one other
final and, experience would show, cer-
tainly, a reasonable fear, and that is
this: H.R. 2440 sets a dangerous prece-
dent for other programs looking to op-
erate also outside of the spending caps.
If we bust the caps for this, then what
other reasonable programs must we
fund outside of the budget caps?
Everyone has a special program they
want to fund. Everyone has got a sa-
cred cow that they want to fund. Sadly,
there are no more cows in Heaven, be-
cause all the sacred cows are down here
in Congress trying to find a way to be
funded.
We must remain defiant toward add-
ing onto our already existing and, as it
has been pointed out, including by our
friend in the opposition, existential
threat from runaway spending. I stand
in opposition to that.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, if the
gentleman from Utah (Mr. STEWART)
would just stand there for a moment, I
will yield him some time for a col-
loquy.
Name another program with a dedi-
cated tax where we are diverting the
money over to the Treasury instead of
spending it on a well-documented need.
Just name another program where we
do that.
Mr. STEWART. Mr. Speaker, I would
be happy to research that for the gen-
tleman. There may be some.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I reclaim
my time.
Mr. Speaker, if the gentleman would
research that. He can’t name one.
Mr. Speaker, we are taking this
money. It is a sales tax. The American
people are paying it. It is like some of
you live in sales tax States. I don’t live
in a sales tax State, but my people are
still paying this sales tax on imported
goods, and they expect the money, as
Ronald Reagan signed that bill, to be
spent on maintaining our harbors. And
I can list the needs in my harbors that
aren’t being met today because the
Corps of Engineers are underfunded.
But we are hearing, ‘‘We can’t do this.’’
And the other argument here is: This
busts the caps and it breaks the agree-
ment.
No. All of this money which has been
taken from the American people and
deposited in the Treasury is subject to
appropriation. So it gives discretion to
the appropriators to determine wheth-
er or not we will finally honor our com-
pact with the American people and
spend the harbor maintenance tax on
harbor maintenance, not on illusory
deficit reduction.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WOMACK. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. MEADOWS).
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I will
be glad to address the gentleman’s
question.
There are a number of different areas
where we actually collect money. The
LWCF is one of those. $900 million a
year comes from oil producers. It is
supposed to be spent on something, but
it goes back to the Treasury.
So if we went into a colloquy back
and forth, I will be glad to do that with
the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. DEFA-
ZIO).
That being said, Mr. Speaker, we
have had this debate. The ranking
member is exactly right. This is the
only place you can exceed an unlimited
budget by $10 billion.
We have agreed to something, and all
of a sudden what happens is now they
start to push back. They start to push
back because you know what? This pri-
ority wasn’t included in the budget
caps deal.
It is amazing that my colleague op-
posite now is, all of a sudden, becoming
a fiscal conservative. So I will give him
an honorary invitation to join the
Freedom Caucus.
b 1530
It is amazing how fiscally conserv-
ative some of the Members opposite get
when it comes to some special project
that they want to overlook.
Mr. Speaker, I would just say, the
truth here today is that not only do we
need to be fiscally responsible for the
American taxpayer, but we need to
start showing some fiscal restraints
here in this body. Eventually, you run
out of other people’s money, and I
think that day is now.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I always
enjoy hearing from the gentleman. He
is right that we are underspending the
Land and Water Conservation Fund,
but it is not a tax assessed individually
on the American people as a sales tax.
It is fees paid by the oil and gas indus-
try, which you can say: Oh, they are
having to pay a fee to use Federal land,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:56 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.011 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8483
October 28, 2019
to take and extract a resource. There-
fore, it is not quite the same thing.
Mr. MEADOWS. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. DEFAZIO. I yield to the gen-
tleman from North Carolina.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, if the
gentleman from Oregon is suggesting
that we do not pay for that fee in the
ultimate gas tax that we—you know,
he is the chairman of the Transpor-
tation Committee. As anybody knows,
he would know that it is embedded in
part of that.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, reclaim-
ing my time, the Federal gas and diesel
tax hasn’t changed since 1993, so the
American people are not paying for
that. The price of oil goes up and down
according to speculation and wars and
conflicts and all sorts of other things.
But the fact is that is a fee paid by the
oil companies that might or might not
come out of their profits and goes into
a fund, which is being underspent.
To be consistent, I fully support and
have supported fully expending the
Land and Water Conservation Fund on
a permanent program, on its intended
and legislated purpose, and that is the
same thing here.
But this is, again, a little different.
Anybody, today, who bought a good
that came into a port in the United
States of America in a container is
paying a very small sales tax incre-
ment on that good on a bill signed by
Ronald Reagan. That money is sup-
posed to be spent to maintain our har-
bors.
Our harbors are silting in. Jetties are
falling apart. We can’t accommodate,
in some harbors that want to accom-
modate them, the new largest class of
ships in the world.
The most efficient way to move
goods is on water. The least carbon-in-
tensive way is to move goods on water.
But we are impeding that by not spend-
ing this tax for the purpose for which it
was intended and which is legislated in
law. That is all we are asking to do
here today.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time, and I reserve the right to
close.
Mr. WOMACK. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Lou-
isiana (Mr. GRAVES).
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, listening to this debate, it is
not hard to understand why things in
this body don’t ever get done.
Here is the deal. There are a lot of
truths that are being spoken here. We
do have a debt that is completely out
of control. There is no question about
it.
The gentleman from Arkansas, the
gentleman from North Carolina, and
the gentleman from Utah are exactly
right: $23 trillion we are leaving to our
children and our grandchildren. It is
outrageous.
But my friend from Oregon is also ac-
curate in that we are charging a fee for
a purpose that is being diverted. It is
not right.
Mr. Speaker, if I ran a not-for-profit
and decided that I was going to collect
funds from the public, and I said I was
collecting them for the purpose of pro-
viding healthcare to someone who
needed it, and I decided to take those
funds and spend them somewhere else,
there is a word for that in the private
sector. It is called embezzling, and peo-
ple go to jail for it. In Congress, we call
it budgeting, and it is wrong.
Let me go back and just summarize
this. Absolutely, we need to have a bal-
anced budget. I would support it every
single day. I support Members of Con-
gress not being paid until we have one.
This needs to be in the budget caps.
But this has been a discussion that has
been going on for years and years and
years.
As my friend from Oregon indicated,
having a paper balance of $9 billion or
$10 billion—and it is not like we don’t
have a need. We have channels that are
shoaling up that we put draft restric-
tions on. We are not at the depths we
need to be at to meet the new trends in
shipping.
So, yes, I am concerned about the
debt, and I want to make sure we ad-
dress this. But this has been going on
for far too long, that these dollars have
been diverted or embezzled.
Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this
bill because we have to figure this out
and figure out how to get it up under
the budget cap where it belongs.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. WOMACK. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, with the
numbers we are facing—trillion-dollar
deficits and $23 trillion in debt—what
is another $10 billion?
Mr. Speaker, it is obvious that Con-
gress needs to start making the tough
decisions. The responsibility is at our
feet. It is in Article I of the Constitu-
tion, that same Constitution we all
took an oath to in January. And I am
not talking about tough decisions re-
garding the harbor maintenance trust
fund by itself. I am talking about a lot
of programs, all programs, mandatory
spending programs.
And an inconvenient truth, Mr.
Speaker, is this: As a percentage of our
economy, mandatory spending is going
higher. Discretionary spending, the
money we are talking about today, is
getting lower.
I wish my friend from Oregon would
bring the same passion to the floor
that he brings on the harbor mainte-
nance trust fund to actually righting
the ship on spending in the country as
a whole to include solutions to the
mandatory spending programs that
continue to skyrocket totally un-
checked by the Congress.
I want more money for education. I
want more money for science and
healthcare. And I want more money for
harbor maintenance. I have backlogs in
my own district. But it needs to be
prioritized.
This discussion should have taken
place 3 months ago. In fact, it did.
There were other issues addressed in
the negotiation for the budget caps
that we operate under today.
May I remind my friend from Oregon
that we had a long talk about the Cen-
sus. It made it in. We discussed harbor
maintenance. We discussed VA MIS-
SION, Mr. Speaker, and that was in ex-
cess of $20 billion. But, somehow, we
were able to get it beneath the caps.
At the end of the day, only one of
those negotiating topics actually made
it into the discussion. So now here we
are, expected to relitigate the other
cap adjustments.
What other types of spending will
folks want to give special privilege to?
Proponents are saying we don’t get
what we want so let’s just bust the
caps. That is a dangerous precedent. It
should never be considered in the same
context as overseas contingency and
disaster spending, which we all know
operate above the caps.
It would behoove us to take note of
organizations that have expertise in
the state of our Nation’s fiscal well-
being and their opinion.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a statement by the National Taxpayers
Union that says, among other things,
in urging a ‘‘no’’ vote on the Full Utili-
zation of the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund Act, the Congress of the
United States should be asking for
healthier trust funds, not weakening
those trust funds.
NATIONAL TAXPAYERS UNION,
Washington, DC, October 28, 2019.
NTU urges all Representatives to vote
‘‘NO’’ on H.R. 2440, the Full Utilization of
the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Act.
This legislation would lead to higher federal
spending, exempt the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund (HMTF) from discretionary caps,
and potentially draw down the $9 billion sur-
plus in the HMTF. Lawmakers should oppose
this proposal, and pursue legislation that
strengthens caps on discretionary spending
rather than weakening them.
H.R. 2440 would add the HMTF to a special,
narrow group of spending categories that are
exempt from Budget Control Act (BCA) caps.
Currently, that list is limited to emergency
and overseas contingency operations (OCO)
spending, disaster relief, continuing dis-
ability reviews and redeterminations, health
care fraud and abuse control, reemployment
services and eligibility assessments, and
wildfire suppression. Despite the pending ex-
piration of BCA caps on discretionary spend-
ing, the bill’s supporters have failed to make
the case that HMTF belongs in the same cat-
egory of exempt spending as disaster relief
and OCO.
CBO has scored H.R. 2440 as having no im-
pact on direct spending, revenues, or the def-
icit, but this is a misleading analysis. As
NTU Foundation pointed out in June, the
sponsors of the legislation ‘‘wrote that it
would provide for an additional $34 billion in
funds for harbors. Despite the obvious moti-
vation to use HMTF as a vehicle for spending
hikes, CBO’s zero score reflects a myopic
reading of the bill.’’ This intention is also
made clear in the House Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee report on H.R.
2440, which states, ‘‘[t]his change would en-
able the investment of approximately $34 bil-
lion over the next decade from the HMTF for
the intended purpose of maintaining Feder-
ally-authorized harbors.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.023 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8484 October 28, 2019
Policymakers should want strong sur-
pluses in taxpayer-backed trust funds. At a
time when the Social Security and Medicare
Part A trust funds are facing insolvency,
Congress should not be passing legislation
that strains one of America’s healthier trust
funds. If lawmakers want to spend a higher
portion of HMTF’ s annual revenues, they
should do so by having harbor maintenance
needs compete with other priorities consid-
ered by Congress each year, rather than
carving out a caps exemption for HMTF.
Passing this legislation will only encourage
special interests to seek additional exemp-
tions for their priorities.
NTU strongly urges Representatives to op-
pose H.R. 2440 in its current form.
Roll call votes on H.R. 2440 will be included
in our annual Rating of Congress and a ‘‘NO’’
vote will be considered the pro-taxpayer po-
sition.
Mr. WOMACK. Mr. Speaker, I am re-
minded of an old saying, and my dad,
who grew up on a Yellow County, Ar-
kansas, farm says it to me often. He
says: Son, when you find yourself in a
hole, quit digging.
Mr. Speaker, if we pass H.R. 2440, we
will have added yet another shovel full
of deficit to our Nation’s fiscal situa-
tion. I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, may I in-
quire as to how much time is remain-
ing.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Oregon has 7 minutes re-
maining.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the gentleman said he
wants healthy trust funds. Well, we got
a heck of a healthful trust fund when it
comes to harbor maintenance, but we
also have a massive deficit in harbor
maintenance.
We are projecting that we are going
to need an extra $15.8 billion between
now and just 2020 to meet the demands
of larger and heavier ships that are
going to come through the Panama
Canal and come here. How are we going
to meet that? Well, we could spend the
harbor maintenance trust fund on har-
bor maintenance, but, no, it wasn’t
part of the budget caps.
Go out and tell that to people who
are dependent upon getting their goods
in and out of the Nation’s ports and
say: Oh, well. Sorry. We can’t do that
jetty. We can’t dredge that harbor be-
cause we can’t spend the money that
we took from you and put in the bank,
even though the need is not being met.
I don’t think that is a real winning
subject outside the beltway. But inside
the beltway, it resonates with certain
people.
Again, I am pleased to hear from the
National Taxpayers Union. The Asso-
ciation of General Contractors will key
vote this issue.
This is a program created during the
Reagan administration, signed by Ron-
ald Reagan. The money has been di-
verted by both Democratic Presidents
and Republican Presidents for years. It
is time to stop doing that.
This President expressed personally
to me, in a meeting, that he wants to
stop diverting that money. Mick
Mulvaney, following the line of arguing
we are having here, keeps trying to cut
the spending on harbor maintenance so
they can divert more of the tax paid by
the American people to create illusory
deficit reduction by putting the money
in the bank.
How does that reduce the deficit? It
doesn’t reduce the deficit. It doesn’t.
In the real world, it is the Budget
Act and its definitions that we are
talking about here, not the real needs
of the American people, not the real
needs of the American ports, not the
real needs of our shippers, and not the
real needs of our exporters. That is
what we are talking about here today.
We can hear tomorrow and tomorrow
and tomorrow and tomorrow. ‘‘We will
get to it some other time.’’ Twenty-
three years ago, I started working on
this with Republican Chairman Bud
Shuster—23 years, a quarter of a cen-
tury.
This is something we can do for the
American people. The President ran on
providing trillions of dollars of infra-
structure investment. So far, all the
budgets written by Mick Mulvaney and
that hench-person he has over at OMB
now actually have proposed reductions
in transportation spending and have
proposed reductions in harbor mainte-
nance, even though we have a dedi-
cated tax that can pay for it.
In any sensible world, we would take
the dedicated tax and spend it on its
lawful purpose, and the only lawful
purpose is to get into our ports and re-
build the jetties and dredge for the
larger ships that are coming to Amer-
ica so we can be more competitive as a
maritime nation and maybe reduce the
trade deficit.
There was a lot of discussion about
the deficit. Again, I would just recall
that the deficit is up almost $400 bil-
lion in 2 years—2 years during which
the Republicans controlled the House,
the Senate, and the White House.
b 1545
I think it had something to do with a
tax cut, $3 trillion. Didn’t hear much
about budget caps or deficit concerns.
Oh, wait a minute. It is going to pay
for itself. It was going to raise reve-
nues. It didn’t raise revenues. Revenues
didn’t get raised. And, oh, by the way,
it didn’t pay for itself.
So I would hope that Members here
will realize that the vast number of
Americans—I bet if you went out and
polled them, saying, ‘‘You are paying a
little tax here for harbor maintenance,
and it is being deposited in the Treas-
ury to make the deficit look smaller;
do you think that is a good idea?’’ I
think that would be one thing that
people on both sides of the aisle, all
across America would say, no, spend
the money on our ports.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mrs. NAPOLITANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of H.R. 2440, the Full
Utilization of the Harbor Maintenance Trust
Fund Act.
First, I want to recognize the leadership of
my Chairman, the gentleman from Oregon
(Mr. DEFAZIO) for his leadership on this issue
and shepherding H.R. 2440 through the legis-
lative process. His tenacity on this issue is
one of the main reasons why we are here
today, and will, hopefully be successful in
moving this bill through the House.
I also want to thank the Ranking Member of
the Full Committee, the gentleman from Mis-
souri (Mr. GRAVES); the Subcommittee Rank-
ing Member, the gentleman from Arkansas
(Mr. WESTERMAN); and the gentleman from
Pennsylvania, (Mr. KELLY) for their support of
this legislation as original cosponsors.
H.R. 2440 authorizes a discretionary cap
adjustment for the full-utilization of the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund by the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers (Corps). This change
would enable the investment of approximately
$34 billion over the next decade from the Har-
bor Maintenance Trust Fund for the intended
purpose of maintaining Federally-authorized
harbors. This will allow the Corps to dredge all
Federal harbors to their constructed widths
and depths.
In 1986, Congress enacted the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund as a user fee by tax-
ing importers and domestic shippers at our
harbors in order to pay for the maintenance of
our harbors. The problem is that the trust fund
collects more revenue than the President’s
Budget requests and Congress has appro-
priated to maintain our harbors.
According to the Congressional Budget Of-
fice (CBO), the Harbor Maintenance Trust
Fund will collect an additional $24.5 billion in
new revenue over the next decade but federal
appropriations from the trust fund will only be
$19.4 billion. This discrepancy is in addition to
the estimated $9.3 billion in previously col-
lected but unspent revenue.
During the Subcommittee’s hearing on April
10th, representatives from ports both big and
small all agreed that Congress must fully
spend the trust fund on harbor needs. H.R.
2440 would provide this authority to spend the
$24.5 billion in new revenue as intended on
harbor maintenance.
As we pass this responsible budgeting bill
today, I also look forward to working with my
colleagues as we move forward with a Water
Resources Development Act this Congress to
address inequities in how these funds are
spent.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. DEFA-
ZIO) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 2440, as amend-
ed.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. WOMACK. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
FEDERAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
COORDINATION ACT
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.017 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8485
October 28, 2019
(H.R. 1306) to amend the Disaster Re-
covery Reform Act to develop a study
regarding streamlining and consoli-
dating information collection and pre-
liminary damage assessments, and for
other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1306
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Federal Dis-
aster Assistance Coordination Act’’.
SEC. 2. STUDY TO STREAMLINE AND CONSOLI-
DATE INFORMATION COLLECTION
AND PRELIMINARY DAMAGE ASSESS-
MENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 1223 of the Dis-
aster Recovery Reform Act of 2018 (Public
Law 115–254) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 1223. STUDY TO STREAMLINE AND CON-
SOLIDATE INFORMATION COLLEC-
TION AND PRELIMINARY DAMAGE
ASSESSMENTS.
‘‘(a) INFORMATION COLLECTION.—Not later
than 2 years after the date of enactment of
this section, the Administrator, in coordina-
tion with the Small Business Administra-
tion, the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, the Disaster Assistance Work-
ing Group of the Council of the Inspectors
General on Integrity and Efficiency, and
other appropriate agencies, shall—
‘‘(1) conduct a study and develop a plan,
consistent with law, under which the collec-
tion of information from disaster assistance
applicants and grantees will be modified,
streamlined, expedited, efficient, flexible,
consolidated, and simplified to be less bur-
densome, duplicative, and time consuming
for applicants and grantees; and
‘‘(2) develop a plan for the regular collec-
tion and reporting of information on Federal
disaster assistance awarded, including the
establishment and maintenance of a website
for presenting the information to the public.
‘‘(b) PRELIMINARY DAMAGE ASSESSMENTS.—
Not later than 2 years after the date of en-
actment of this section, the Administrator,
in consultation with the Council of the In-
spectors General on Integrity and Efficiency,
shall convene a working group on a regular
basis with the Secretary of Labor, the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget,
the Secretary of Health and Human Services,
the Administrator of the Small Business Ad-
ministration, the Secretary of Transpor-
tation, the Assistant Secretary of Commerce
for Economic Development, and other appro-
priate agencies as the Administrator con-
siders necessary, to—
‘‘(1) identify and describe the potential
areas of duplication or fragmentation in pre-
liminary damage assessments after disaster
declarations;
‘‘(2) determine the applicability of having 1
Federal agency make the assessments for all
agencies; and
‘‘(3) identify potential emerging tech-
nologies, such as unmanned aircraft systems,
consistent with the requirements established
in the FEMA Accountability, Modernization
and Transparency Act of 2017 (42 U.S.C. 5121
note), to expedite the administration of pre-
liminary damage assessments.
‘‘(c) COMPREHENSIVE REPORT.—The Admin-
istrator shall submit 1 comprehensive report
that comprises the plans developed under
subsections (a)(1) and (a)(2) and a report of
the findings of the working group convened
under subsection (b), which may include rec-
ommendations, to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs of the Senate.
‘‘(d) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The com-
prehensive report developed under sub-
section (c) shall be made available to the
public and posted on the website of the Fed-
eral Emergency Management Agency—
‘‘(1) in pre-compressed, easily
downloadable versions that are made avail-
able in all appropriate formats; and
‘‘(2) in machine-readable format, if applica-
ble.
‘‘(e) SOURCES OF INFORMATION.—In pre-
paring the comprehensive report, any publi-
cation, database, or web-based resource, and
any information compiled by any govern-
ment agency, nongovernmental organiza-
tion, or other entity that is made available
may be used.
‘‘(f) BRIEFING.—Not later than 180 days
after submission of the comprehensive re-
port, the Administrator of the Federal Emer-
gency Management Agency, or a designee,
and a member of the Council of the Inspec-
tors General on Integrity and Efficiency, or
a designee, shall brief, upon request, the ap-
propriate congressional committees on the
findings and any recommendations made in
the comprehensive report.’’.
(b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—The item re-
lating to section 1223 in the table of contents
of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–254) is amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘Sec. 1223. Study to streamline and consoli-
date information collection and
preliminary damage assess-
ments.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Or-
egon (Mr. DEFAZIO) and the gentleman
from North Carolina (Mr. MEADOWS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Oregon.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days within which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 1306,
as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oregon?
There was no objection.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to be
standing on the floor here with my col-
league, Mr. MEADOWS, at this time, per-
haps a bit more in agreement.
So this bill, H.R. 1306, the Federal
Disaster Assistance Coordination Act,
was introduced by Representatives
MEADOWS and PETERS. It amends the
Disaster Recovery Reform Act, DRRA,
so-called, to help Federal agencies
streamline and consolidate informa-
tion, collection, and preliminary dam-
age assessments following disasters.
When a disaster occurs, Americans
don’t have time to wait around for the
bureaucracy to get the assistance that
they are entitled to. Today, there are
too many barriers that stand between
emergency response and Americans in
crisis due to a disaster, whether it is a
flood, a hurricane, a wildfire, or an
earthquake. Whatever the disaster
might be, the Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency and other Federal
agencies are supposed to be there to
help.
Currently, the implementation of
those recovery efforts and that disaster
assistance is hampered by inefficient
information collection and assessments
conducted by multiple agencies. Some
of them even come in like a year after
the fact and say: Wait a minute. We
didn’t authorize that. That kind of
thing has got to stop.
So this will remove information col-
lection barriers that currently impede
disaster aid. It creates a working group
to identify duplicative assessments—
we don’t need to waste money on
those—and it proposes getting rid of
them by administrative rule or, if nec-
essary, by legislation.
Further, it would streamline Federal
disaster recovery efforts by concluding
that a single agency is sufficient to
conduct damage assessments to ac-
count for the needs of disaster victims.
Again, we have multiple agencies
with conflicting opinions and numbers,
and sometimes they come back to com-
munities and want money back. Real-
ly? The other agency approved the
money. Oh, but you didn’t think—this
has got to be done better, more effi-
ciently, in coordination with a single
lead. So I am pleased that this bill is
before us today.
Mr. Speaker, I obviously recommend
an ‘‘aye’’ vote, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
for his kind comments. I have often
wondered, on the pharmaceutical com-
mercials that you see on TV, who is the
individual who can speak as fast as the
narrator and puts in the disclaimers. I
have now found the gentleman from
Oregon to be that individual, so it is a
good day for me.
I thank the gentleman for his sup-
port. Certainly, I rise in support of
H.R. 1306, the Federal Disaster Assist-
ance Coordination Act.
As the chairman was noting, this is a
bipartisan, commonsense piece of legis-
lation that would amend the Disaster
Recovery Reform Act and establish a
process to identify ways to streamline
it and consolidate the collection of cer-
tain disaster information.
I would be remiss, Mr. Speaker, if I
didn’t mention the work of the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. GRAVES),
along with the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. PETERS), in terms of really
trying to make sure that, when we al-
locate dollars, they get to those people
who are suffering most. The last thing
we need is for them to be caught up in
a bureaucracy that was not of their
own making.
Following a disaster, many times,
damage assessment needs are to be
done quickly. In North Carolina, even
most recently, some of those get into a
lot of finger-pointing back and forth,
Mr. Speaker.
Just last week, the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure re-
ceived testimony from State and local
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.027 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8486 October 28, 2019
emergency managers on how that cum-
bersome process is and what it is now.
So, while FEMA is certainly the lead
Federal agency on disasters, there is
often an alphabet soup of Federal agen-
cies that have to get involved in the
disaster response, and it is the local
Federal coordinators that actually
have to work in this recovery.
So it is critical that we look
throughout all of our agencies to mini-
mize the overlap, certainly as it relates
to assessments, and consider the use of
newer technologies and how to stream-
line the process.
Specifically, this bill will establish a
Federal working group, led by FEMA,
that would work with the Council of
the Inspectors General on integrity and
efficiency to determine how the dam-
age assessment process can be stream-
lined and whether new technologies
can be used to speed up the process.
Mr. Speaker, this is just a good-gov-
ernment bill that will improve disaster
recovery. As the gentleman knows,
being from the great State of Texas, as
well as I do, when people are hurting
from disasters, what they want are
fast, efficient recovery efforts. Hope-
fully, this bipartisan effort will do
that.
I encourage support of this bill, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I don’t
see any additional speakers, so I am
prepared to close. I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Lou-
isiana (Mr. GRAVES).
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I want to thank the gen-
tleman from North Carolina for yield-
ing.
Mr. Speaker, there are two sorts of
Members: There are Members who have
experienced and been through the dev-
astation of disaster and the constitu-
ents they represent, and there are peo-
ple who will. Those are the two types
of Members we have in this body.
The gentleman from North Carolina
is one of those folks who has been
through this. The people he represents
have been through this. The current
disaster process that we use oftentimes
revictimizes the very disaster victims
that we are trying to help, that we are
trying to save.
This legislation is very important
and it is insightful. It is insightful be-
cause, number one, it brings newer
ideas and newer technologies to the
table on how we are actually going to
quantify the damage associated with
disasters.
Let’s not use these technologies and
these techniques from the 1950s and
1960s when it is 2019 and 2020. We need
to be taking advantage of these new
technologies.
What that does, Mr. Speaker, is it re-
sults in better, more accurate damage
assessments where we are not contrib-
uting to the debt and wasting money,
as we discussed in previous legislation;
it results in faster recovery, faster re-
sponse to those disaster victims who
are out there.
This legislation helps to ensure that
instead of—we have had it in my home
State of Louisiana. We have had our
assessors out there doing work. We
have had our State Homeland Security
officials out there doing assessments.
We have had SBA, we have had HUD,
and we have had FEMA, and they all
come up with different numbers, which
is shocking to learn.
The most efficient thing to do, the
right thing to do, is to come up with a
common set of principles: use new
technology, quantify the disasters, in-
form how much money is needed and
where it is needed, and let’s help get
response and recovery activities mov-
ing much faster, much better, and
much more efficiently.
Let me say it again. We have got to
continue to stay focused on these dis-
aster victims. So the faster, better,
cheaper, that ends up benefiting them.
We have had all of these disconnects in
different programs because they are
using different metrics and milestones.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
gentleman from North Carolina and I
want to thank my friend from Oregon
for working together on this. It is an
important, insightful piece of legisla-
tion that is going to result in saving
taxpayer funds; a better, more efficient
response; stopping the tripping over
each other; and, ultimately, moving in
a direction where you have seamless
sequencing of response and recovery
activities.
Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this
legislation.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
gentleman from Louisiana for his com-
ments. When you think of disaster re-
covery and think of a champion who
has been wanting to address this, not
just on this bill, but each and every bill
that he looks at, there is no greater ad-
vocate that the American people have
than the gentleman from Louisiana.
In closing, I want to thank the chair-
man. Many times we can have different
opinions on different particular pieces
of legislation, but the gentleman has
always been thoughtful, and certainly,
under his leadership, in his chairman-
ship, he has worked in a bipartisan
manner to advance legislation.
I appreciate the gentleman’s willing-
ness to allow this bill to come to the
floor, and I urge its adoption.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, just in reference to
what the gentleman said earlier, once,
when Barney Frank used to serve here,
I was friendly with one of the recording
clerks, and she would rate how many
words per minute people could talk.
Barney was faster than me. Sometimes
I would be sitting here and people
would say: What did he say? And I said:
Oh, I can translate that. So I grew up
in that era.
But, returning to this bill, this is im-
portant, and this is not the end of our
reforms. As the gentleman from Lou-
isiana pointed out, just think of it this
way: We had a very rare, bizarre snow
event last winter, and I had five trees
fall on my house. The insurance ad-
juster came out and said okay. We
agreed on what it would take to fix the
house.
Now, imagine if that company had
sent five different adjusters on dif-
ferent days and they all came up with
different figures. The house was just
finished last weekend. It took 9
months, but I would still be waiting,
probably, for the repairs to start.
That is what happens to people in
some of these disasters. They are still
waiting for the approvals they need to
go forward and do the repairs, or they
got funding from one agency for emer-
gency housing assistance and then they
are being told they can’t get housing
assistance or they can’t get their home
repaired because they took that
money, even though no one told them
when they took that money that that
was going to disqualify them from
some other agency.
It has got to get straightened out.
The Federal Government needs to co-
ordinate this response, and this is just,
I believe, the beginning of reforming
these disaster assistance programs.
And, oh, by the way, the National
Flood Insurance Program is broke, and
we have got to do something about
that, too, including some reforms.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. PETERS. Mr. Speaker, I thank Chair-
man DEFAZIO, and thank Congressman MEAD-
OWS, for working with me to improve the fed-
eral government’s transparency on disaster
assistance spending and the government’s ef-
ficiency on providing communities with relief
funding.
As fires burn across California and hurri-
canes continue to hit the Southeast, it is clear
that disasters are becoming larger, more dan-
gerous and frequent, and significantly more
expensive. According to the Federal Emer-
gency Management Agency (FEMA), there
have been more than 2,400 federally declared
disasters since 2000, totaling hundreds of bil-
lions of dollars in federal relief aid.
Multiple federal agencies help communities
recover from these disasters. However, they
do not coordinate when conducting damage
assessments, which creates duplicative work
across agencies.
That’s why I joined Congressman MEADOWS
in introducing the Federal Disaster Assistance
Coordination Act. This bill is commonsense: it
requires FEMA to create an interagency work-
ing group to determine any areas of overlap
across agencies when conducting assess-
ments used to administer disaster assistance.
It also requires the working group to assess
new technologies that may accelerate damage
assessments following disasters.
This bill, in coordination with two other dis-
aster assistance bills Mr. MEADOWS and I in-
troduced together—the DISASTER Act and
the Post-Disaster Assistance Online Account-
ability Act—allow the federal government to ef-
ficiently provide communities with disaster re-
lief aid.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.028 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8487
October 28, 2019
I urge my colleagues to pass this legislation
today, and I look forward to the Senate acting
on all three of our disaster transparency bills.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. DEFA-
ZIO) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 1306, as amend-
ed.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to amend the Dis-
aster Recovery Reform Act of 2018 to
develop a study regarding streamlining
and consolidating information collec-
tion and preliminary damage assess-
ments, and for other purposes.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
b 1600
NOTICE TO AIRMEN
IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1775) to establish a task force on
NOTAM improvements, and for other
purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1775
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Notice to
Airmen Improvement Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FAA TASK FORCE ON NOTAM IMPROVE-
MENT.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Administrator of
the Federal Aviation Administration shall
establish a special task force to be known as
the FAA Task Force on NOTAM Improve-
ment (in this section referred to as the
‘‘Task Force’’).
(b) COMPOSITION.—The Task Force shall
consist of members appointed by the Admin-
istrator and shall include the following:
(1) Air carrier representatives.
(2) Labor union representatives.
(3) General and business aviation rep-
resentatives.
(4) Aviation safety experts with knowledge
of international and domestic regulatory re-
quirements for notices to airmen (in this sec-
tion referred to as ‘‘NOTAMs’’).
(5) Human factors experts.
(c) DUTIES.—The duties of the Task Force
shall include—
(1) reviewing existing methods for pre-
senting NOTAMs and flight operations infor-
mation to pilots;
(2) reviewing regulations and policies re-
lating to NOTAMs, including their content
and presentation to pilots;
(3) evaluating and determining best prac-
tices to organize, prioritize, and present
flight operations information in a manner
that optimizes pilot review and retention of
relevant information; and
(4) providing recommendations in the fol-
lowing areas:
(A) Improving the presentation of NOTAM
information in a manner that prioritizes or
highlights the most important information,
and optimizes pilot review and retention of
relevant information.
(B) Ways to ensure that NOTAMs are com-
plete, accurate, and contain the proper infor-
mation.
(C) Any other best practices that the FAA
should consider to improve the accuracy and
understandability of NOTAMs and the dis-
play of flight operations information.
(D) Ways to work with air carriers, other
airspace users, and aviation service providers
to implement solutions that are aligned with
the recommendations under this paragraph.
(d) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the establishment of the Task
Force, the Task Force shall submit to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate a report
detailing—
(1) the results of the reviews and evalua-
tions of the Task Force under subsection (c);
(2) the best practices identified and rec-
ommendations provided by the Task Force
under subsection (c);
(3) any recommendations of the Task Force
for additional regulatory or policy actions to
improve the presentation of NOTAMs; and
(4) the degree to which implementing the
recommendations of the Task Force will ad-
dress National Transportation Safety Board
Safety Recommendation A–18–024.
(e) APPLICABLE LAW.—The Federal Advi-
sory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not
apply to the Task Force.
(f) SUNSET.—The Task Force shall termi-
nate on the earlier of—
(1) the date on which the Task Force sub-
mits the report required under subsection
(d); or
(2) the date that is 18 months after the date
on which the Task Force is established under
subsection (a).
(g) AUTHORITY.—The Administrator shall
have the authority to carry out the rec-
ommendations of the Task Force outlined in
the report required under subsection (d).
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Or-
egon (Mr. DEFAZIO) and the gentleman
from Louisiana (Mr. GRAVES) each will
control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Oregon.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on H.R. 1775.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oregon?
There was no objection.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of the bill intro-
duced by the gentleman from Min-
nesota, Representative STAUBER. H.R.
1775 would create a task force to review
existing methods for presenting notices
to airmen and -women, or NOTAMs—
maybe we have to add a W after the M,
we will work on that—to pilots.
NOTAMs provide pilots with essential
real-time information regarding abnor-
malities or issues in the National Air-
space System. For example, NOTAMs
alert pilots to potential hazards in the
airspace or at an airport, such as, more
mundanely, closed runways or
taxiways. They are also used during
space launches and things like that.
While pilots are required to review
all NOTAMs before flight, there has
been concern about the lengthiness and
completeness of the critical informa-
tion contained in NOTAMs and how the
information is displayed to and orga-
nized for pilots.
Under H.R. 1775 the task force will
determine best practices for organizing
and presenting flight operations infor-
mation to pilots in the most optimal
manner and make recommendations to
improve the presentation of NOTAM
information while ensuring their accu-
racy and completeness.
Recommendations from the task
force could help prevent future avia-
tion accidents and near accidents. We
saw that in July 2017 an Air Canada
A320 almost landed on top of five jet-
liners with more than 1,000 people on-
board awaiting take-off at San Fran-
cisco International Airport before exe-
cuting an emergency go-around. The
aircraft came as close as 60 feet above
one of the planes on the ground. That
would have been catastrophic if that
plane had just descended a little bit
more.
There were no injuries, but this could
have been catastrophic, as I said. The
National Transportation Safety Board
determined the probable cause of the
incident was the pilots’ misidentifica-
tion of the taxiway for a runway based
in part on their ineffective review of
NOTAMs.
NOTAMs can and must be better and
more clear for pilots. I expect the task
force established under H.R. 1775 will
lead to good work and recommenda-
tions that will improve safety, hope-
fully, in the near future without any
sort of lengthy rulemaking process.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues
to join me in supporting the legisla-
tion. I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, this is how legislation
is supposed to work. I want to thank
my friend from Minnesota (Mr.
STAUBER) and I want to thank Con-
gressman DESAULNIER from California
for introducing this bipartisan legisla-
tion and legislation that is in direct re-
sponse to an NTSB, National Transpor-
tation Safety Board, recommendation.
Mr. Speaker, as you have just heard
the committee chair cover a story back
at the San Francisco International Air-
port in 2017, there was an Air Canada
flight that was coming in on an occu-
pied—on an occupied—taxiway. They
had been given a notice they misread
and didn’t fully understand what they
had been given or didn’t fully abide by
it, and there were four to five fully
loaded airliners on that taxiway.
Mr. Speaker, you can imagine the
disaster that would have happened if
there had not been a last-minute diver-
sion of the disaster that was imminent
in this case. There were four to five
fully loaded planes waiting for depar-
ture with the Air Canada flight coming
in. This area had been closed. They had
been notified that it had been closed,
but it was not a message that they had
properly either understood or received.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.020 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8488 October 28, 2019
After the NTSB investigation, they
found that we have got to find a better
way of communicating to airmen under
the NOTAM or, Notice to Airmen,
alerts. So in direct response to what we
have seen from the NTSB and in direct
response to what we have seen in this
incident, what this does is it brings to-
gether a group of experts in this field
to ensure that we can find a better way
to apply lessons learned to make sure
that we get better and to make sure
that these close calls do not happen
again.
So, Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of
this legislation. I want to reiterate the
great thanks that I have to my friend
from Minnesota (Mr. STAUBER) for
leading this and Congressman
DESAULNIER from California for work-
ing together in a bipartisan way to en-
sure that we are applying lessons
learned. We are applying common
sense. And that we are ensuring the
safety of air passengers across the
United States and the globe.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr.
STAUBER).
Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, before I
begin, I want to thank Chairman
DEFAZIO and Ranking Member GRAVES
for their great leadership on the Trans-
portation and Infrastructure Com-
mittee.
I am pleased to rise in support of my
bipartisan legislation that improves
the safety of air travel. I would also
like to thank my colleague, Mr.
DESAULNIER, for his support and lead-
ership on this legislation as well.
Notice to Airmen, or NOTAMs, are
extremely important to safety in our
skies. NOTAMs are critical as they
relay safety information to pilots that
allow them to understand the possible
hazards and conditions of airports and
runways before actually getting to the
destination. The current system simply
is not working as well as it should.
NOTAMs are often buried in lengthy
reports conflating important safety in-
formation with more common alerts.
These inefficiencies have the potential
to create life-threatening situations.
My bill creates a task force at the
FAA with important input from safety
experts and industry professionals to
address what changes need to be made
to NOTAMs to make air travel even
safer than it already is.
Mr. Speaker, I am looking forward to
working with my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle on future legislation
that directly helps the American peo-
ple, and I urge support for my bipar-
tisan bill, the Notice to Airmen Im-
provement Act.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, just in closing, once again, I
want to thank the bipartisan work on
this legislation from Mr. STAUBER and
Mr. DESAULNIER. I want to thank the
full committee Ranking Member SAM
GRAVES and Mr. DEFAZIO, the chair-
man, for all working together.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this
important legislation, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I regret that Representative
DESAULNIER couldn’t be here today be-
cause he partnered with Representative
STAUBER on this legislation. He has
been very concerned and has been rais-
ing this issue with me repeatedly be-
cause of the incident at San Francisco
and general concerns he had about run-
way intrusions and other problems. So
he is on an airplane, as we speak, fly-
ing here, hopefully, safely. That is un-
fortunate since he won’t be here to ac-
tually get credit on the floor, but I
want to extend that to him.
I want to thank Ranking Member
GRAVES for his support on this and the
other Ranking Member GRAVES for his
support on this and Representative
LARSEN who is probably also on an air-
plane somewhere. It is rare that I
would be here on a Monday, but the
harbor maintenance bill attracted me
to be here.
Mr. Speaker, I urge that this be
adopted, and I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote. This
is one more little bit of an addition, or
a major addition, to our safety culture
in aviation in this country with the
largest and most complex airspace in
the world, and this is a necessary step
to make it safer.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. DEFA-
ZIO) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 1775.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
TRANSPARENCY IN FEDERAL
BUILDINGS PROJECTS ACT OF 2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2502) to amend title 40, United
States Code, to require certain
prospectuses for public buildings to be
made publicly available, and for other
purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2502
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Trans-
parency in Federal Buildings Projects Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF BUILDING
PROJECT INFORMATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 33 of title 40,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 3318. AVAILABILITY OF FEDERAL BUILDING
PROJECT INFORMATION.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this section,
and, at a minimum, on a quarterly basis
thereafter, the Administrator shall make
publicly available on a subpage of the
website of the General Services Administra-
tion all prospectuses submitted pursuant to
sections 3307 and 3316, and associated infor-
mation subject to the following require-
ments:
‘‘(1) The Administrator shall maintain
such information in an easily accessible and
readable, organized, downloadable, and
searchable format.
‘‘(2) The Administrator shall ensure the in-
formation is current and prospectuses and
associated information updated on a regular
basis.
‘‘(3) The information required under this
section shall be inclusive for a period of not
less than 10 years.
‘‘(4) The information shall include—
‘‘(A) the last date on which the relevant
webpage was updated;
‘‘(B) approval dates of respective author-
izing resolutions by each committee of juris-
diction, if applicable;
‘‘(C) copies of respective committee of ju-
risdiction resolutions authorizing such
prospectuses, as appropriate;
‘‘(D) cross-references to any resubmitted or
amended prospectuses and associated resolu-
tions; and
‘‘(E) such other information as determined
by the Administrator.
‘‘(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the fol-
lowing definitions apply:
‘‘(1) PROSPECTUS.—The term ‘prospectus’
means prospectuses, building surveys, and
factsheets submitted to the committees of
jurisdiction pursuant to sections 3307 and
3316.
‘‘(2) COMMITTEES OF JURISDICTION.—The
term ‘committees of jurisdiction’ means the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Environment and
Public Works of the Senate.
‘‘(3) ASSOCIATED INFORMATION.—The term
‘associated information’ means resolutions
approved by the committees of jurisdiction
and other information as required pursuant
to subsection (a).’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of
chapters for chapter 33 of title 40, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘3318. Availability of Federal building
project information.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Or-
egon (Mr. DEFAZIO) and the gentleman
from North Carolina (Mr. MEADOWS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Oregon.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on H.R. 2502.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oregon?
There was no objection.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise in strong support of H.R. 2502,
the Transparency in Federal Buildings
Projects Act of 2019, introduced by the
gentleman from Alabama (Mr. PALM-
ER).
It is simple, but it is important. It is
also common sense and contributes to
government transparency.
Mr. Speaker, you know that the Fed-
eral Government through the GSA is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.032 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8489
October 28, 2019
the largest lessor or owner of commer-
cial office space in the United States of
America.
The program can use some improve-
ment, and this will help shine a light
on some of the issues and concerns we
have as we look for some reforms in
the way we acquire property in the
most cost-effective manner for the
American taxpayer. Sometimes GSA
does things that make little or no
sense when they get into lease agree-
ments, like they did with the Depart-
ment of Transportation, a beautiful
new building. We are now going to buy
the building for the second time, essen-
tially, by having paid for the lease for
a number of years. These things can be
done more effectively and more effi-
ciently, and this legislation will help
set a path to that kind of cost savings.
It requires the General Services Ad-
ministration to publish on its website
all prospectuses for leasing, design, or
construction activity; update the infor-
mation quarterly, and maintain the in-
formation for no less than 10 years in a
readable, accessible, and—this is key—
a searchable form, not just post it and
it is like, oh, sorry, there is no index.
It has to be searchable.
Mr. Speaker, this is a good-govern-
ment bill designed to provide taxpayers
with information regarding the GSA’s
leasing, design, and construction
projects for Federal agencies.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
2502, the Transparency in Federal
Buildings Projects Act. As the chair-
man just mentioned, it is a common-
sense piece of legislation.
I would like to thank the gentleman
from Alabama (Mr. PALMER) for his
leadership on this bill. I am pleased
that I am actually a cosponsor of this
particular legislation.
H.R. 2502 does provide for greater
transparency to the taxpayers on the
public buildings projects and leases. It
actually would require the General
Services Administration, or what we
refer to as GSA, to include on its
websites all project proposals and asso-
ciated information and submit that to
Congress under the Public Buildings
Act for approval.
This is a simple action, but it can
have a significant impact on improving
the accountability and transparency
that all American taxpayers yearn for.
While GSA includes some informa-
tion on its website, that information
provided is somewhat limited. This bill
would ensure that taxpayers know
what projects have been proposed, how
much they will cost, and which have
been actually approved.
In 2013 the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure began filling
this void by posting this information
on its website. Since that time the
committee’s website has become a crit-
ical resource not only for the public
and private sector but also for Federal
agencies. However, to ensure the con-
tinuity and that this information con-
tinues to be regularly updated and
maintained, this bill would place that
responsibility on GSA.
b 1615
As I mentioned, this is a common-
sense, straightforward bill. I thank
Chairman DEFAZIO and Ranking Mem-
ber GRAVES for their willingness to ad-
dress efficient and effective govern-
ment agency.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of my
colleagues to support this legislation,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
as much time as he may consume the
gentleman from Alabama (Mr. PALM-
ER), the sponsor of this particular piece
of legislation.
Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr.
GRAVES), the ranking member, and the
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MEADOWS) for their work on the issue,
and Chairman DEFAZIO for his support.
The General Services Administration
is required to submit to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure
and to the Senate Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works
prospectuses that contain information
on proposed public projects for com-
mittee consideration.
In recent years, the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure, as
has been mentioned, has posted this in-
formation about these projects on its
website to provide access to the public
and private entities. While the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infra-
structure has become a resource for the
public, and even for Federal agencies,
this bill, the Transparency in Federal
Buildings Projects Act, would require
the GSA to make publicly available on
its website all prospectuses and associ-
ated information, pursuant to the Pub-
lic Buildings Act.
This sensible reform will ensure that
taxpayers have more information
about how their hard-earned dollars
are being spent and managed. The bill
would strengthen transparency and ac-
countability in Federal construction,
renovation, and leasing projects, and I
urge my colleagues to support it.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I am
prepared to close, and I am assuming
that the gentleman opposite is. As we
close, I thank the chairman once again
for his support, and I thank the sponsor
of this particular bill.
We do believe that GSA, in posting
this information in a searchable fash-
ion, will provide for a more open and
transparent government.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support that, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, again, I con-
gratulate the gentleman from Alabama
(Mr. PALMER) for proposing this new
transparency legislation. I am certain,
in the end, it is ultimately going to
save the taxpayers money and lead to
GSA, perhaps, performing in a more ef-
ficient manner.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. DEFA-
ZIO) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 2502.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
VETERAN TREATMENT COURT
COORDINATION ACT OF 2019
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 886) to direct the Attorney Gen-
eral to establish and carry out a Vet-
eran Treatment Court Program, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 886
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Veteran
Treatment Court Coordination Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that veterans
treatment courts are a successful program
aimed at helping veterans charged with non-
violent crimes receive the help and the bene-
fits for which the veterans are entitled.
SEC. 3. VETERAN TREATMENT COURT PROGRAM.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Subject to the avail-
ability of appropriations, in coordination
with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the
Attorney General shall establish and carry
out a Veteran Treatment Court Program to
provide grants and technical assistance to
court systems that—
(1) have adopted a Veterans Treatment
Court Program; or
(2) have filed a notice of intent to establish
a Veterans Treatment Court Program with
the Secretary.
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Veterans
Treatment Court Program established under
subsection (a) is to ensure the Department of
Justice has a single office to coordinate the
provision of grants, training, and technical
assistance to help State, local, and Tribal
governments to develop and maintain vet-
eran treatment courts.
(c) PROGRAMS INCLUDED.—The Veterans
Treatment Court Program established under
subsection (a) shall include the grant pro-
grams relating to veterans treatment courts
carried out by the Attorney General pursu-
ant to sections 2901, 2991, and 3021 of the Om-
nibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 (34 U.S.C. 10581, 10651, and 10701) or any
other provision of law.
(d) REGULATIONS.—The Attorney General
shall promulgate regulations to carry out
this section.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. BASS) and the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. COLLINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.035 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8490 October 28, 2019
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days to revise and extend
their remarks and include extraneous
material on the bill under consider-
ation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to support H.R.
886, the Veteran Treatment Court Co-
ordination Act. This bill stands as a
testament to the commitment Con-
gress has to veterans, those who have
service-connected mental health dis-
abilities and become involved in the
criminal justice system.
By establishing a grant program of-
fice called the Veteran Treatment
Court Program Office in the Depart-
ment of Justice, the bill makes perma-
nent our support for the hundreds of
local veteran treatment court pro-
grams around the country that suc-
cessfully rehabilitate veterans.
The Veterans Treatment Court Pro-
gram Office would build upon the suc-
cess of the hundreds of veterans courts
programs in the United States by
standardizing data reporting methods,
serving as a repository for resources,
providing training to veterans court
administrators, and distributing infor-
mation nationwide on best practices on
how to improve the administration of
veterans courts.
Despite efforts to welcome veterans
home and ease their transition to civil-
ian life, many veterans continue to
face hardships after completing their
military service. One study reports
that approximately 9 percent of vet-
erans who served in Iraq and Afghani-
stan have been arrested since returning
home.
The Bureau of Justice Statistics esti-
mates that approximately 180,000 vet-
erans were incarcerated in State and
Federal prisons between 2011 and 2012.
Of those incarcerated veterans sur-
veyed, 48 percent of veterans in prison
and 55 percent of veterans in jail re-
ported that they had been told by a
mental health professional that they
had a mental health disorder.
Veterans treatment courts can pro-
vide an effective means by which com-
munities can rehabilitate veterans who
commit crimes and support victims by
ensuring veteran-defendants pay res-
titution before they may receive a dis-
missal or expungement.
Empirical studies show that veterans
courts provide more effective means of
rehabilitating justice-involved vet-
erans. Although 20 percent of veterans
court participants received jail sanc-
tions during their participation in the
veterans court program, only 14 per-
cent experienced a new incarceration
during an average of nearly 1 year in
the program. This rate of recidivism is
substantially less than the 23 to 46 per-
cent 1-year recidivism rate found
among nonveteran prisoners. Most pro-
grams report less than five dropouts in
the 2017 calendar year.
There are over 500 veteran treatment
courts operated by State, local, and
Tribal governments. This bill ensures
existing programs will continue their
mission to serve our veterans and
make it easier for jurisdictions to start
new veterans court programs and adopt
best practices.
I thank our colleague, Representa-
tive CHARLIE CRIST, for his leadership
in authoring this bill and for his con-
tinuing dedication to supporting our
veterans.
This is a thoughtful and important
bill that will help veterans who need
our assistance.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume. I appreciate the gentle-
woman from California (Ms. BASS). She
did a great job explaining this bill.
This is an easy bill. This is one that we
should come to. This is exactly why
suspensions exist, to do something like
this.
On a personal note, as a member of
the Air Force Reserve, someone who
has been both in the Navy and Air
Force, serving in Iraq and others, this
is something that is very good.
In my home of Hall County, Georgia,
the veterans courts have been set up
for several years now. We see the men-
toring aspect, the peer activity, some-
thing that we gained in the military
and something that is very important
and vital for these individuals who
have gone through run-ins with the law
on many occasions, on different ideas,
especially if it has to do with things
that came out of their service. We owe
them no greater debt than we do oth-
ers, to make sure that they have a
chance to get their lives back straight.
Veteran treatments court do that,
and this coordination act puts the em-
phasis on it from a Federal level.
I could not think of a better way to
start this week. Hopefully, holding a
good bill together, that we could get
this to the Senate as quickly as pos-
sible, and get it, even more impor-
tantly, to the President’s desk so that
it becomes more than a political state-
ment but actually a law.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. CRIST).
Mr. CRIST. Mr. Speaker, after 9/11,
thousands of America’s best had to
offer to sign up for our freedom. They
served their country with honor to
keep all of us here and our loved ones
save. Many of these heroes suffered
greatly with wounds that you can see
and, in many cases, wounds that you
cannot.
Too many veterans face mental and
physical disabilities. Too many vet-
erans come home without support
structures. Too many veterans lack op-
portunities. And too many veterans
self-medicate, find themselves in the
criminal justice system, and are for-
gotten.
In 2008, the first veteran treatment
court was established in Buffalo, New
York. The idea is that veterans face
unique challenges that require veteran-
specific care.
While the VA can be an option for a
veteran in crisis, including at the C.W.
Bill Young Medical Center in my dis-
trict, not every veteran in crisis goes
to the VA, and if they do, they may not
have somebody to check on them and
make sure they are okay.
Veterans treatment courts are diver-
sion programs. Working with justice
outreach specialists at their local VA
medical centers, social workers and
counselors at the local level, and vet-
erans service organizations, vet courts
get nonviolent veterans who qualify
into treatment and counseling instead
of just locking them up.
After they complete the require-
ments, the veteran can even have their
record expunged, preserving housing
and employment opportunities.
Just over 10 years after the first
court, there are now hundreds all
around the country, including one in
my home of Pinellas County, Florida.
Each vet court is different, starting
in the community from scratch and co-
ordinating the people and organiza-
tions that will help rehabilitate vet-
erans in their program.
Congress, recognizing the importance
of these courts in our districts, has
provided funding for vet courts for a
few years now, including a record $25
million in the House-passed Commerce,
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
Appropriations bill.
However, unlike other justice grant
programs, like juvenile justice pro-
grams, there is still not adequate co-
ordination at the Department of Jus-
tice to provide best practices, support,
as well as technical assistance to com-
munities that have vet court or want
to start one.
The Veteran Treatment Court Co-
ordination Act fixes this, establishing
the Veteran Treatment Court Program
in the Office of Justice Programs.
I am thankful to my colleagues on
the Committee on Appropriations, of
which I am a member, particularly the
gentlewoman from New York, Chair-
woman LOWEY, and the gentleman from
New York, Chairman SERRANO, for
their steadfast support of the veteran
treatment court funding.
However, the Department of Justice,
which administers the grants, needs an
office dedicated to helping and guiding
communities that want to access
grants or want to set up their own vet-
erans court.
I thank the gentlewoman from New
York (Ms. STEFANIK) for her work over
this past year, as well as the gen-
tleman from New York, Chairman NAD-
LER, and the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia, Chairwoman BASS, for their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.038 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8491
October 28, 2019
leadership on the Committee on the
Judiciary, fighting for criminal justice
reforms as well as diversion programs.
Lastly, I thank all the organizations,
both veterans service organizations
and criminal justice professionals, that
have helped build support for this over
the past 2 years and that have worked
tirelessly in our districts to make vet-
erans treatment courts so successful.
This includes the National Military
and Veterans Alliance, the National
Veterans Court Alliance, and the Na-
tional District Attorneys Association,
all of which have endorsed the legisla-
tion, along with 19 veteran groups
total.
When a veteran suffering because of
their service makes a mistake, we have
a duty as a country to do all we can to
give them the very best possible out-
come. We have a duty to fight for those
who fought for our freedoms.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
support this legislation.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, if the gentlewoman has no more
speakers, I am prepared to close.
Mr. Speaker, this is a good bill. I ap-
preciate everybody and all the hard
work that has gone into it.
When we take time to come together
and lock arms to do these kinds of
bills, these are things that actually
move the needle for people back home,
the reason we are here. This is very
easy to support. This should be a sim-
ple voice vote. Get it done, and get this
done.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentle-
woman from California, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
ranking member for his brevity.
Mr. Speaker, this bill would help pro-
vide support to more than 1 million
veterans diagnosed with service-con-
nected disabilities, as well as the thou-
sands who are undiagnosed who have
been and will be exposed to the crimi-
nal justice system.
Supporting rehabilitative veterans
courts programs is the least we can do
to acknowledge their sacrifice and
treat our veterans involved with the
criminal justice system with compas-
sion and care.
Mr. Speaker, for these reasons, I urge
my colleagues to join me in supporting
this bill, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico.
Mr. Speaker, today I rise in strong support of
H.R. 886, the Veteran Treatment Court Co-
ordination Act of 2019.
Our men and women in uniform often strug-
gle with physical and mental remnants of their
time in service. According to the VA, over 1.7
million veterans received treatment through a
VA mental health specialty program in 2018.
Additionally, close to 20 percent of service
members returning from Iraq or Afghanistan
experience depression or have a Post-Trau-
matic Stress Disorder diagnosis.
Mr. Speaker, we want our veterans to thrive.
They listened to their Nation’s call and served
when needed. It is now our responsibility to
address every single issue that stops them
from living a full life and continue to contribute
to their country as a civilian.
Veterans’ Treatment Courts are a valuable
tool that assists veterans facing non-violent
criminal charges resulting from mental illness,
substance abuse or other adverse behavior.
They provide alternatives at the state and
county level that focus on rehabilitation and
reintegration in part by facilitating programs
that provide support and resources to vet-
erans.
H.R. 886 directs the Department of Justice
to establish a Veterans Treatment Court Pro-
gram that provides grants and technical assist-
ance for local governments to develop and
maintain veteran treatment courts.
State circuits that have either adopted a
Veterans Treatment Court or have filed a no-
tice of intent to establish a Veterans Treat-
ment Court would be eligible.
I am a proud cosponsor of this bill. I genu-
inely believe veterans are an asset to our
communities and as such should be given all
available help and assistance.
I thank my colleague, Mr. CRIST from Florida
for his leadership on this issue and encourage
my colleagues to vote in favor.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
BASS) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 886, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
b 1630
PREVENTING ONLINE SALES OF E-
CIGARETTES TO CHILDREN ACT
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 3942) to apply requirements relat-
ing to delivery sales of cigarettes to
delivery sales of electronic nicotine de-
livery systems, and for other purposes,
as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3942
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Preventing
Online Sales of E-Cigarettes to Children
Act’’.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS TO THE JENKINS ACT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Act entitled ‘‘An Act
to assist States in collecting sales and use
taxes on cigarettes’’, approved October 19,
1949 (commonly known as the ‘‘Jenkins
Act’’) (15 U.S.C. 375 et seq.), is amended—
(1) in section 1 (15 U.S.C. 375)—
(A) in paragraph (2)(A)(ii)—
(i) by striking ‘‘includes roll-your-own to-
bacco’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘in-
cludes—
‘‘(I) roll-your-own tobacco’’;
(ii) in subclause (I), as so designated, by
striking the period at the end and inserting
‘‘; and’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(II) an electronic nicotine delivery sys-
tem.’’;
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (7)
through (14) as paragraphs (8) through (15),
respectively; and
(C) by inserting after paragraph (6) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(7) ELECTRONIC NICOTINE DELIVERY SYS-
TEM.—The term ‘electronic nicotine delivery
system’—
‘‘(A) means any electronic device that,
through an aerosolized solution, delivers nic-
otine, flavor, or any other substance to the
user inhaling from the device;
‘‘(B) includes—
‘‘(i) an e-cigarette;
‘‘(ii) an e-hookah;
‘‘(iii) an e-cigar;
‘‘(iv) a vape pen;
‘‘(v) an advanced refillable personal vapor-
izer;
‘‘(vi) an electronic pipe; and
‘‘(vii) any component, liquid, part, or ac-
cessory of a device described in subparagraph
(A), without regard to whether the compo-
nent, liquid, part, or accessory is sold sepa-
rately from the device; and
‘‘(C) does not include a product that is—
‘‘(i) approved by the Food and Drug Admin-
istration for—
‘‘(I) sale as a tobacco cessation product; or
‘‘(II) any other therapeutic purpose; and
‘‘(ii) marketed and sold solely for a purpose
described in clause (i).’’; and
(2) in section 2A(b)(1) (15 U.S.C. 376a(b)(1)),
by inserting ‘‘NICOTINE/’’ after ‘‘CIGA-
RETTES/’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This section, and the
amendments made by this section, shall take
effect on the date that is 90 days after the
date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3. NONMAILABILITY OF ELECTRONIC NICO-
TINE DELIVERY SYSTEMS.
(a) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
United States Postal Service shall promul-
gate regulations to clarify the applicability
of the prohibition on mailing of cigarettes
under section 1716E of title 18, United States
Code, to electronic nicotine delivery sys-
tems, in accordance with the amendment to
the definition of ‘‘cigarette’’ made by section
2.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The prohibition on
mailing of cigarettes under section 1716E of
title 18, United States Code, shall apply to
electronic nicotine delivery systems on and
after the date on which the United States
Postal Service promulgates regulations
under subsection (a) of this section.
SEC. 4. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. BASS) and the gen-
tleman from North Dakota (Mr. ARM-
STRONG) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the bill
under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.039 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8492 October 28, 2019
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3942, the Pre-
venting Online Sales of E-Cigarettes to
Children Act, is an important bill to
protect our young people. I applaud the
gentlewoman from Connecticut (Ms.
DELAURO) for taking the lead on this
issue and introducing this bipartisan
legislation.
This bill addresses a very serious
public health crisis in our country, one
which is tragically affecting our chil-
dren. Since last summer, a mysterious
and severe pulmonary disease associ-
ated with the use of e-cigarettes and
the practice of vaping has sickened
over 1,000 mostly young and otherwise
healthy people, 18 of whom have died.
Public health advocates place the
blame for this crisis on the aggressive
marketing of vaping products that ap-
peal to kids, including e-liquids with
fruit, bubble gum, or even cotton candy
flavors in packaging that features
superhero or cartoon characters. Advo-
cates also cite the mushrooming popu-
larity of USB flash drive-like e-ciga-
rettes, which have a high nicotine con-
tent, appealing flavors, and can easily
be concealed.
Evidence of the attractiveness of
these products to young people is re-
flected in some staggering statistics.
According to the 2018 National Youth
Tobacco Survey, between 2017 and 2018
there was a 78 percent increase in e-cig-
arette use among high school students
and a 48 percent increase among middle
school students. H.R. 3942 will play an
important role in addressing this cri-
sis.
Congress regulates the sales of to-
bacco products via interstate shipment
through the 1949 Jenkins Act. In 2010,
Congress extended the Jenkins Act to
regulate delivery sales of tobacco prod-
ucts over the internet through the Pre-
vent All Cigarette Trafficking Act, or
PACT Act.
Among other things, the PACT Act
curbed internet sales of cigarettes to
underage people by encouraging and re-
quiring that delivery agents check
identification in person when the prod-
uct is delivered.
H.R. 3942 amends current law to curb
online sales of e-cigarettes to minors.
It amends the definition of ‘‘cigarette’’
to extend to any electronic nicotine de-
livery system, which includes e-ciga-
rettes, vape pens, and other electronic
devices.
A violation of the provisions of the
Jenkins Act is a Federal felony, pun-
ishable by up to 3 years in prison.
Amending current law to extend these
protections to e-cigarettes is the right
thing to do.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this important
bill, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND REFORM,
Washington, DC, October 28, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I am writing to you
concerning H.R. 3942, the Preventing Online
Sales of E-Cigarettes to Children Act. There
are certain provisions in the legislation
which fall within the Rule X jurisdiction of
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
In the interest of permitting your Com-
mittee to proceed expeditiously on this bill,
I am willing to waive this Committee’s right
to sequential referral. I do so with the under-
standing that by waiving consideration of
the bill, the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form does not waive any future jurisdic-
tional claim over the subject matters con-
tained in the bill which fall within its Rule
X jurisdiction. I request that you urge the
Speaker to name Members of this Committee
to any conference committee which is named
to consider such provisions.
Please place this letter into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor. Thank you for
the cooperative spirit in which you have
worked regarding this matter and others be-
tween our respective Committees.
Sincerely,
CAROLYN B. MALONEY,
Acting Chairwoman.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 3942, the Preventing Online
Sales of E-Cigarettes to Children Act.
This bill can be summarized in this
way: If minors can’t buy e-cigarettes in
a store, they shouldn’t be able to buy
e-cigarettes online.
Today, anyone who purchases alcohol
or tobacco at a brick-and-mortar retail
store is subject to age verification re-
quirements. Online retailers of alcohol
must also verify a purchaser’s age to
ensure the sales comply with State and
Federal law. However, online retailers
of e-cigarettes are exempted from
verifying the age of their customers.
When the PACT Act was passed in
2010, it did a great job of curbing youth
smoking. Unfortunately, e-cigarettes
were not in existence yet.
This loophole exists at a time when
youth vaping is at epidemic levels.
Today, one in five high school students
is using e-cigarettes. Kids can have e-
cigarettes delivered right to their door
without requiring an adult signature.
Teen vaping rates have doubled since
2017, and over 3 million minors used e-
cigarettes last year. The lack of age
verification requirements is hurting
kids.
The Preventing Online Sales of E-
Cigarettes to Children Act would re-
quire age verification upon delivery of
online purchases of e-cigarettes and
other vapor products. It closes the on-
line delivery loophole and will prevent
the underage purchase of e-cigarettes
online.
This bill has a broad coalition of sup-
port.
I thank Representative ROSA
DELAURO for her partnership on this
legislation to protect the next genera-
tion, as well as House Judiciary Com-
mittee Ranking Member DOUG COLLINS.
This bill also has bipartisan support
in the Senate, with Senators DIANNE
FEINSTEIN, JOHN CORNYN, and CHRIS
VAN HOLLEN all on board.
Patient advocacy organizations like
the American Cancer Society Cancer
Action Network and the American
Lung Association also support this leg-
islation.
Business and trade associations like
the National Association of Conven-
ience Stores, the Petroleum Marketer
Association of America, and the Con-
venience Distribution Association all
also support this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I notice that
there are a number of young people
who are in the gallery, so I am hoping
that they pay close attention to this
debate since it is all about you guys.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair would remind Members to avoid
referencing occupants of the gallery.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Florida (Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL).
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Mr.
Speaker, today I rise in support of H.R.
3942, the Preventing Online Sales of E-
Cigarettes to Children Act.
The spread of e-cigarettes is a public
health crisis. I have had multiple con-
versations with parents who are seeing
their children become addicted to to-
bacco products, and, as a mom, I refuse
to stand idly by as a new generation of
children become addicted to this sub-
stance.
We have seen multiple deaths from
the use of vaping products and several
hundred lung disease cases in Florida
alone. Approximately 5,600 kids in
Florida are becoming new daily smok-
ers each year. This is affecting children
regardless of ZIP Code or income level.
For years, e-cigarette companies
have targeted our children using spe-
cialty flavors like cotton candy and
made their products easy to purchase
online without any age verification.
We have the responsibility to do ev-
erything we can to keep this addictive
substance out of the hands of our kids,
including requiring online and in-per-
son verification for e-cigarette pur-
chases.
The health of our Nation’s children is
at risk because of e-cigarettes and
vaping products. The time to act is
now.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3942 is
an important measure to address a
threat to the health of our children and
young people.
For the reasons discussed here today,
I urge my colleagues to join me in sup-
porting this bipartisan legislation, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. Speaker, I
have a 12-year-old daughter; I have a 9-
year-old son. There are schools across
the country that are removing doors on
bathroom stalls and banning hoodies.
Teen vaping and youth vaping is a real
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.042 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8493
October 28, 2019
issue. This bill is a small step forward
to start canceling that.
At its simplest, this bill works to
modernize Federal law to treat e-ciga-
rettes the same as any other nicotine
product, and that is a good thing.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I urge my
colleagues to join me in supporting
this bipartisan legislation, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
BASS) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 3942, as amend-
ed.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CROWDFUNDING AMENDMENTS
ACT
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and pass the bill (H.R. 4860) to amend
the Securities Act of 1933 to subject
crowdfunding vehicles to the jurisdic-
tion of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4860
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the
‘‘Crowdfunding Amendments Act’’.
SEC. 2. CROWDFUNDING VEHICLES.
(a) AMENDMENTS TO THE SECURITIES ACT OF
1933.—The Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C.
77a et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 2(a) (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)), by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘(20) The term ‘crowdfunding vehicle’ has
the meaning given the term in section
3(c)(15)(B) of the Investment Company Act of
1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a–3(c)(15)(B)).’’;
(2) in section 4(a)(6) (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6))—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, other than a
crowdfunding vehicle,’’ after ‘‘sold to all in-
vestors’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘other than a
crowdfunding vehicle,’’ after ‘‘the issuer,’’;
and
(B) in subparagraph (B), in the matter pre-
ceding clause (i), by inserting ‘‘, other than
a crowdfunding vehicle,’’ after ‘‘any inves-
tor’’; and
(3) in section 4A(f) (15 U.S.C. 77d–1(f))—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘Section 4(6)’’ and inserting
‘‘Section 4(a)(6)’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘by any
of paragraphs (1) through (14) of’’ before
‘‘section 3(c)’’.
(b) AMENDMENTS TO THE INVESTMENT COM-
PANY ACT OF 1940.—Section 3(c) of the Invest-
ment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a–3(c))
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(15)(A) Any crowdfunding vehicle.
‘‘(B) For purposes of this paragraph, the
term ‘crowdfunding vehicle’ means a com-
pany—
‘‘(i) the purpose of which (as set forth in
the organizational documents of the com-
pany) is limited to acquiring, holding, and
disposing of securities issued by a single
company in one or more transactions made
under section 4(a)(6) of the Securities Act of
1933 (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6));
‘‘(ii) that issues only 1 class of securities;
‘‘(iii) that receives no compensation in
connection with the acquisition, holding, or
disposition of securities described in clause
(i);
‘‘(iv) no investment adviser or associated
person of which receives any compensation
on the basis of a share of capital gains upon,
or capital appreciation of, any portion of the
funds of an investor of the company;
‘‘(v) the securities of which have been
issued in a transaction made under section
4(a)(6) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C.
77d(a)(6)), where both the crowdfunding vehi-
cle and the company whose securities the
crowdfunding vehicle holds are co-issuers;
‘‘(vi) that is current with respect to ongo-
ing reporting requirements under section
227.202 of title 17, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, or any successor regulation;
‘‘(vii) that holds securities of a company
that is subject to ongoing reporting require-
ments under section 227.202 of title 17, Code
of Federal Regulations, or any successor reg-
ulation;
‘‘(viii) that is advised by an investment ad-
viser that is—
‘‘(I) registered under the Investment Advis-
ers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b–1 et seq.); and
‘‘(II) required to—
‘‘(aa) disclose to the investors of the com-
pany any fees charged by the investment ad-
viser; and
‘‘(bb) obtain approval from a majority of
the investors of the company with respect to
any increase in the fees described in item
(aa); and
‘‘(ix) that meets such other requirements
as the Commission may, by rule, determine
necessary or appropriate in the public inter-
est and for the protection of investors.’’.
(c) AMENDMENTS TO THE INVESTMENT ADVIS-
ERS ACT OF 1940.—The Investment Advisers
Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b–1 et seq.) is amend-
ed—
(1) in section 202(a) (15 U.S.C. 80b–2(a))—
(A) by redesignating the second paragraph
(29) as paragraph (31); and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(32) The term ‘crowdfunding vehicle’ has
the meaning given the term in section
3(c)(15)(B) of the Investment Company Act of
1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a–3(c)(15)(B)).
‘‘(33)(A) The term ‘crowdfunding vehicle
adviser’ means an investment adviser that
acts as an investment adviser solely with re-
spect to crowdfunding vehicles.
‘‘(B) A determination, for the purposes of
subparagraph (A), regarding whether an in-
vestment adviser acts as an investment ad-
viser solely with respect to crowdfunding ve-
hicles shall not include any consideration of
the activity of any affiliate of the invest-
ment adviser.’’;
(2) in section 203 (15 U.S.C. 80b–3), by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘(o) CROWDFUNDING VEHICLE ADVISERS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A crowdfunding vehicle
adviser shall be required to register under
this section.
‘‘(2) TAILORED REQUIREMENTS.—As nec-
essary or appropriate in the public interest
and for the protection of investors, and to
promote efficiency, competition, and capital
formation, the Commission shall tailor the
requirements under section 275.206(4)–2 of
title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, with
respect to the application of those require-
ments to a crowdfunding vehicle adviser.’’;
and
(3) in section 203A(a) (15 U.S.C. 80b–3a(a))—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘or’’ at
the end;
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) is a crowdfunding vehicle adviser.’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘a
crowdfunding vehicle adviser,’’ after ‘‘unless
the investment adviser is’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B)(ii), in the matter
preceding subclause (I), by inserting ‘‘except
with respect to a crowdfunding vehicle ad-
viser,’’ before ‘‘has assets’’.
SEC. 3. CROWDFUNDING EXEMPTION FROM REG-
ISTRATION.
Section 12(g)(6) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78l(g)(6)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘The Commission’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission’’;
(2) in subparagraph (A), as so designated,
by striking ‘‘section 4(6)’’ and inserting ‘‘sec-
tion 4(a)(6)’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) TREATMENT OF SECURITIES ISSUED BY
CERTAIN ISSUERS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—An exemption under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be unconditional for se-
curities offered by an issuer that had a pub-
lic float of less than $75,000,000, as of the last
business day of the most recently completed
semiannual period of the issuer, which shall
be calculated in accordance with clause (ii).
‘‘(ii) CALCULATION.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—A public float described
in clause (i) shall be calculated by multi-
plying the aggregate worldwide number of
shares of the common equity securities of an
issuer that are held by non-affiliates by the
price at which those securities were last sold
(or the average bid and asked prices of those
securities) in the principal market for those
securities.
‘‘(II) CALCULATION OF ZERO.—If a public
float calculation under subclause (I) with re-
spect to an issuer is zero, an exemption
under subparagraph (A) shall be uncondi-
tional for securities offered by the issuer if
the issuer had annual revenues of less than
$50,000,000, as of the most recently completed
fiscal year of the issuer.’’.
SEC. 4. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act or the amendments
made by this Act may be construed to allow
an issuer or a crowdfunding vehicle to offer
or sell securities in excess of the limitation
described under section 4(a)(6) of the Securi-
ties Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77d(a)(6)).
SEC. 5. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. DAVID SCOTT) and the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MCHENRY) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Georgia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members may have 5 legislative
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.043 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8494 October 28, 2019
days in which to revise and extend
their remarks on this legislation and
to insert extraneous materials therein.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
First of all, Mr. Speaker, I would like
to thank our ranking member of the
Financial Services Committee, Rep-
resentative MCHENRY, for his efforts in
crafting this very important piece of
legislation to help startups finance
their operations while still protecting
the investors who entrust their hard-
earned funds to those companies.
Equity crowdfunding is a high-risk,
high-reward investment that allows
hundreds, or even thousands, of retail
investors to invest in startup compa-
nies. But because of the unique and
heightened risks posed by crowdfund-
ing, Congress and the Securities and
Exchange Commission have put in
place guardrails to prevent these less-
sophisticated investors from suffering
financial ruin while still being able to
access this area of the market.
Now, in 2012, Congress cautiously ap-
proached equity crowdfunding by cre-
ating a number of investor protections
in the Jumpstart Our Business
Startups Act, or the JOBS Act.
The SEC followed our directions and
finalized a crowdfunding rule that pro-
tects investors by setting reasonable
investment limits based on income and
provides helpful disclosures for inves-
tors to weigh the risks.
This bill aims to enhance the inves-
tor and company experience in crowd-
funding by authorizing crowdfunding
vehicles to pool investors together, al-
lowing them to make joint investments
totaling $1 million in a single business.
These vehicles would be advised by a
registered investment adviser with a fi-
duciary duty to act in the best inter-
ests of the fund. Importantly, the in-
vestors would have the same rights to
sue companies as if they had directly
invested in the company itself—a very,
very important point, Mr. Speaker.
b 1645
This bill also clarifies that as long as
a crowdfunding company continues to
make ongoing disclosures to investors
required under SEC’s rule, it would not
have to make the more detailed public
reports until it had either a $75 million
value or $50 million in revenue. This
change is consistent with the levels set
under Regulation A, another exempt
offering sold to retail investors.
I am very pleased that the bill also
incorporates targeted improvements to
crowdfunding for all investors and
start-ups and lacks problematic provi-
sions that were opposed by consumer
advocates like the Consumer Federa-
tion of America in previous Congresses,
including additional changes that
Chairwoman WATERS and our ranking
member agreed on this Congress.
Although crowdfunding should be
viewed as highly risky in terms of in-
vestment, especially for retail inves-
tors, this bill will ensure a larger
choice of high-quality crowdfunding
companies and a higher degree of fi-
nance savvy for investors. And, in addi-
tion, it may help to ensure compliance
with regulation crowdfunding.
Mr. MCHENRY. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. I yield
to the gentleman from North Carolina.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank the gentleman for his sup-
port, and I want to thank the chair-
woman of the House Financial Services
Committee for her support as well. I
am grateful for the work of Chair-
woman WATERS and her Financial
Services Committee staff for the hard
work they have put in to protect inves-
tors and help small businesses.
Mr. Speaker, I will include in the
RECORD a letter from Republic in sup-
port of the bill.
Mr. MCHENRY. Mr. Speaker, I in-
clude the remainder of my statement
in the RECORD.
I am pleased the House is taking up my leg-
islation and I would like to thank the gentle-
woman from California, the Chairwoman of the
Financial Services Committee, for her co-
sponsorship of this bill.
We have worked together on this bill for
three Congresses now.
I appreciate all the hard work that she and
her staff have done to make this a bill that
works to protect investors and promote small
businesses, particularly in communities that
are being left behind.
We all agree small businesses and entre-
preneurs are America’s true job creators.
This is especially true in communities I rep-
resent in western North Carolina.
But today, America’s small businesses are
still struggling to find capital. Small business
lending from traditional banks continues to de-
cline, and small business loans in America’s
small towns are less than half it was merely
fifteen years ago.
Investment crowdfunding is one way we can
reverse this concerning trend.
In 2012, I wrote the original bill to legalize
investment-based crowdfunding, making it
easier for businesses to raise capital.
That bill became part of the JOBS Act. Un-
fortunately, the SEC’s final rule contained seri-
ous structural flaws that require Congress’s
immediate attention.
In particular, crowdfunding is suffering from
the so-called ‘‘12-g problem.’’ The ‘‘12 g prob-
lem’’ refers to a section of the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934, which subjects
crowdfunded companies to requirements simi-
lar to a public company, but at a very low
asset threshold.
Our proposed amendment fixes the ‘‘12-g
problem’’ by raising the asset threshold for
both small businesses that already have rev-
enue, and for those startups that do not. This
makes it more likely that high-growth compa-
nies will consider crowdfunding as an option
for raising capital.
Another significant problem for crowdfunding
is that, under the SEC rule, single purpose
funds are not permitted.
Single purpose funds allow Main street in-
vestors to invest along with more sophisticated
lead investors who have an obligation to advo-
cate for their best interests.
That means better terms and greater trans-
parency for the investors.
A single purpose fund also improves the
capitalization table for companies that hope to
attract venture capital in the future.
Although the bill does not include everything
I would have hoped, we worked hard to find
a compromise that addresses the most urgent
problems with investment crowdfunding that
need correcting now.
To that end, I want to thank Chairwoman
WATERS again for her continued support on
this important, bipartisan compromise.
This bill shows that we can work together in
a bipartisan way to help American small busi-
nesses in seeking to raise capital by con-
necting folks not just in their local commu-
nities, but across America.
I am pleased that this legislation enjoys sup-
port from my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle.
I urge my colleagues to join us in support of
this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Speaker, I urge all Members to vote for
this bill, and I want to commend the
ranking member for his excellent
work.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr.
DAVID SCOTT) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4860, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
COORDINATING OVERSIGHT, UP-
GRADING AND INNOVATING
TECHNOLOGY, AND EXAMINER
REFORM ACT OF 2019
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and pass the bill (H.R. 2514) to make re-
forms to the Federal Bank Secrecy Act
and anti-money laundering laws, and
for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2514
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Coordinating Oversight, Upgrading and
Innovating Technology, and Examiner Re-
form Act of 2019’’ or the ‘‘COUNTER Act of
2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Bank Secrecy Act definition.
Sec. 3. Determination of Budgetary Effects.
TITLE I—STRENGTHENING TREASURY
Sec. 101. Improving the definition and pur-
pose of the Bank Secrecy Act.
Sec. 102. Special hiring authority.
Sec. 103. Civil Liberties and Privacy Officer.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.045 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8495
October 28, 2019
Sec. 104. Civil Liberties and Privacy Coun-
cil.
Sec. 105. International coordination.
Sec. 106. Treasury Attachés Program.
Sec. 107. Increasing technical assistance for
international cooperation.
Sec. 108. FinCEN Domestic Liaisons.
Sec. 109. FinCEN Exchange.
Sec. 110. Study and strategy on trade-based
money laundering.
Sec. 111. Study and strategy on de-risking.
Sec. 112. AML examination authority dele-
gation study.
Sec. 113. Study and strategy on Chinese
money laundering.
TITLE II—IMPROVING AML/CFT
OVERSIGHT
Sec. 201. Pilot program on sharing of sus-
picious activity reports within
a financial group.
Sec. 202. Sharing of compliance resources.
Sec. 203. GAO Study on feedback loops.
Sec. 204. FinCEN study on BSA value.
Sec. 205. Sharing of threat pattern and trend
information.
Sec. 206. Modernization and upgrading whis-
tleblower protections.
Sec. 207. Certain violators barred from serv-
ing on boards of United States
financial institutions.
Sec. 208. Additional damages for repeat
Bank Secrecy Act violators.
Sec. 209. Justice annual report on deferred
and non-prosecution agree-
ments.
Sec. 210. Return of profits and bonuses.
Sec. 211. Application of Bank Secrecy Act to
dealers in antiquities.
Sec. 212. Geographic targeting order.
Sec. 213. Study and revisions to currency
transaction reports and sus-
picious activity reports.
Sec. 214. Streamlining requirements for cur-
rency transaction reports and
suspicious activity reports.
TITLE III—MODERNIZING THE AML
SYSTEM
Sec. 301. Encouraging innovation in BSA
compliance.
Sec. 302. Innovation Labs.
Sec. 303. Innovation Council.
Sec. 304. Testing methods rulemaking.
Sec. 305. FinCEN study on use of emerging
technologies.
Sec. 306. Discretionary surplus funds.
SEC. 2. BANK SECRECY ACT DEFINITION.
Section 5312(a) of title 31, United States
Code, is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(7) BANK SECRECY ACT.—The term ‘Bank
Secrecy act’ means—
‘‘(A) section 21 of the Federal Deposit In-
surance Act;
‘‘(B) chapter 2 of title I of Public Law 91–
508; and
‘‘(C) this subchapter.’’.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
TITLE I—STRENGTHENING TREASURY
SEC. 101. IMPROVING THE DEFINITION AND PUR-
POSE OF THE BANK SECRECY ACT.
Section 5311 of title 31, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘to protect our national
security, to safeguard the integrity of the
international financial system, and’’ before
‘‘to require’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘to law enforcement and’’
before ‘‘in criminal’’.
SEC. 102. SPECIAL HIRING AUTHORITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 310 of title 31,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (d) as sub-
section (g); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (c) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(d) SPECIAL HIRING AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Treasury may appoint, without regard to the
provisions of sections 3309 through 3318 of
title 5, candidates directly to positions in
the competitive service (as defined in section
2102 of that title) in FinCEN.
‘‘(2) PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES.—The pri-
mary responsibility of candidates appointed
pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be to provide
substantive support in support of the duties
described in subparagraphs (A), (B), (E), and
(F) of subsection (b)(2).’’.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 360 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, and every
year thereafter for 7 years, the Director of
the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
shall submit a report to the Committee on
Financial Services of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate
that includes—
(1) the number of new employees hired
since the preceding report through the au-
thorities described under section 310(d) of
title 31, United States Code, along with posi-
tion titles and associated pay grades for such
hires; and
(2) a copy of any Federal Government sur-
vey of staff perspectives at the Office of Ter-
rorism and Financial Intelligence, including
findings regarding the Office and the Finan-
cial Crimes Enforcement Network from the
most recently administered Federal Em-
ployee Viewpoint Survey.
SEC. 103. CIVIL LIBERTIES AND PRIVACY OFFI-
CER.
(a) APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.—Not later
than the end of the 3-month period beginning
on the date of enactment of this Act, a Civil
Liberties and Privacy Officer shall be ap-
pointed, from among individuals who are at-
torneys with expertise in data privacy laws—
(1) within each Federal functional regu-
lator, by the head of the Federal functional
regulator;
(2) within the Financial Crimes Enforce-
ment Network, by the Secretary of the
Treasury; and
(3) within the Internal Revenue Service
Small Business and Self-Employed Tax Cen-
ter, by the Secretary of the Treasury.
(b) DUTIES.—Each Civil Liberties and Pri-
vacy Officer shall, with respect to the appli-
cable regulator, Network, or Center within
which the Officer is located—
(1) be consulted each time Bank Secrecy
Act or anti-money laundering regulations af-
fecting civil liberties or privacy are devel-
oped or reviewed;
(2) be consulted on information-sharing
programs, including those that provide ac-
cess to personally identifiable information;
(3) ensure coordination and clarity between
anti-money laundering, civil liberties, and
privacy regulations;
(4) contribute to the evaluation and regula-
tion of new technologies that may strength-
en data privacy and the protection of person-
ally identifiable information collected by
each Federal functional regulator; and
(5) develop metrics of program success.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sec-
tion:
(1) BANK SECRECY ACT.—The term ‘‘Bank
Secrecy Act’’ has the meaning given that
term under section 5312 of title 31, United
States Code.
(2) FEDERAL FUNCTIONAL REGULATOR.—The
term ‘‘Federal functional regulator’’ means
the Board of Governors of the Federal Re-
serve System, the Comptroller of the Cur-
rency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration, the National Credit Union Admin-
istration, the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission, and the Commodity Futures Trad-
ing Commission.
SEC. 104. CIVIL LIBERTIES AND PRIVACY COUN-
CIL.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
the Civil Liberties and Privacy Council
(hereinafter in this section referred to as the
‘‘Council’’), which shall consist of the Civil
Liberties and Privacy Officers appointed pur-
suant to section 103.
(b) CHAIR.—The Director of the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network shall serve as
the Chair of the Council.
(c) DUTY.—The members of the Council
shall coordinate on activities related to
their duties as Civil Liberties Privacy Offi-
cers, but may not supplant the individual
agency determinations on civil liberties and
privacy.
(d) MEETINGS.—The meetings of the Coun-
cil—
(1) shall be at the call of the Chair, but in
no case may the Council meet less than
quarterly;
(2) may include open and partially closed
sessions, as determined necessary by the
Council; and
(3) shall include participation by public
and private entities, law enforcement agen-
cies, and a representative of State bank su-
pervisors (as defined under section 3 of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1813)).
(e) REPORT.—The Chair of the Council shall
issue an annual report to the Congress on the
program and policy activities, including the
success of programs as measured by metrics
of program success developed pursuant to
section 103(b)(5), of the Council during the
previous year and any legislative rec-
ommendations that the Council may have.
(f) NONAPPLICABILITY OF FACA.—The Fed-
eral Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.)
shall not apply to the Council.
SEC. 105. INTERNATIONAL COORDINATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Treasury shall work with the Secretary’s
foreign counterparts, including through the
Financial Action Task Force, the Inter-
national Monetary Fund, the World Bank,
the Egmont Group of Financial Intelligence
Units, the Organisation for Economic Co-op-
eration and Development, and the United
Nations, to promote stronger anti-money
laundering frameworks and enforcement of
anti-money laundering laws.
(b) COOPERATION GOAL.—In carrying out
subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury
may work directly with foreign counterparts
and other organizations where the goal of co-
operation can best be met.
(c) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND.—
(1) SUPPORT FOR CAPACITY OF THE INTER-
NATIONAL MONETARY FUND TO PREVENT MONEY
LAUNDERING AND FINANCING OF TERRORISM.—
Title XVI of the International Financial In-
stitutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262p et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 1629. SUPPORT FOR CAPACITY OF THE
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
TO PREVENT MONEY LAUNDERING
AND FINANCING OF TERRORISM.
‘‘The Secretary of the Treasury shall in-
struct the United States Executive Director
at the International Monetary Fund to sup-
port the increased use of the administrative
budget of the Fund for technical assistance
that strengthens the capacity of Fund mem-
bers to prevent money laundering and the fi-
nancing of terrorism.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.024 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8496 October 28, 2019
(2) NATIONAL ADVISORY COUNCIL REPORT TO
CONGRESS.—The Chairman of the National
Advisory Council on International Monetary
and Financial Policies shall include in the
report required by section 1701 of the Inter-
national Financial Institutions Act (22
U.S.C. 262r) a description of—
(A) the activities of the International Mon-
etary Fund in the most recently completed
fiscal year to provide technical assistance
that strengthens the capacity of Fund mem-
bers to prevent money laundering and the fi-
nancing of terrorism, and the effectiveness of
the assistance; and
(B) the efficacy of efforts by the United
States to support such technical assistance
through the use of the Fund’s administrative
budget, and the level of such support.
(3) SUNSET.—Effective on the date that is
the end of the 4-year period beginning on the
date of enactment of this Act, section 1629 of
the International Financial Institutions Act,
as added by paragraph (1), is repealed.
SEC. 106. TREASURY ATTACHÉS PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title 31, United States
Code, is amended by inserting after section
315 the following:
‘‘§ 316. Treasury Attachés Program
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Treasury Attachés Program, under which
the Secretary of the Treasury shall appoint
employees of the Department of the Treas-
ury, after nomination by the Director of the
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
(‘FinCEN’), as a Treasury attaché, who
shall—
‘‘(1) be knowledgeable about the Bank Se-
crecy Act and anti-money laundering issues;
‘‘(2) be co-located in a United States em-
bassy;
‘‘(3) perform outreach with respect to Bank
Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering
issues;
‘‘(4) establish and maintain relationships
with foreign counterparts, including employ-
ees of ministries of finance, central banks,
and other relevant official entities;
‘‘(5) conduct outreach to local and foreign
financial institutions and other commercial
actors, including—
‘‘(A) information exchanges through
FinCEN and FinCEN programs; and
‘‘(B) soliciting buy-in and cooperation for
the implementation of—
‘‘(i) United States and multilateral sanc-
tions; and
‘‘(ii) international standards on anti-
money laundering and the countering of the
financing of terrorism; and
‘‘(6) perform such other actions as the Sec-
retary determines appropriate.
‘‘(b) NUMBER OF ATTACHÉS.—The number of
Treasury attachés appointed under this sec-
tion at any one time shall be not fewer than
6 more employees than the number of em-
ployees of the Department of the Treasury
serving as Treasury attachés on March 1,
2019.
‘‘(c) COMPENSATION.—Each Treasury
attaché appointed under this section and lo-
cated at a United States embassy shall re-
ceive compensation at the higher of—
‘‘(1) the rate of compensation provided to a
Foreign Service officer at a comparable ca-
reer level serving at the same embassy; or
‘‘(2) the rate of compensation the Treasury
attaché would otherwise have received, ab-
sent the application of this subsection.
‘‘(d) BANK SECRECY ACT DEFINED.—In this
section, the term ‘Bank Secrecy Act’ has the
meaning given that term under section
5312.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents for chapter 3 of title 31, United
States Code, is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 315 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘316. Treasury Attachés Program.’’.
SEC. 107. INCREASING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FOR INTERNATIONAL COOPERA-
TION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to be
appropriated for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2024 to the Secretary of the Treas-
ury for purposes of providing technical as-
sistance that promotes compliance with
international standards and best practices,
including in particular those aimed at the
establishment of effective anti-money laun-
dering and countering the financing of ter-
rorism regimes, in an amount equal to twice
the amount authorized for such purpose for
fiscal year 2019.
(b) ACTIVITY AND EVALUATION REPORT.—
Not later than 360 days after enactment of
this Act, and every year thereafter for five
years, the Secretary of the Treasury shall
issue a report to the Congress on the assist-
ance (as described under subsection (a)) of
the Office of Technical Assistance of the De-
partment of the Treasury containing—
(1) a narrative detailing the strategic goals
of the Office in the previous year, with an ex-
planation of how technical assistance pro-
vided in the previous year advances the
goals;
(2) a description of technical assistance
provided by the Office in the previous year,
including the objectives and delivery meth-
ods of the assistance;
(3) a list of beneficiaries and providers
(other than Office staff) of the technical as-
sistance;
(4) a description of how technical assist-
ance provided by the Office complements,
duplicates, or otherwise affects or is affected
by technical assistance provided by the
international financial institutions (as de-
fined under section 1701(c) of the Inter-
national Financial Institutions Act); and
(5) a copy of any Federal Government sur-
vey of staff perspectives at the Office of
Technical Assistance, including any findings
regarding the Office from the most recently
administered Federal Employee Viewpoint
Survey.
SEC. 108. FINCEN DOMESTIC LIAISONS.
Section 310 of title 31, United States Code,
as amended by section 102, is further amend-
ed by inserting after subsection (d) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(e) FINCEN DOMESTIC LIAISONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of FinCEN
shall appoint at least 6 senior FinCEN em-
ployees as FinCEN Domestic Liaisons, who
shall—
‘‘(A) each be assigned to focus on a specific
region of the United States;
‘‘(B) be located at an office in such region
(or co-located at an office of the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System in
such region); and
‘‘(C) perform outreach to BSA officers at
financial institutions (including non-bank fi-
nancial institutions) and persons who are
not financial institutions, especially with re-
spect to actions taken by FinCEN that re-
quire specific actions by, or have specific ef-
fects on, such institutions or persons, as de-
termined by the Director.
‘‘(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
‘‘(A) BSA OFFICER.—The term ‘BSA officer’
means an employee of a financial institution
whose primary job responsibility involves
compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, as
such term is defined under section 5312.
‘‘(B) FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.—The term ‘fi-
nancial institution’ has the meaning given
that term under section 5312.’’.
SEC. 109. FINCEN EXCHANGE.
Section 310 of title 31, United States Code,
as amended by section 108, is further amend-
ed by inserting after subsection (e) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(f) FINCEN EXCHANGE.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The FinCEN Ex-
change is hereby established within FinCEN,
which shall consist of the FinCEN Exchange
program of FinCEN in existence on the day
before the date of enactment of this para-
graph.
‘‘(2) PURPOSE.—The FinCEN Exchange
shall facilitate a voluntary public-private in-
formation sharing partnership among law
enforcement, financial institutions, and
FinCEN to—
‘‘(A) effectively and efficiently combat
money laundering, terrorism financing, or-
ganized crime, and other financial crimes;
‘‘(B) protect the financial system from il-
licit use; and
‘‘(C) promote national security.
‘‘(3) REPORT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of enactment of this sub-
section, and annually thereafter for the next
five years, the Secretary of the Treasury
shall submit to the Committee on Financial
Services of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs of the Senate a report con-
taining—
‘‘(i) an analysis of the efforts undertaken
by the FinCEN Exchange and the results of
such efforts;
‘‘(ii) an analysis of the extent and effec-
tiveness of the FinCEN Exchange, including
any benefits realized by law enforcement
from partnership with financial institutions;
and
‘‘(iii) any legislative, administrative, or
other recommendations the Secretary may
have to strengthen FinCEN Exchange ef-
forts.
‘‘(B) CLASSIFIED ANNEX.—Each report under
subparagraph (A) may include a classified
annex.
‘‘(4) INFORMATION SHARING REQUIREMENT.—
Information shared pursuant to this sub-
section shall be shared in compliance with
all other applicable Federal laws and regula-
tions.
‘‘(5) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing
under this subsection may be construed to
create new information sharing authorities
related to the Bank Secrecy Act (as such
term is defined under section 5312 of title 31,
United States Code).
‘‘(6) FINANCIAL INSTITUTION DEFINED.—In
this subsection, the term ‘financial institu-
tion’ has the meaning given that term under
section 5312.’’.
SEC. 110. STUDY AND STRATEGY ON TRADE-
BASED MONEY LAUNDERING.
(a) STUDY.—The Secretary of the Treasury
shall carry out a study, in consultation with
appropriate private sector stakeholders and
Federal departments and agencies, on trade-
based money laundering.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the
1-year period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall
issue a report to the Congress containing—
(1) all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the study required under sub-
section (a); and
(2) proposed strategies to combat trade-
based money laundering.
(c) CLASSIFIED ANNEX.—The report required
under this section may include a classified
annex.
(d) CONTRACTING AUTHORITY.—The Sec-
retary may contract with a private third-
party to carry out the study required under
this section. The authority of the Secretary
to enter into contracts under this subsection
shall be in effect for each fiscal year only to
the extent and in the amounts as are pro-
vided in advance in appropriations Acts.
SEC. 111. STUDY AND STRATEGY ON DE-RISKING.
(a) REVIEW.—The Secretary of the Treas-
ury, in consultation with appropriate private
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.024 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8497
October 28, 2019
sector stakeholders, examiners, the Federal
functional regulators (as defined under sec-
tion 103), State bank supervisors, and other
relevant stakeholders, shall undertake a for-
mal review of—
(1) any adverse consequences of financial
institutions de-risking entire categories of
relationships, including charities, embassy
accounts, money services businesses (as de-
fined under section 1010.100(ff) of title 31,
Code of Federal Regulations) and their
agents, countries, international and domes-
tic regions, and respondent banks;
(2) the reasons why financial institutions
are engaging in de-risking;
(3) the association with and effects of de-
risking on money laundering and financial
crime actors and activities;
(4) the most appropriate ways to promote
financial inclusion, particularly with respect
to developing countries, while maintaining
compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act, in-
cluding an assessment of policy options to—
(A) more effectively tailor Federal actions
and penalties to the size of foreign financial
institutions and any capacity limitations of
foreign governments; and
(B) reduce compliance costs that may lead
to the adverse consequences described in
paragraph (1);
(5) formal and informal feedback provided
by examiners that may have led to de-risk-
ing;
(6) the relationship between resources dedi-
cated to compliance and overall sophistica-
tion of compliance efforts at entities that
may be experiencing de-risking versus those
that have not experienced de-risking; and
(7) any best practices from the private sec-
tor that facilitate correspondent bank rela-
tionships.
(b) DE-RISKING STRATEGY.—The Secretary
shall develop a strategy to reduce de-risking
and adverse consequences related to de-risk-
ing.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the
1-year period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in con-
sultation with the Federal functional regu-
lators, State bank supervisors, and other rel-
evant stakeholders, shall issue a report to
the Congress containing—
(1) all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the study required under sub-
section (a); and
(2) the strategy developed pursuant to sub-
section (b).
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) DE-RISKING.—The term ‘‘de-risking’’
means the wholesale closing of accounts or
limiting of financial services for a category
of customer due to unsubstantiated risk as it
relates to compliance with the Bank Secrecy
Act.
(2) BSA TERMS.—The terms ‘‘Bank Secrecy
Act’’ and ‘‘financial institution’’ have the
meaning given those terms, respectively,
under section 5312 off title 31, United States
Code.
(3) STATE BANK SUPERVISOR.—The term
‘‘State bank supervisor’’ has the meaning
given that term under section 3 of the Fed-
eral Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
SEC. 112. AML EXAMINATION AUTHORITY DELE-
GATION STUDY.
(a) STUDY.—The Secretary of the Treasury
shall carry out a study, in consultation with
State bank supervisors (as defined under sec-
tion 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
(12 U.S.C. 1813)), and other relevant stake-
holders, on the Secretary’s delegation of ex-
amination authority under the Bank Secrecy
Act, including—
(1) an evaluation of the efficacy of the del-
egation, especially with respect to the mis-
sion of the Bank Secrecy Act;
(2) whether the delegated agencies have ap-
propriate resources to perform their dele-
gated responsibilities; and
(3) whether the examiners in delegated
agencies have sufficient training and support
to perform their responsibilities.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than one year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of the Treasury shall submit to the
Committee on Financial Services of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of
the Senate a report containing—
(1) all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the study required under sub-
section (a); and
(2) recommendations to improve the effi-
cacy of delegation authority, including the
potential for de-delegation of any or all such
authority where it may be appropriate.
(c) BANK SECRECY ACT DEFINED.—The term
‘‘Bank Secrecy Act’’ has the meaning given
that term under section 5312 off title 31,
United States Code.
SEC. 113. STUDY AND STRATEGY ON CHINESE
MONEY LAUNDERING.
(a) STUDY.—The Secretary of the Treasury
shall carry out a study on the extent and ef-
fect of Chinese money laundering activities
in the United States, including territories
and possessions of the United States, and
worldwide.
(b) STRATEGY TO COMBAT CHINESE MONEY
LAUNDERING.—Upon the completion of the
study required under subsection (a), the Sec-
retary shall, in consultation with such other
Federal departments and agencies as the
Secretary determines appropriate, develop a
strategy to combat Chinese money laun-
dering activities.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the
1-year period beginning on the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treas-
ury shall issue a report to Congress con-
taining—
(1) all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the study required under sub-
section (a); and
(2) the strategy developed under subsection
(b).
TITLE II—IMPROVING AML/CFT
OVERSIGHT
SEC. 201. PILOT PROGRAM ON SHARING OF SUS-
PICIOUS ACTIVITY REPORTS WITHIN
A FINANCIAL GROUP.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) SHARING WITH FOREIGN BRANCHES AND
AFFILIATES.—Section 5318(g) of title 31,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(5) PILOT PROGRAM ON SHARING WITH FOR-
EIGN BRANCHES, SUBSIDIARIES, AND AFFILI-
ATES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Treasury shall issue rules establishing the
pilot program described under subparagraph
(B), subject to such controls and restrictions
as the Director of the Financial Crimes En-
forcement Network determines appropriate,
including controls and restrictions regarding
participation by financial institutions and
jurisdictions in the pilot program. In pre-
scribing such rules, the Secretary shall en-
sure that the sharing of information de-
scribed under such subparagraph (B) is sub-
ject to appropriate standards and require-
ments regarding data security and the con-
fidentiality of personally identifiable infor-
mation.
‘‘(B) PILOT PROGRAM DESCRIBED.—The pilot
program required under this paragraph
shall—
‘‘(i) permit a financial institution with a
reporting obligation under this subsection to
share reports (and information on such re-
ports) under this subsection with the institu-
tion’s foreign branches, subsidiaries, and af-
filiates for the purpose of combating illicit
finance risks, notwithstanding any other
provision of law except subparagraphs (A)
and (C);
‘‘(ii) terminate on the date that is five
years after the date of enactment of this
paragraph, except that the Secretary may
extend the pilot program for up to two years
upon submitting a report to the Committee
on Financial Services of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate
that includes—
‘‘(I) a certification that the extension is in
the national interest of the United States,
with a detailed explanation of the reasons
therefor;
‘‘(II) an evaluation of the usefulness of the
pilot program, including a detailed analysis
of any illicit activity identified or prevented
as a result of the program; and
‘‘(III) a detailed legislative proposal pro-
viding for a long-term extension of the pilot
program activities, including expected budg-
etary resources for the activities, if the Sec-
retary determines that a long-term exten-
sion is appropriate.
‘‘(C) PROHIBITION INVOLVING CERTAIN JURIS-
DICTIONS.—In issuing the regulations re-
quired under subparagraph (A), the Sec-
retary may not permit a financial institu-
tion to share information on reports under
this subsection with a foreign branch, sub-
sidiary, or affiliate located in—
‘‘(i) the People’s Republic of China;
‘‘(ii) the Russian Federation; or
‘‘(iii) a jurisdiction that—
‘‘(I) is subject to countermeasures imposed
by the Federal Government;
‘‘(II) is a state sponsor of terrorism; or
‘‘(III) the Secretary has determined cannot
reasonably protect the privacy and confiden-
tiality of such information or would other-
wise use such information in a manner that
is not consistent with the national interest
of the United States.
‘‘(D) IMPLEMENTATION UPDATES.—Not later
than 360 days after the date rules are issued
under subparagraph (A), and annually there-
after for three years, the Secretary, or the
Secretary’s designee, shall brief the Com-
mittee on Financial Services of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate on—
‘‘(i) the degree of any information sharing
permitted under the pilot program, and a de-
scription of criteria used by the Secretary to
evaluate the appropriateness of the informa-
tion sharing;
‘‘(ii) the effectiveness of the pilot program
in identifying or preventing the violation of
a United States law or regulation, and mech-
anisms that may improve such effectiveness;
and
‘‘(iii) any recommendations to amend the
design of the pilot program.
‘‘(E) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this paragraph shall be construed as limiting
the Secretary’s authority under provisions of
law other than this paragraph to establish
other permissible purposes or methods for a
financial institution sharing reports (and in-
formation on such reports) under this sub-
section with the institution’s foreign head-
quarters or with other branches of the same
institution.
‘‘(F) NOTICE OF USE OF OTHER AUTHORITY.—
If the Secretary, pursuant to any authority
other than that provided under this para-
graph, permits a financial institution to
share information on reports under this sub-
section with a foreign branch, subsidiary, or
affiliate located in a foreign jurisdiction, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.024 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8498 October 28, 2019
Secretary shall notify the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services of the House of Representa-
tives and the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs of such permission
and the applicable foreign jurisdiction.
‘‘(6) TREATMENT OF FOREIGN JURISDICTION-
ORIGINATED REPORTS.—A report received by a
financial institution from a foreign affiliate
with respect to a suspicious transaction rel-
evant to a possible violation of law or regu-
lation shall be subject to the same confiden-
tiality requirements provided under this sub-
section for a report of a suspicious trans-
action described under paragraph (1).’’.
(2) NOTIFICATION PROHIBITIONS.—Section
5318(g)(2)(A) of title 31, United States Code,
is amended—
(A) in clause (i), by inserting after ‘‘trans-
action has been reported’’ the following: ‘‘or
otherwise reveal any information that would
reveal that the transaction has been re-
ported’’; and
(B) in clause (ii), by inserting after ‘‘trans-
action has been reported,’’ the following: ‘‘or
otherwise reveal any information that would
reveal that the transaction has been re-
ported,’’.
(b) RULEMAKING.—Not later than the end of
the 360-day period beginning on the date of
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
Treasury shall issue regulations to carry out
the amendments made by this section.
SEC. 202. SHARING OF COMPLIANCE RESOURCES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5318 of title 31,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(o) SHARING OF COMPLIANCE RESOURCES.—
‘‘(1) SHARING PERMITTED.—Two or more fi-
nancial institutions may enter into collabo-
rative arrangements in order to more effi-
ciently comply with the requirements of this
subchapter.
‘‘(2) OUTREACH.—The Secretary of the
Treasury and the appropriate supervising
agencies shall carry out an outreach pro-
gram to provide financial institutions with
information, including best practices, with
respect to the sharing of resources described
under paragraph (1).’’.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—The amend-
ment made by subsection (a) may not be con-
strued to require financial institutions to
share resources.
SEC. 203. GAO STUDY ON FEEDBACK LOOPS.
(a) STUDY.—The Comptroller General of
the United States shall carry out a study
on—
(1) best practices within the United States
Government for providing feedback (‘‘feed-
back loop’’) to relevant parties (including
regulated private entities) on the usage and
usefulness of personally identifiable informa-
tion (‘‘PII’’), sensitive-but-unclassified
(‘‘SBU’’) data, or similar information pro-
vided by such parties to Government users of
such information and data (including law en-
forcement or regulators); and
(2) any practices or standards inside or
outside the United States for providing feed-
back through sensitive information and pub-
lic-private partnership information sharing
efforts, specifically related to efforts to com-
bat money laundering and other forms of il-
licit finance.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the
18-month period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller Gen-
eral shall issue a report to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate and the Committee on Financial
Services of the House of Representatives
containing—
(1) all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the study required under sub-
section (a);
(2) with respect to each of paragraphs (1)
and (2) of subsection (a), any best practices
or significant concerns identified by the
Comptroller General, and their applicability
to public-private partnerships and feedback
loops with respect to U.S. efforts to combat
money laundering and other forms of illicit
finance; and
(3) recommendations to reduce or elimi-
nate any unnecessary Government collection
of the information described under sub-
section (a)(1).
SEC. 204. FINCEN STUDY ON BSA VALUE.
(a) STUDY.—The Director of the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network shall carry out
a study on Bank Secrecy Act value.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the
30-day period beginning on the date the
study under subsection (a) is completed, the
Director shall issue a report to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate containing all findings and deter-
minations made in carrying out the study re-
quired under this section.
(c) CLASSIFIED ANNEX.—The report required
under this section may include a classified
annex, if the Director determines it appro-
priate.
(d) BANK SECRECY ACT DEFINED.—For pur-
poses of this section, the term ‘‘Bank Se-
crecy Act’’ has the meaning given that term
under section 5312 of title 31, United States
Code.
SEC. 205. SHARING OF THREAT PATTERN AND
TREND INFORMATION.
Section 5318(g) of title 31, United States
Code, as amended by section 201(a)(1), is fur-
ther amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(7) SHARING OF THREAT PATTERN AND
TREND INFORMATION.—
‘‘(A) SAR ACTIVITY REVIEW.—The Director
of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Net-
work shall restart publication of the ‘SAR
Activity Review – Trends, Tips & Issues’, on
not less than a semi-annual basis, to provide
meaningful information about the prepara-
tion, use, and value of reports filed under
this subsection by financial institutions, as
well as other reports filed by financial insti-
tutions under the Bank Secrecy Act.
‘‘(B) INCLUSION OF TYPOLOGIES.—In each
publication described under subparagraph
(A), the Director shall provide financial in-
stitutions with typologies, including data
that can be adapted in algorithms (including
for artificial intelligence and machine learn-
ing programs) where appropriate, on emerg-
ing money laundering and counter terror fi-
nancing threat patterns and trends.
‘‘(C) TYPOLOGY DEFINED.—For purposes of
this paragraph, the term ‘typology’ means
the various techniques used to launder
money or finance terrorism.’’.
SEC. 206. MODERNIZATION AND UPGRADING
WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTIONS.
(a) REWARDS.—Section 5323(d) of title 31,
United States Code, is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘(d) SOURCE OF REWARDS.—For the pur-
poses of paying a reward under this section,
the Secretary may, subject to amounts made
available in advance by appropriation Acts,
use criminal fine, civil penalty, or forfeiture
amounts recovered based on the original in-
formation with respect to which the reward
is being paid.’’.
(b) WHISTLEBLOWER INCENTIVES.—
Chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) by inserting after section 5323 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘§ 5323A. Whistleblower incentives
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) COVERED JUDICIAL OR ADMINISTRATIVE
ACTION.—The term ‘covered judicial or ad-
ministrative action’ means any judicial or
administrative action brought by FinCEN
under the Bank Secrecy Act that results in
monetary sanctions exceeding $1,000,000.
‘‘(2) FINCEN.—The term ‘FinCEN’ means
the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
‘‘(3) MONETARY SANCTIONS.—The term
‘monetary sanctions’, when used with re-
spect to any judicial or administrative ac-
tion, means—
‘‘(A) any monies, including penalties,
disgorgement, and interest, ordered to be
paid; and
‘‘(B) any monies deposited into a
disgorgement fund as a result of such action
or any settlement of such action.
‘‘(4) ORIGINAL INFORMATION.—The term
‘original information’ means information
that—
‘‘(A) is derived from the independent
knowledge or analysis of a whistleblower;
‘‘(B) is not known to FinCEN from any
other source, unless the whistleblower is the
original source of the information; and
‘‘(C) is not exclusively derived from an al-
legation made in a judicial or administrative
hearing, in a governmental report, hearing,
audit, or investigation, or from the news
media, unless the whistleblower is a source
of the information.
‘‘(5) RELATED ACTION.—The term ‘related
action’, when used with respect to any judi-
cial or administrative action brought by
FinCEN, means any judicial or administra-
tive action that is based upon original infor-
mation provided by a whistleblower that led
to the successful enforcement of the action.
‘‘(6) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’
means the Secretary of the Treasury.
‘‘(7) WHISTLEBLOWER.—The term ‘whistle-
blower’ means any individual who provides,
or 2 or more individuals acting jointly who
provide, information relating to a violation
of laws enforced by FinCEN, in a manner es-
tablished, by rule or regulation, by FinCEN.
‘‘(b) AWARDS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In any covered judicial
or administrative action, or related action,
the Secretary, under such rules as the Sec-
retary may issue and subject to subsection
(c), shall pay an award or awards to 1 or
more whistleblowers who voluntarily pro-
vided original information to FinCEN that
led to the successful enforcement of the cov-
ered judicial or administrative action, or re-
lated action, in an aggregate amount equal
to not more than 30 percent, in total, of what
has been collected of the monetary sanctions
imposed in the action.
‘‘(2) SOURCE OF AWARDS.—For the purposes
of paying any award under paragraph (1), the
Secretary may, subject to amounts made
available in advance by appropriation Acts,
use monetary sanction amounts recovered
based on the original information with re-
spect to which the award is being paid.
‘‘(c) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF AWARD;
DENIAL OF AWARD.—
‘‘(1) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF
AWARD.—
‘‘(A) DISCRETION.—The determination of
the amount of an award made under sub-
section (b) shall be in the discretion of the
Secretary.
‘‘(B) CRITERIA.—In responding to a disclo-
sure and determining the amount of an
award made, FinCEN staff shall meet with
the whistleblower to discuss evidence dis-
closed and rebuttals to the disclosure, and
shall take into consideration—
‘‘(i) the significance of the information
provided by the whistleblower to the success
of the covered judicial or administrative ac-
tion;
‘‘(ii) the degree of assistance provided by
the whistleblower and any legal representa-
tive of the whistleblower in a covered judi-
cial or administrative action;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.024 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8499
October 28, 2019
‘‘(iii) the mission of FinCEN in deterring
violations of the law by making awards to
whistleblowers who provide information that
lead to the successful enforcement of such
laws; and
‘‘(iv) such additional relevant factors as
the Secretary may establish by rule.
‘‘(2) DENIAL OF AWARD.—No award under
subsection (b) shall be made—
‘‘(A) to any whistleblower who is, or was at
the time the whistleblower acquired the
original information submitted to FinCEN, a
member, officer, or employee of—
‘‘(i) an appropriate regulatory agency;
‘‘(ii) the Department of Justice;
‘‘(iii) a self-regulatory organization; or
‘‘(iv) a law enforcement organization;
‘‘(B) to any whistleblower who is convicted
of a criminal violation, or who the Secretary
has a reasonable basis to believe committed
a criminal violation, related to the judicial
or administrative action for which the whis-
tleblower otherwise could receive an award
under this section;
‘‘(C) to any whistleblower who gains the
information through the performance of an
audit of financial statements required under
the Bank Secrecy Act and for whom such
submission would be contrary to its require-
ments; or
‘‘(D) to any whistleblower who fails to sub-
mit information to FinCEN in such form as
the Secretary may, by rule, require.
‘‘(3) STATEMENT OF REASONS.—For any deci-
sion granting or denying an award, the Sec-
retary shall provide to the whistleblower a
statement of reasons that includes findings
of fact and conclusions of law for all mate-
rial issues.
‘‘(d) REPRESENTATION.—
‘‘(1) PERMITTED REPRESENTATION.—Any
whistleblower who makes a claim for an
award under subsection (b) may be rep-
resented by counsel.
‘‘(2) REQUIRED REPRESENTATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Any whistleblower who
anonymously makes a claim for an award
under subsection (b) shall be represented by
counsel if the whistleblower anonymously
submits the information upon which the
claim is based.
‘‘(B) DISCLOSURE OF IDENTITY.—Prior to the
payment of an award, a whistleblower shall
disclose their identity and provide such
other information as the Secretary may re-
quire, directly or through counsel for the
whistleblower.
‘‘(e) APPEALS.—Any determination made
under this section, including whether, to
whom, or in what amount to make awards,
shall be in the discretion of the Secretary.
Any such determination, except the deter-
mination of the amount of an award if the
award was made in accordance with sub-
section (b), may be appealed to the appro-
priate court of appeals of the United States
not more than 30 days after the determina-
tion is issued by the Secretary. The court
shall review the determination made by the
Secretary in accordance with section 706 of
title 5.
‘‘(f) EMPLOYEE PROTECTIONS.—The Sec-
retary of the Treasury shall issue regula-
tions protecting a whistleblower from retal-
iation, which shall be as close as practicable
to the employee protections provided for
under section 1057 of the Consumer Financial
Protection Act of 2010.’’; and
(2) in the table of contents for such chap-
ter, by inserting after the item relating to
section 5323 the following new item:
‘‘5323A. Whistleblower incentives.’’.
SEC. 207. CERTAIN VIOLATORS BARRED FROM
SERVING ON BOARDS OF UNITED
STATES FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.
Section 5321 of title 31, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(f) CERTAIN VIOLATORS BARRED FROM
SERVING ON BOARDS OF UNITED STATES FI-
NANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An individual found to
have committed an egregious violation of a
provision of (or rule issued under) the Bank
Secrecy Act shall be barred from serving on
the board of directors of a United States fi-
nancial institution for a 10-year period be-
ginning on the date of such finding.
‘‘(2) EGREGIOUS VIOLATION DEFINED.—With
respect to an individual, the term ‘egregious
violation’ means—
‘‘(A) a felony criminal violation for which
the individual was convicted; and
‘‘(B) a civil violation where the individual
willfully committed such violation and the
violation facilitated money laundering or
the financing of terrorism.’’.
SEC. 208. ADDITIONAL DAMAGES FOR REPEAT
BANK SECRECY ACT VIOLATORS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5321 of title 31,
United States Code, as amended by section
208, is further amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(g) ADDITIONAL DAMAGES FOR REPEAT VIO-
LATORS.—In addition to any other fines per-
mitted by this section and section 5322, with
respect to a person who has previously been
convicted of a criminal provision of (or rule
issued under) the Bank Secrecy Act or who
has admitted, as part of a deferred- or non-
prosecution agreement, to having previously
committed a violation of a criminal provi-
sion of (or rule issued under) the Bank Se-
crecy Act, the Secretary may impose an ad-
ditional civil penalty against such person for
each additional such violation in an amount
equal to up three times the profit gained or
loss avoided by such person as a result of the
violation.’’.
(b) PROSPECTIVE APPLICATION OF AMEND-
MENT.—For purposes of determining whether
a person has committed a previous violation
under section 5321(g) of title 31, United
States Code, such determination shall only
include violations occurring after the date of
enactment of this Act.
SEC. 209. JUSTICE ANNUAL REPORT ON DE-
FERRED AND NON-PROSECUTION
AGREEMENTS.
(a) ANNUAL REPORT.—The Attorney Gen-
eral shall issue an annual report, every year
for the five years beginning on the date of
enactment of this Act, to the Committees on
Financial Services and the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives and the Commit-
tees on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
and the Judiciary of the Senate containing—
(1) a list of deferred prosecution agree-
ments and non-prosecution agreements that
the Attorney General has entered into dur-
ing the previous year with any person with
respect to a violation or suspected violation
of the Bank Secrecy Act;
(2) the justification for entering into each
such agreement;
(3) the list of factors that were taken into
account in determining that the Attorney
General should enter into each such agree-
ment; and
(4) the extent of coordination the Attorney
General conducted with the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network prior to enter-
ing into each such agreement.
(b) CLASSIFIED ANNEX.—Each report under
subsection (a) may include a classified
annex.
(c) BANK SECRECY ACT DEFINED.—For pur-
poses of this section, the term ‘‘Bank Se-
crecy Act’’ has the meaning given that term
under section 5312 of title 31, United States
Code.
SEC. 210. RETURN OF PROFITS AND BONUSES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5322 of title 31,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(e) RETURN OF PROFITS AND BONUSES.—A
person convicted of violating a provision of
(or rule issued under) the Bank Secrecy Act
shall—
‘‘(1) in addition to any other fine under
this section, be fined in an amount equal to
the profit gained by such person by reason of
such violation, as determined by the court;
and
‘‘(2) if such person is an individual who was
a partner, director, officer, or employee of a
financial institution at the time the viola-
tion occurred, repay to such financial insti-
tution any bonus paid to such individual dur-
ing the Federal fiscal year in which the vio-
lation occurred or the Federal fiscal year
after which the violation occurred.’’.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—The amend-
ment made by subsection (a) may not be con-
strued to prohibit a financial institution
from requiring the repayment of a bonus
paid to a partner, director, officer, or em-
ployee if the financial institution determines
that the partner, director, officer, or em-
ployee engaged in unethical, but non-crimi-
nal, activities.
SEC. 211. APPLICATION OF BANK SECRECY ACT
TO DEALERS IN ANTIQUITIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5312(a)(2) of title
31, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (Y), by striking ‘‘or’’ at
the end;
(2) by redesignating subparagraph (Z) as
subparagraph (AA); and
(3) by inserting after subsection (Y) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(Z) a person trading or acting as an inter-
mediary in the trade of antiquities, includ-
ing an advisor, consultant or any other per-
son who engages as a business in the solicita-
tion of the sale of antiquities; or’’.
(b) STUDY ON THE FACILITATION OF MONEY
LAUNDERING AND TERROR FINANCE THROUGH
THE TRADE OF WORKS OF ART OR ANTIQ-
UITIES.—
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary of the Treasury,
in coordination with Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation, the Attorney General, and
Homeland Security Investigations, shall per-
form a study on the facilitation of money
laundering and terror finance through the
trade of works of art or antiquities, includ-
ing an analysis of—
(A) the extent to which the facilitation of
money laundering and terror finance
through the trade of works of art or antiq-
uities may enter or affect the financial sys-
tem of the United States, including any
qualitative data or statistics;
(B) whether thresholds and definitions
should apply in determining which entities
to regulate;
(C) an evaluation of which markets, by
size, entity type, domestic or international
geographical locations, or otherwise, should
be subject to regulations, but only to the ex-
tent such markets are not already required
to report on the trade of works of art or an-
tiquities to the Federal Government;
(D) an evaluation of whether certain ex-
emptions should apply; and
(E) any other points of study or analysis
the Secretary determines necessary or ap-
propriate.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the
180-day period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
Treasury shall issue a report to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the
Senate containing all findings and deter-
minations made in carrying out the study re-
quired under paragraph (1).
(c) RULEMAKING.—Not later than the end of
the 180-day period beginning on the date the
Secretary issues the report required under
subsection (b)(2), the Secretary shall issue
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.024 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8500 October 28, 2019
regulations to carry out the amendments
made by subsection (a).
SEC. 212. GEOGRAPHIC TARGETING ORDER.
The Secretary of the Treasury shall issue a
geographic targeting order, similar to the
order issued by the Financial Crimes En-
forcement Network on November 15, 2018,
that—
(1) applies to commercial real estate to the
same extent, with the exception of having
the same thresholds, as the order issued by
FinCEN on November 15, 2018, applies to resi-
dential real estate; and
(2) establishes a specific threshold for com-
mercial real estate.
SEC. 213. STUDY AND REVISIONS TO CURRENCY
TRANSACTION REPORTS AND SUS-
PICIOUS ACTIVITY REPORTS.
(a) CURRENCY TRANSACTION REPORTS.—
(1) CTR INDEXED FOR INFLATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Every 5 years after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of the Treasury shall revise regulations
issued with respect to section 5313 of title 31,
United States Code, to update each $10,000
threshold amount in such regulation to re-
flect the change in the Consumer Price Index
for All Urban Consumers published by the
Department of Labor, rounded to the nearest
$100. For purposes of calculating the change
described in the previous sentence, the Sec-
retary shall use $10,000 as the base amount
and the date of enactment of this Act as the
base date.
(B) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding subpara-
graph (A), the Secretary may make appro-
priate adjustments to the threshold amounts
described under subparagraph (A) in high-
risk areas (e.g., High Intensity Financial
Crime Areas or HIFCAs), if the Secretary has
demonstrable evidence that shows a thresh-
old raise would increase serious crimes, such
as trafficking, or endanger national security.
(2) GAO CTR STUDY.—
(A) STUDY.—The Comptroller General of
the United States shall carry out a study of
currency transaction reports. Such study
shall include—
(i) a review (carried out in consultation
with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Fi-
nancial Crimes Enforcement Network, the
United States Attorney General, the State
Attorneys General, and State, Tribal, and
local law enforcement) of the effectiveness of
the current currency transaction reporting
regime;
(ii) an analysis of the importance of cur-
rency transaction reports to law enforce-
ment; and
(iii) an analysis of the effects of raising the
currency transaction report threshold.
(B) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the
1-year period beginning on the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Comptroller General
shall issue a report to the Secretary of the
Treasury and the Congress containing—
(i) all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the study required under sub-
paragraph (A); and
(ii) recommendations for improving the
current currency transaction reporting re-
gime.
(b) MODIFIED SARS STUDY AND DESIGN.—
(1) STUDY.—The Director of the Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network shall carry out
a study, in consultation with industry stake-
holders (including money services busi-
nesses, community banks, and credit
unions), the Federal functional regulators,
State bank supervisors, and law enforce-
ment, of the design of a modified suspicious
activity report form for certain customers
and activities. Such study shall include—
(A) an examination of appropriate optimal
SARs thresholds to determine the level at
which a modified SARs form could be em-
ployed;
(B) an evaluation of which customers or
transactions would be appropriate for a
modified SAR, including—
(i) seasoned business customers;
(ii) financial technology (Fintech) firms;
(iii) structuring transactions; and
(iv) any other customer or transaction
that may be appropriate for a modified SAR;
and
(C) an analysis of the most effective meth-
ods to reduce the regulatory burden imposed
on financial institutions in complying with
the Bank Secrecy Act, including an analysis
of the effect of—
(i) modifying thresholds;
(ii) shortening forms;
(iii) combining Bank Secrecy Act forms;
(iv) filing reports in periodic batches; and
(v) any other method that may reduce the
regulatory burden.
(2) STUDY CONSIDERATIONS.—In carrying out
the study required under paragraph (1), the
Director shall seek to balance law enforce-
ment priorities, regulatory burdens experi-
enced by financial institutions, and the re-
quirement for reports to have a ‘‘high degree
of usefulness to law enforcement’’ under the
Bank Secrecy Act.
(3) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the
1-year period beginning on the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Director shall issue a
report to Congress containing—
(A) all findings and determinations made
in carrying out the study required under sub-
section (a); and
(B) sample designs of modified SARs forms
based on the study results.
(4) CONTRACTING AUTHORITY.—The Director
may contract with a private third-party to
carry out the study required under this sub-
section. The authority of the Director to
enter into contracts under this paragraph
shall be in effect for each fiscal year only to
the extent and in the amounts as are pro-
vided in advance in appropriations Acts.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sec-
tion:
(1) BANK SECRECY ACT.—The term ‘‘Bank
Secrecy Act’’ has the meaning given that
term under section 5312 of title 31, United
States Code.
(2) FEDERAL FUNCTIONAL REGULATOR.—The
term ‘‘Federal functional regulator’’ has the
meaning given that term under section 103.
(3) REGULATORY BURDEN.—The term ‘‘regu-
latory burden’’ means the man-hours to com-
plete filings, cost of data collection and
analysis, and other considerations of chapter
35 of title 44, United States Code (commonly
referred to as the Paperwork Reduction Act).
(4) SAR; SUSPICIOUS ACTIVITY REPORT.—The
term ‘‘SAR’’ and ‘‘suspicious activity re-
port’’ mean a report of a suspicious trans-
action under section 5318(g) of title 31,
United States Code.
(5) SEASONED BUSINESS CUSTOMER.—The
term ‘‘seasoned business customer’’, shall
have such meaning as the Secretary of the
Treasury shall prescribe, which shall include
any person that—
(A) is incorporated or organized under the
laws of the United States or any State, or is
registered as, licensed by, or otherwise eligi-
ble to do business within the United States,
a State, or political subdivision of a State;
(B) has maintained an account with a fi-
nancial institution for a length of time as
determined by the Secretary; and
(C) meet such other requirements as the
Secretary may determine necessary or ap-
propriate.
(6) STATE BANK SUPERVISOR.—The term
‘‘State bank supervisor’’ has the meaning
given that term under section 3 of the Fed-
eral Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
SEC. 214. STREAMLINING REQUIREMENTS FOR
CURRENCY TRANSACTION REPORTS
AND SUSPICIOUS ACTIVITY RE-
PORTS.
(a) REVIEW.—The Secretary of the Treas-
ury (in consultation with Federal law en-
forcement agencies, the Director of National
Intelligence, the Federal functional regu-
lators, and State bank supervisors and in
consultation with other relevant stake-
holders) shall undertake a formal review of
the current financial institution reporting
requirements under the Bank Secrecy Act
and its implementing regulations and pro-
pose changes to further reduce regulatory
burdens, and ensure that the information
provided is of a ‘‘high degree of usefulness’’
to law enforcement, as set forth under sec-
tion 5311 of title 31, United States Code.
(b) CONTENTS.—The review required under
subsection (a) shall include a study of—
(1) whether the timeframe for filing a sus-
picious activity report should be increased
from 30 days;
(2) whether or not currency transaction re-
port and suspicious activity report thresh-
olds should be tied to inflation or otherwise
periodically be adjusted;
(3) whether the circumstances under which
a financial institution determines whether
to file a ‘‘continuing suspicious activity re-
port’’, or the processes followed by a finan-
cial institution in determining whether to
file a ‘‘continuing suspicious activity re-
port’’ (or both) can be narrowed;
(4) analyzing the fields designated as ‘‘crit-
ical’’ on the suspicious activity report form
and whether the number of fields should be
reduced;
(5) the increased use of exemption provi-
sions to reduce currency transaction reports
that are of little or no value to law enforce-
ment efforts;
(6) the current financial institution report-
ing requirements under the Bank Secrecy
Act and its implementing regulations and
guidance; and
(7) such other items as the Secretary deter-
mines appropriate.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the
one year period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with law enforce-
ment and persons subject to Bank Secrecy
Act requirements, shall issue a report to the
Congress containing all findings and deter-
minations made in carrying out the review
required under subsection (a).
(d) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sec-
tion:
(1) FEDERAL FUNCTIONAL REGULATOR.—The
term ‘‘Federal functional regulator’’ has the
meaning given that term under section 103.
(2) STATE BANK SUPERVISOR.—The term
‘‘State bank supervisor’’ has the meaning
given that term under section 3 of the Fed-
eral Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
(3) OTHER TERMS.—The terms ‘‘Bank Se-
crecy Act’’ and ‘‘financial institution’’ have
the meaning given those terms, respectively,
under section 5312 of title 31, United States
Code.
TITLE III—MODERNIZING THE AML
SYSTEM
SEC. 301. ENCOURAGING INNOVATION IN BSA
COMPLIANCE.
Section 5318 of title 31, United States Code,
as amended by section 202, is further amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(p) ENCOURAGING INNOVATION IN COMPLI-
ANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Federal functional
regulators shall encourage financial institu-
tions to consider, evaluate, and, where ap-
propriate, responsibly implement innovative
approaches to meet the requirements of this
subchapter, including through the use of in-
novation pilot programs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.024 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8501
October 28, 2019
‘‘(2) EXEMPTIVE RELIEF.—The Secretary,
pursuant to subsection (a), may provide ex-
emptions from the requirements of this sub-
chapter if the Secretary determines such ex-
emptions are necessary to facilitate the test-
ing and potential use of new technologies
and other innovations.
‘‘(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—This sub-
section may not be construed to require fi-
nancial institutions to consider, evaluate, or
implement innovative approaches to meet
the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act.
‘‘(4) FEDERAL FUNCTIONAL REGULATOR DE-
FINED.—In this subsection, the term ‘Federal
functional regulator’ means the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National
Credit Union Administration, the Securities
and Exchange Commission, and the Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission.’’.
SEC. 302. INNOVATION LABS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter II of chapter
53 of title 31, United States Code, is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘§ 5333. Innovation Labs
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
within the Department of the Treasury and
each Federal functional regulator an Innova-
tion Lab.
‘‘(b) DIRECTOR.—The head of each Innova-
tion Lab shall be a Director, to be appointed
by the Secretary of the Treasury or the head
of the Federal functional regulator, as appli-
cable.
‘‘(c) DUTIES.—The duties of the Innovation
Lab shall be—
‘‘(1) to provide outreach to law enforce-
ment agencies, State bank supervisors, fi-
nancial institutions, and other persons (in-
cluding vendors and technology companies)
with respect to innovation and new tech-
nologies that may be used to comply with
the requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act;
‘‘(2) to support the implementation of re-
sponsible innovation and new technology, in
a manner that complies with the require-
ments of the Bank Secrecy Act;
‘‘(3) to explore opportunities for public-pri-
vate partnerships; and
‘‘(4) to develop metrics of success.
‘‘(d) FINCEN LAB.—The Innovation Lab es-
tablished under subsection (a) within the De-
partment of the Treasury shall be a lab with-
in the Financial Crimes Enforcement Net-
work.
‘‘(e) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
‘‘(1) FEDERAL FUNCTIONAL REGULATOR.—The
term ‘Federal functional regulator’ means
the Board of Governors of the Federal Re-
serve System, the Comptroller of the Cur-
rency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration, the National Credit Union Admin-
istration, the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission, and the Commodity Futures Trad-
ing Commission.
‘‘(2) STATE BANK SUPERVISOR.—The term
‘State bank supervisor’ has the meaning
given that term under section 3 of the Fed-
eral Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents for subchapter II of chapter 53 of
title 31, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘5333. Innovation Labs.’’.
SEC. 303. INNOVATION COUNCIL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter II of chapter
53 of Title 31, United States Code, as amend-
ed by section 302, is further amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘§ 5334. Innovation Council
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
the Innovation Council (hereinafter in this
section referred to as the ‘Council’), which
shall consist of each Director of an Innova-
tion Lab established under section 5334, a
representative of State bank supervisors (as
defined under section 3 of the Federal De-
posit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813)), and the
Director of the Financial Crimes Enforce-
ment Network.
‘‘(b) CHAIR.—The Director of the Innova-
tion Lab of the Department of the Treasury
shall serve as the Chair of the Council.
‘‘(c) DUTY.—The members of the Council
shall coordinate on activities related to in-
novation under the Bank Secrecy Act, but
may not supplant individual agency deter-
minations on innovation.
‘‘(d) MEETINGS.—The meetings of the Coun-
cil—
‘‘(1) shall be at the call of the Chair, but in
no case may the Council meet less than
semi-annually;
‘‘(2) may include open and closed sessions,
as determined necessary by the Council; and
‘‘(3) shall include participation by public
and private entities and law enforcement
agencies.
‘‘(e) REPORT.—The Council shall issue an
annual report, for each of the 7 years begin-
ning on the date of enactment of this sec-
tion, to the Secretary of the Treasury on the
activities of the Council during the previous
year, including the success of programs as
measured by metrics of success developed
pursuant to section 5334(c)(4), and any regu-
latory or legislative recommendations that
the Council may have.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents for subchapter II of chapter 53 of
title 31, United States Code, is amended by
adding the end the following:
‘‘5334. Innovation Council.’’.
SEC. 304. TESTING METHODS RULEMAKING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 5318 of title 31,
United States Code, as amended by section
301, is further amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(q) TESTING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the head of
each agency to which the Secretary has dele-
gated duties or powers under subsection (a),
shall issue a rule to specify—
‘‘(A) with respect to technology and re-
lated technology-internal processes (‘new
technology’) designed to facilitate compli-
ance with the Bank Secrecy Act require-
ments, the standards by which financial in-
stitutions are to test new technology; and
‘‘(B) in what instances or under what cir-
cumstance and criteria a financial institu-
tion may replace or terminate legacy tech-
nology and processes for any examinable
technology or process without the replace-
ment or termination being determined an ex-
amination deficiency.
‘‘(2) STANDARDS.—The standards described
under paragraph (1) may include—
‘‘(A) an emphasis on using innovative ap-
proaches, such as machine learning, rather
than rules-based systems;
‘‘(B) risk-based back-testing of the regime
to facilitate calibration of relevant systems;
‘‘(C) requirements for appropriate data pri-
vacy and security; and
‘‘(D) a requirement that the algorithms
used by the regime be disclosed to the Finan-
cial Crimes Enforcement Network, upon re-
quest.
‘‘(3) CONFIDENTIALITY OF ALGORITHMS.—If a
financial institution or any director, officer,
employee, or agent of any financial institu-
tion, voluntarily or pursuant to this sub-
section or any other authority, discloses the
institution’s algorithms to a Government
agency, such algorithms and any materials
associated with the creation of such algo-
rithms shall be considered confidential and
not subject to public disclosure.’’.
(b) UPDATE OF MANUAL.—The Financial In-
stitutions Examination Council shall en-
sure—
(1) that any manual prepared by the Coun-
cil is updated to reflect the rulemaking re-
quired by the amendment made by sub-
section (a); and
(2) that financial institutions are not pe-
nalized for the decisions based on such rule-
making to replace or terminate technology
used for compliance with the Bank Secrecy
Act (as defined under section 5312 of title 31,
United States Code) or other anti-money
laundering laws.
SEC. 305. FINCEN STUDY ON USE OF EMERGING
TECHNOLOGIES.
(a) STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Finan-
cial Crimes Enforcement Network
(‘‘FinCEN’’) shall carry out a study on—
(A) the status of implementation and in-
ternal use of emerging technologies, includ-
ing artificial intelligence (‘‘AI’’), digital
identity technologies, blockchain tech-
nologies, and other innovative technologies
within FinCEN;
(B) whether AI, digital identity tech-
nologies, blockchain technologies, and other
innovative technologies can be further lever-
aged to make FinCEN’s data analysis more
efficient and effective; and
(C) how FinCEN could better utilize AI,
digital identity technologies, blockchain
technologies, and other innovative tech-
nologies to more actively analyze and dis-
seminate the information it collects and
stores to provide investigative leads to Fed-
eral, State, Tribal, and local law enforce-
ment, and other Federal agencies (collective,
‘‘Agencies’’), and better support its ongoing
investigations when referring a case to the
Agencies.
(2) INCLUSION OF GTO DATA.—The study re-
quired under this subsection shall include
data collected through the Geographic Tar-
geting Orders (‘‘GTO’’) program.
(3) CONSULTATION.—In conducting the
study required under this subsection,
FinCEN shall consult with the Directors of
the Innovations Labs established in section
302.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the
6-month period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director shall
issue a report to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and
the Committee on Financial Services of the
House of Representatives containing—
(1) all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the study required under sub-
section (a);
(2) with respect to each of subparagraphs
(A), (B) and (C) of subsection (a)(1), any best
practices or significant concerns identified
by the Director, and their applicability to
AI, digital identity technologies, blockchain
technologies, and other innovative tech-
nologies with respect to U.S. efforts to com-
bat money laundering and other forms of il-
licit finance; and
(3) any policy recommendations that could
facilitate and improve communication and
coordination between the private sector,
FinCEN, and Agencies through the imple-
mentation of innovative approaches, in order
to meet their Bank Secrecy Act (as defined
under section 5312 of title 31, United States
Code) and anti-money laundering compliance
obligations.
SEC. 306. DISCRETIONARY SURPLUS FUNDS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The dollar amount speci-
fied under section 7(a)(3)(A) of the Federal
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 289(a)(3)(A)) is reduced
by $27,000,000.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
September 30, 2029.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.024 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8502 October 28, 2019
Georgia (Mr. DAVID SCOTT) and the gen-
tlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. WAG-
NER) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Georgia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members may have 5 legislative
days within which to revise and extend
their remarks on this legislation, and
to insert extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
In recent weeks, we have had the op-
portunity to discuss the valuable anti-
money laundering aspects of the
COUNTER Act of 2019, H.R. 2514, intro-
duced by the gentleman from Missouri
(Mr. CLEAVER).
This important piece of legislation is
the first major reform in the United
States anti-money laundering regime
since 2001 and makes critical changes
to close loopholes and ensure better en-
forcement of this country’s AML and
Bank Secrecy Act laws.
Today, I would like to highlight how
this bill also addresses the costs and
burdens of the Bank Secrecy Act and
anti-money laundering compliance for
smaller financial institutions, includ-
ing credit unions and community
banks.
This bill includes multiple avenues
to improve information-sharing and
feedback loops, including new pro-
grams of domestic liaisons for the Fi-
nancial Crime Enforcement Network of
FinCEN, sending FinCEN officials to
the field to connect directly with fi-
nancial institutions.
It also makes permanent the FinCEN
Exchange program, allowing for more
robust exchange of threat information
and analysis among participants. It re-
vives the popular ‘‘SAR Activity Re-
view,’’ which was a FinCEN publication
that provided timely threat detection
information, which will help banks to
better direct their resources, and result
in more efficient and effective collec-
tion of information from both banks
and law enforcement.
The COUNTER Act also codifies the
Federal financial regulators’ guidance
to encourage resource-sharing among
similar institutions.
Mr. Speaker, we heard from many
smaller institutions that they were
more apt to invest in resource-sharing
if they knew that the permission to do
so wouldn’t change with new directors
or administrations.
The bill also raises the Currency
Transaction Reports threshold, in-
creasing it every 5 years, pegged to in-
flation. This is a key issue for smaller
institutions and addresses their con-
cerns, while balancing the investiga-
tive needs of law enforcement.
Further focused on the compliance
burden, this bill requires FinCEN,
working with industry and law enforce-
ment, to consider the design of a short-
ened, modified Suspicious Activity Re-
port, or SAR, form for certain cus-
tomers and activities.
These reforms are among the reasons
that the National Association of Feder-
ally Insured Credit Unions, the Inde-
pendent Community Bankers of Amer-
ica, the Credit Union National Associa-
tion, all of the State banking associa-
tions, and many, many others have ex-
pressed support for this important bill.
Overall, I believe that the COUNTER
Act of 2019 is a significant step forward
for small businesses, law enforcement,
and other stakeholders.
I want to thank Mr. CLEAVER for in-
troducing this bill, and I want to thank
our Republican colleagues for working
collaboratively with a team effort to
refine this legislation, for this is truly
a bipartisan bill, ensuring that this bill
passed out of the Financial Services
Committee with a unanimous 55–0 vote.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I appreciate the majority moving
H.R. 2514, the COUNTER Act of 2019,
again, this week, as a standalone piece
of legislation.
Both Republicans and Democrats
agree, protecting the financial system
from bad actors is a priority. We must
give financial institutions the tools
and resources they need to fight these
bad actors.
According to a 2016 report by the U.S.
Government Accountability Office,
from January 2009 to December 2015,
Federal agencies assessed roughly $5.1
billion in fines, forfeitures, and pen-
alties for violations of the Bank Se-
crecy Act and anti-money laundering
regulations, often referred to as BSA/
AML.
A separate 2016 analysis of anti-
money laundering enforcement found
that penalties and fines for BSA viola-
tions significantly increased since the
2008 financial crisis. This report con-
cluded that regulators had become
more aggressive in pursuing BSA viola-
tions in the wake of the crisis.
However, this data is from 2016. We
know that the current enforcement re-
gime is outdated. Technology has out-
paced the tools and resources available
to Federal agencies to pursue these bad
actors.
H.R. 2514 makes important changes
to strengthen BSA and AML enforce-
ment. The bill includes key aspects of
the BSA/AML reform package from
last Congress, including a provision
that allows for tailored information-
sharing by financial institutions with
their foreign branches to better iden-
tify suspicious activity.
The bill also includes important up-
dates to the reporting thresholds for
Suspicious Activities Reports, or
SARs.
H.R. 2514 reforms the SAR framework
by requiring the Financial Crimes En-
forcement Network to carry out a
study examining whether the current
SAR thresholds are adequate.
This study will provide the necessary
data to alter the current SAR filing re-
gime in the future. There is clearly a
recognition on both sides of the aisle
that the status quo is unacceptable.
The bill also encourages greater in-
novation, ensures efficiency, and re-
quires treasury to play a prominent
role in coordinating AML policy. These
measures will help ensure that the
most effective AML policies are being
used to stop terrorists and bad actors.
I want to thank the gentleman from
Missouri (Mr. CLEAVER) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. STIVERS) for all
their hard work and effort on this bill.
Additionally, I want to thank the
gentleman from Missouri (Mr. LUETKE-
MEYER), the gentleman from Virginia
(Mr. RIGGLEMAN), and the gentleman
from Ohio (Mr. GONZALEZ).
Mr. Speaker, their priorities have
made the bill stronger, and more fo-
cused, which will enable the Treasury
Department and other Federal agencies
to carry out critical anti-money laun-
dering processes.
I encourage my colleagues to support
H.R. 2514, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
This is a very critical piece of legis-
lation for our financial services indus-
try that will help close loopholes in ex-
isting law, and prevent criminals, pre-
vent terrorists, and other bad state ac-
tors from escaping the United States
Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-
Threat Finance laws; it is badly need-
ed, and that is why this is so impor-
tant.
I am proud to stand up to support
small businesses here today, while we
are making important and necessary
updates to these regimes.
I would especially like to congratu-
late my colleague from Missouri, Mr.
CLEAVER, the chairman of the House
Committee on Financial Services, Na-
tional Security, International Develop-
ment, and Monetary Policy Sub-
committee for introducing this bill.
A champion of small business him-
self, Mr. CLEAVER has diligently en-
gaged stakeholders, including govern-
ment, industry, nongovernmental orga-
nizations, and Members from across
the political spectrum on the text that
we vote on here today. The result is
this comprehensive bill with broad bi-
partisan support.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
supporting this important piece of leg-
islation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
b 1700
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr.
DAVID SCOTT) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2514, as
amended.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.050 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8503
October 28, 2019
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
FINANCIAL INCLUSION IN
BANKING ACT OF 2019
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the
rules and pass the bill (H.R. 4067) to
amend the Consumer Financial Protec-
tion Act of 2010 to direct the Office of
Community Affairs to identify causes
leading to, and solutions for, under-
banked, un-banked, and underserved
consumers, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4067
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Financial
Inclusion in Banking Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. OFFICE OF COMMUNITY AFFAIRS DUTIES
WITH RESPECT TO UNDER-BANKED,
UN-BANKED, AND UNDERSERVED
CONSUMERS.
Section 1013(b)(2) of the Consumer Finan-
cial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C.
5493(b)(2)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘The Director shall estab-
lish a unit’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall es-
tablish a unit to be known as the ‘Office of
Community Affairs’ ’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) DUTIES RELATED TO UNDER-BANKED, UN-
BANKED, AND UNDERSERVED CONSUMERS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Office of Community
Affairs shall—
‘‘(I) lead coordination of research to iden-
tify any causes and challenges contributing
to the decision of individuals who, and
households that, do not initiate or maintain
on-going and sustainable relationships with
depository institutions, including consulting
with trade associations representing deposi-
tory institutions, trade associations rep-
resenting minority depository institutions,
organizations representing the interests of
traditionally underserved consumers and
communities, organizations representing the
interests of consumers (particularly low- and
moderate-income individuals), civil rights
groups, community groups, consumer advo-
cates, and the Consumer Advisory Board
about this matter;
‘‘(II) identify subject matter experts within
the Bureau to work on the issues identified
under subclause (I);
‘‘(III) lead coordination efforts between
other Federal departments and agencies to
better assess the reasons for the lack of, and
help increase the participation of, under-
banked, un-banked, and underserved con-
sumers in the banking system; and
‘‘(IV) identify and develop strategies to in-
crease financial education to under-banked,
un-banked, and underserved consumers.
‘‘(ii) COORDINATION WITH OTHER BUREAU OF-
FICES.—In carrying out this paragraph, the
Office of Community Affairs shall consult
with and coordinate with the research unit
established under subsection (b)(1) and such
other offices of the Bureau as the Director
may determine appropriate.
‘‘(iii) REPORTING.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—The Office of Community
Affairs shall submit a report to Congress,
within two years of the date of enactment of
this subparagraph and every 2 years there-
after, that identifies any factors impeding
the ability of, or limiting the option for, in-
dividuals or households to have access to
fair, on-going, and sustainable relationships
with depository institutions to meet their fi-
nancial needs, discusses any regulatory,
legal, or structural barriers to enhancing
participation of under-banked, un-banked,
and underserved consumers with depository
institutions, and contains recommendations
to promote better participation for all con-
sumers with the banking system.
‘‘(II) TIMING OF REPORT.—To the extent
possible, the Office shall submit each report
required under subclause (I) during a year in
which the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration does not issue the report on encour-
aging use of depository institutions by the
unbanked required under section 49 of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act.’’.
SEC. 3. DISCRETIONARY SURPLUS FUNDS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The dollar amount speci-
fied under section 7(a)(3)(A) of the Federal
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 289(a)(3)(A)) is reduced
by $10,000,000.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
September 30, 2029.
SEC. 4. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs.
LAWRENCE). Pursuant to the rule, the
gentleman from Georgia (Mr. DAVID
SCOTT) and the gentlewoman from Mis-
souri (Mrs. WAGNER) each will control
20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Georgia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent that all Members may have 5 leg-
islative days within which to revise
and extend their remarks on this legis-
lation and to insert extraneous mate-
rial thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I yield myself such
time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, my bill, H.R. 4067, is
a response to a national crisis that we
have in terms of taking better finan-
cial care of the American people.
This bill is called the Financial In-
clusion in Banking Act, and almost the
entirety of what we are doing is in-
cluded in those two words, ‘‘financial
inclusion.’’ It truly reflects the key
focus of this legislation, which is en-
suring that, in this Nation, consumers
of all backgrounds, of all races, of all
income levels have access to our great
financial system and our financial
products that are affordable, that are
safe, and that meet their needs.
The benefits of traditional banking
and financial inclusion may not be im-
mediately apparent, Madam Speaker,
until one considers the cost and the
long-term struggles of financial exclu-
sion. Imagine, we have people, millions
of households, without even a checking
account. Simple tasks suddenly be-
come more challenging without a
checking account, more time-con-
suming, more expensive. Without a
bank account, the simple act of access-
ing their own paychecks causes mil-
lions of consumers in this country to
rely on costly check-cashing services
or high-fee money orders.
Take paying a utility bill, just pay-
ing your light bill or your gas bill
means a trip across town and a lengthy
wait in line to pay your bill in cash if
you find a place where you can even
cash your paycheck without a bank ac-
count.
When the 31st or the 30th of each
month arrives, and the financial ends
don’t meet, families are out there, mil-
lions of our families in America who
are forced to payday lenders, to pawn
shops for loans, to predatory bad ac-
tors, to loan sharks, just to make do.
In the event of a tragedy, a hospital
trip, a family emergency, these chal-
lenges are multiplied many times over.
The reality is that, in our increas-
ingly highly technical electronic on-
line banking system and broadband,
and in an increasingly credit-based
economy, unbanked and underbanked
consumers are being left behind. They
are being abandoned to the predators
that are out there.
The FDIC gave some very valuable
statistics from a report just a few
months ago. It reported that 8.4 mil-
lion American households—that is not
the individuals; it is just the house-
holds. Nobody in these households is
considered in a way that they have a
checking or a savings account. 8.4 mil-
lion American households, nobody in
the house, not mama, not daddy, not
grandmama, not uncle, not cousin, no-
body in that household has even a bank
account.
Then, according to the FDIC, an ad-
ditional 24.2 million American house-
holds are underbanked, which means
that that household has limited access
to traditional banking but has to rely
on the use of risky alternative finan-
cial services to manage just basic ma-
neuvers in their financial lives.
I want to take a moment, Madam
Speaker, to fully explain and describe
the nature of this problem. I hope the
American people who are listening will
understand now why I say we have a
national crisis and this is why we need
my bill. The Financial Inclusion in
Banking Act, a bill I was proud to in-
troduce earlier this year, gets to the
heart of this issue. This is what it does.
It directs the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau to: one, research
factors standing in the way of financial
inclusion of the American people so we
can understand the hurdles that these
individuals and our consumers face;
two, the bill will also direct the CFPB
to recommend best practices to in-
crease participation in the formal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.052 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8504 October 28, 2019
banking sectors to bring our consumers
out of the shadows of risky, predatory,
alternative financial services; and,
three, my bill will direct the CFPB to
work with minority depository banks,
African American-owned banks and in-
stitutions, consumer advocates, and
civil rights groups to make sure that
their recommendations—they are out
there grappling day to day with the
unbanked and underbanked.
They need to be brought to the table
so we can learn from these groups what
we must do in order to reflect the
needs of the most marginalized and
unbanked consumers among us and the
most underserved communities across
our Nation while also simultaneously
strengthening and growing many of the
minority-owned banking institutions,
African American institutions particu-
larly.
Madam Speaker, do you know that
there has not been a new African
American-owned bank in the last 25
years and that we are losing minority
banking ownership? What better oppor-
tunity? Who knows best this group
that is marginalized?
We will be able to solve two prob-
lems, enrich and grow our minority de-
pository institutions while at the same
time providing a way to get nearly 58
million Americans out of the grasp of
these predators and into our great
banking system.
Finally, H.R. 4067 will direct the
CFPB to promote strategies to improve
financial education. You cannot have
consumer financial protection for the
American people if you don’t have con-
sumer financial education for the
American people. That is an integral
part that will empower them with the
tools necessary to manage their finan-
cial lives.
Personal financial education is the
key, especially for our young people.
But you know how terribly critical this
issue is? Only 17 of 50 States in our Na-
tion’s public school systems even re-
quire a course in financial education,
only 17.
We can do much better. This bill will
start the wheel moving. And we are
going to be bringing another bill so
that we can be able to give the Con-
sumer Financial Protection Bureau
grant-making authority.
Madam Speaker, we are the richest
Nation in the world. We need to apply
our resources, and we need to pass leg-
islation that will mandate the teaching
of financial education in all 50 States,
not just 17.
I have to thank a lot of people who
have been working with me for my bill.
First, I thank our chairwoman, Ms.
MAXINE WATERS, who has been working
with us and her staff and my staff as
we tackle this issue. I also thank my
friends from the other side, the Repub-
licans who are working with us, as
well, for this is not a Democratic issue
or a Republican issue. This is an Amer-
ican issue. And we will bring the en-
ergy to make sure that we are able to
pass this bill.
I am proud to put the bill forth, and
I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of
it.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I thank and congratulate the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. DAVID
SCOTT), my good friend, on so much
heavy lifting and the work that he has
done to bring this bipartisan piece of
legislation to the floor, along with our
former colleague from Wisconsin (Mr.
Duffy) who was also very involved with
you, Madam Speaker, on this bipar-
tisan piece of legislation, H.R. 4067.
According to the most recent FDIC
survey of unbanked and underbanked
households, 6.5 percent of U.S. house-
holds were unbanked in 2017, meaning
no one in the household had a checking
or savings account. That equates to ap-
proximately 8.4 million American
households.
b 1715
The same survey showed that an ad-
ditional 18.7 percent of households were
underbanked, meaning that the house-
hold had a bank account but also ob-
tained financial services outside the
mainstream banking system. That is
more than 24 million U.S. households
composed of nearly 50 million adults
and 15 million children, Madam Speak-
er.
These statistics point to the stag-
gering number of Americans who have
limited access to traditional banking
services.
While these numbers have, thank-
fully, declined since the financial cri-
sis, the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau’s Office of Community Affairs
has and continues to engage in efforts
to examine the unbanked and under-
banked, as well as allocate resources to
Americans who remain credit invisible.
The Office of Community Affairs
works with the CFPB’s Office of Re-
search and the Office of Fair Lending
to examine credit deserts and equip
communities with tools for financial
education.
The Bureau’s Your Money, Your
Goals program offers a variety of mate-
rials to help consumers pursue finan-
cial empowerment and resources for or-
ganizations aimed at helping finan-
cially vulnerable individuals.
Despite the progress that has been
made, this remains an important issue
that merits our attention. By further
directing the CFPB’s Office of Commu-
nity Affairs to focus its work toward
the underserved, we are working to as-
sure these consumers are not over-
looked.
This bill reaffirms our intent to en-
gage in efforts to examine the
unbanked and underbanked and iden-
tify solutions to deliver resources to
Americans who remain credit invisible.
All Americans deserve access to the
basic financial tools that will help
them achieve financial independence,
and this bill takes an important step in
promoting financial inclusion and pro-
viding access to all Americans.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. DAVID
SCOTT) for all of his tireless efforts on
this bill, and I urge my colleagues to
support the Financial Inclusion in
Banking Act.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, first, I would like to
inquire if the gentlewoman has any
more speakers.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Speaker, I
am ready to yield back if the gen-
tleman is ready to close.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I am so glad that the
gentlewoman mentioned Sean Duffy. I
thank Mrs. WAGNER for doing that.
Madam Speaker, Sean Duffy lit-
erally—to tell you the truth, I told him
in committee, when he didn’t show up,
when we found out so we couldn’t give
our great speeches for him, I told him
he broke my heart when I heard he
wasn’t coming back. I said here we are
working on this monumental bill, he
was the lead Republican sponsor on it
and has brought it a mighty long way.
But a great American has decided to
retire from the Congress, Madam
Speaker, and that is Sean Duffy of Wis-
consin.
He and I served on that committee
for years, and he has played a monu-
mental role with us in this bill. We
wouldn’t be here with it on the floor
with the strong bipartisan support we
have if it weren’t for the leadership of
Sean Duffy.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Speaker, will
the gentleman yield?
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Missouri (Mrs. WAGNER).
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Speaker, I
share the gentleman from Georgia’s
sentiment completely, and we are
grateful to Sean Duffy. We wish him
and his family the very, very best in
making the choice to choose to put his
family first and retire from this won-
derful institution.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. DAVID
SCOTT) for yielding to me to say a word
or two about my friend, Mr. Duffy.
Madam Speaker, I urge passage of
this wonderful, bipartisan piece of leg-
islation, H.R. 4067.
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I am urging that we
get a unanimous vote on this, that
every single Member of Congress will
send a powerful message that we are no
longer going to stand by and have 58
million Americans out there waiting
for the pawns of these predatory lend-
ers, these loan sharks, and others. No.
We want to bring them out of the shad-
ows and bring them into our great
American financial system.
Madam Speaker, I urge everyone to
vote for the bill, and I hope we have a
unanimous vote.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.053 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8505
October 28, 2019
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr.
DAVID SCOTT) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4067, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
NATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
MUSEUM COMMEMORATIVE COIN
ACT
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I move to suspend the
rules and pass the bill (H.R. 1865) to re-
quire the Secretary of the Treasury to
mint a coin in commemoration of the
opening of the National Law Enforce-
ment Museum in the District of Colum-
bia, and for other purposes, as amend-
ed.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1865
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘National
Law Enforcement Museum Commemorative
Coin Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
The Congress finds the following:
(1) In 2000, Congress passed and President
William J. Clinton signed into law the Na-
tional Law Enforcement Museum Act (Pub-
lic Law 106–492), which authorized the Na-
tional Law Enforcement Officers Memorial
Fund, Inc., to build the National Law En-
forcement Museum on Federal land in the
District of Columbia to honor and com-
memorate the service and sacrifice of law en-
forcement officers in the United States.
(2) In April 2016, construction began on the
National Law Enforcement Museum in the
District of Columbia across the street from
the National Law Enforcement Officers Me-
morial in Judiciary Square.
(3) The National Law Enforcement Mu-
seum formally opened in October of 2018.
(4) The National Law Enforcement Muse-
um’s mission is—
(A) to honor and commemorate the ex-
traordinary service and sacrifice of Amer-
ica’s law enforcement officers;
(B) to serve as an important bridge be-
tween law enforcement’s past and present,
between the heroes of yesteryear and those
who have followed in their footsteps, and be-
tween America’s peace officers and the pub-
lic they serve;
(C) increase public understanding and sup-
port for law enforcement and to promote law
enforcement safety; and
(D) strengthen the relationship between
law enforcement and the communities they
serve with thought-provoking programs at
the Museum and around the country that
promote dialogue on topics of current inter-
est.
SEC. 3. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.
(a) DENOMINATIONS.—The Secretary of the
Treasury (hereafter in this Act referred to as
the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall mint and issue the
following coin:
(1) $5 GOLD COINS.—Not more than 50,000 $5
coins, which shall—
(A) weigh 8.359 grams;
(B) have a diameter of 0.850 inches; and
(C) contain not less than 90 percent gold.
(2) $1 SILVER COINS.—Not more than 400,000
$1 coins, which shall—
(A) weigh 26.73 grams;
(B) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
(C) contain not less than 90 percent silver.
(3) HALF-DOLLAR CLAD COINS.—Not more
than 750,000 half-dollar coins which shall—
(A) weigh 11.34 grams;
(B) have a diameter of 1.205 inches; and
(C) be minted to the specifications for half-
dollar coins contained in section 5112(b) of
title 31, United States Code.
(b) LEGAL TENDER.—The coins minted
under this Act shall be legal tender, as pro-
vided in section 5103 of title 31, United States
Code.
(c) NUMISMATIC ITEMS.—For purposes of
section 5134 of title 31, United States Code,
all coins minted under this Act shall be con-
sidered to be numismatic items.
SEC. 4. DESIGN OF COINS.
(a) DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The design of the coins
minted under this Act shall be emblematic
of the National Law Enforcement Museum
and the service and sacrifice of law enforce-
ment officers throughout the history of the
United States.
(2) DESIGNATION AND INSCRIPTIONS.—On
each coin minted under this Act there shall
be—
(A) a designation of the value of the coin;
(B) an inscription of the year ‘‘2021’’; and
(C) inscriptions of the words ‘‘Liberty’’,
‘‘In God We Trust’’, ‘‘United States of Amer-
ica’’, and ‘‘E Pluribus Unum’’.
(b) SELECTION.—The design for the coins
minted under this Act shall be—
(1) selected by the Secretary after con-
sultation with the Commission of Fine Arts
and the National Law Enforcement Officers
Memorial Fund, Inc.; and
(2) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advi-
sory Committee.
SEC. 5. ISSUANCE OF COINS.
(a) QUALITY OF COINS.—Coins minted under
this Act shall be issued in uncirculated and
proof qualities.
(b) MINT FACILITIES.—Only 1 facility of the
United States Mint may be used to strike
any particular quality of the coins minted
under this Act.
(c) PERIOD FOR ISSUANCE.—The Secretary
may issue coins minted under this Act only
during the 1-year period beginning on Janu-
ary 1, 2021.
SEC. 6. SALE OF COINS.
(a) SALE PRICE.—The coins issued under
this Act shall be sold by the Secretary at a
price equal to the sum of—
(1) the face value of the coins;
(2) the surcharge provided in section 7(a)
with respect to such coins; and
(3) the cost of designing and issuing the
coins (including labor, materials, dies, use of
machinery, overhead expenses, marketing,
and shipping).
(b) BULK SALES.—The Secretary shall
make bulk sales of the coins issued under
this Act at a reasonable discount.
(c) PREPAID ORDERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ac-
cept prepaid orders for the coins minted
under this Act before the issuance of such
coins.
(2) DISCOUNT.—Sale prices with respect to
prepaid orders under paragraph (1) shall be
at a reasonable discount.
SEC. 7. SURCHARGES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—All sales of coins issued
under this Act shall include a surcharge of—
(1) $35 per coin for the $5 coin;
(2) $10 per coin for the $1 coin; and
(3) $5 per coin for the half-dollar coin.
(b) DISTRIBUTION.—Subject to section
5134(f)(1) of title 31, United States Code, all
surcharges received by the Secretary from
the sale of coins issued under this Act shall
be promptly paid by the Secretary to the Na-
tional Law Enforcement Officers Memorial
Fund, Inc., for educational and outreach pro-
grams and exhibits.
(c) AUDITS.—The National Law Enforce-
ment Officers Memorial Fund, Inc., shall be
subject to the audit requirements of section
5134(f)(2) of title 31, United States Code, with
regard to the amounts received under sub-
section (b).
(d) LIMITATION.—Notwithstanding sub-
section (a), no surcharge may be included
with respect to the issuance under this Act
of any coin during a calendar year if, as of
the time of such issuance, the issuance of
such coin would result in the number of com-
memorative coin programs issued during
such year to exceed the annual 2 commemo-
rative coin program issuance limitation
under section 5112(m)(1) of title 31, United
States Code (as in effect on the date of the
enactment of this Act). The Secretary of the
Treasury may issue guidance to carry out
this subsection.
SEC. 8. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. DAVID SCOTT) and the gen-
tlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. WAG-
NER) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Georgia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent that all Members may have 5 leg-
islative days within which to revise
and extend their remarks on this legis-
lation and to insert extraneous mate-
rial thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I yield myself such
time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, in 2000, Congress
passed and President Clinton signed
into law the National Law Enforce-
ment Museum Act. That bill author-
ized the construction of the National
Law Enforcement Museum to com-
memorate the service and sacrifices of
our U.S. law enforcement officers, a
very, very important piece of legisla-
tion.
The National Law Enforcement Mu-
seum opened its doors in October of
2018 with a mission to honor the lives
of service and sacrifice of America’s
law enforcement officers, serve as an
important bridge between law enforce-
ment’s past and present, and strength-
en the relationship between law en-
forcement and the communities that
they serve.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.055 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8506 October 28, 2019
This bipartisan legislation authorizes
the Department of the Treasury to
mint $5 gold coins, $1 silver coins, and
half-dollar coins in 2021 to commemo-
rate the National Law Enforcement
Museum and the service and sacrifice
of law enforcement officers throughout
history. Proceeds from the sales of
these coins will go toward funding the
museum’s educational and outreach
programs and exhibits.
Madam Speaker, I thank Mr. PAS-
CRELL of New Jersey—as I affection-
ately refer to him, the mayor of
Paterson, New Jersey, a great town—
for introducing this bill this Congress,
and I urge Members to vote ‘‘yes.’’
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
H.R. 1865, the National Law Enforce-
ment Museum Commemorative Coin
Act.
I would like to also thank the gen-
tleman from New Jersey, Representa-
tive PASCRELL, and my colleague, Sen-
ator BLUNT from Missouri, for all of
their hard work on this important, bi-
partisan piece of legislation.
Madam Speaker, in 2000, Congress au-
thorized the creation of the National
Law Enforcement Museum, and just 18
years later, the museum was formally
opened on October 13, 2018, in Wash-
ington, D.C., across the street from the
National Law Enforcement Memorial.
Every day, our Nation’s law enforce-
ment officers put their uniforms on and
go to work not knowing if they will
make it home. They selflessly protect
us while asking nothing in return.
The establishment of this museum
serves as a reminder of the great sac-
rifices that law enforcement officers
make. By educating the public on their
work, the museum serves as a vital re-
source in sharing the daily experiences
of our men and women in uniform.
Madam Speaker, H.R. 1865, the Na-
tional Law Enforcement Museum Com-
memorative Coin Act, directs the U.S.
Treasury to mint a coin in 2021 in com-
memoration of the opening of the Na-
tional Law Enforcement Museum here
in Washington, D.C.
Additionally, the proceeds of this im-
portant commemorative coin will go to
support the National Law Enforcement
Museum and to ensure that it is able to
maintain a robust and diverse level of
programming.
Madam Speaker, the passage of H.R.
1865 will greatly honor our Nation’s law
enforcement and further support this
remarkable institution. We should do
our part by passing this bipartisan
piece of legislation to create this com-
memorative coin.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
PASCRELL), a distinguished gentleman
and the sponsor of this important piece
of legislation.
Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I
thank Mr. SCOTT for his comments.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in
strong support of our brave men and
women in blue who put their lives on
the line every day to protect our com-
munities.
In recognition of their service, my
co-chair, the co-chair of first respond-
ers and our police, he and I go beyond
which side of the aisle we sit on to do
what is right.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank Mr.
RUTHERFORD, JOHN RUTHERFORD, for
his bipartisan work in this area, a
former long-time sheriff. So I am real-
ly talking about the gentleman also in
this bill, because he put his life on the
line for quite a few years in Duval
County, I believe.
So in recognition of their service, I
helped pass the National Law Enforce-
ment Museum Act very early when I
got to Congress. It was signed into law
by President Bill Clinton. He signed it
faster than I was able to get it passed.
He signed it on November 9, 2000.
This museum honors the service of
local, State, and Federal law enforce-
ment officers in the United States.
A decade later, construction of the
museum began at Judiciary Square in
this great city, right across the street
from the National Law Enforcement
Memorial. Construction was just com-
pleted last year. This museum serves
as a tribute to the lives, the sacrifices,
and the service of our Nation’s law en-
forcement.
b 1730
This museum will play a vital role,
as was mentioned before by the gentle-
woman, in educating the public on the
varied work of our Nation’s law en-
forcement officers—which I contend
most people in the Congress are igno-
rant of—as well as promoting the safe-
ty of the men and women in uniform.
To build on this support, I introduced
H.R. 1865, the National Law Enforce-
ment Museum Commemorative Coin
Act, to direct the Department of the
Treasury to mint a coin in commemo-
ration of the opening of this great mu-
seum.
Proceeds from the sale of the com-
memorative coins will provide a much-
needed funding stream to the nonprofit
National Law Enforcement Officers
Memorial Fund for educational and
outreach programs and exhibits at the
National Law Enforcement Museum.
This will ensure our Nation’s finest are
recognized properly for generations to
come.
Madam Speaker, I would like to take
a moment now to recognize those offi-
cers who have made the ultimate sac-
rifice for their communities. In 2018
and so far in 2019, we have mourned the
loss of 266 men and women who died in
the line of duty, three of whom served
in the State of New Jersey.
The first officer that I will mention
is Tamby Yagan of the Paterson Police
Department—my town—who spent 13
years of service in the police depart-
ment. Officer Yagan tragically died in
an automobile crash on April 22, 2018.
Lieutenant Christopher Robateau
from the Jersey City Police Depart-
ment passed on January 5, 2018, after
being struck by a vehicle.
And New Jersey State Police Trooper
Robert Emmet Nagle, who passed on
November 26, 2018, because of a 9/11-re-
lated illness.
I grieve for their families and loved
ones. I know the House does also.
I thank Majority Leader STENY
HOYER and Chairwoman MAXINE
WATERS for bringing this legislation to
the floor. I also thank my good friend
and partner in chairing the bipartisan
House Law Enforcement Caucus, Con-
gressman JOHN RUTHERFORD, a former
sheriff, as I said before. He co-authored
this bill.
Finally, I thank Marcia Ferranto,
the CEO of the National Law Enforce-
ment Officers Memorial Fund, for her
and her colleagues’ work on this bill
and the efforts to make the National
Law Enforcement Museum a success.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I yield an additional 1
minute to the gentleman from New
Jersey.
Mr. PASCRELL. This bill has strong
support from several law enforcement
groups, including Concerns of Police
Survivors, the Federal Law Enforce-
ment Officers Association, the Fra-
ternal Order of Police, the National As-
sociation of Police Organizations, the
National Sheriffs’ Association, and the
Police Foundation.
Madam Speaker, I strongly support
H.R. 1865, and I look forward to its pas-
sage and into law.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Speaker, it is
now my privilege to yield 3 minutes to
the gentleman from Florida (Mr. RUTH-
ERFORD), the Republican lead and co-
chair of the Law Enforcement Caucus.
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker,
I thank my kind colleague from Mis-
souri for this opportunity.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
H.R. 1865, which will give our law en-
forcement officers and their long hon-
orable history the recognition that
they so deserve.
The National Law Enforcement Mu-
seum Commemorative Coin Act will
have the Treasury, as was mentioned
earlier, mint a commemorative coin in
recognition of the newly opened Na-
tional Law Enforcement Museum here
in Washington, D.C. The proceeds col-
lected from the sale of this coin will be
given to the museum to support its op-
erations.
As you know, Madam Speaker, mil-
lions come from around the world to
visit our Nation’s Capital every year.
They learn about our culture, our his-
tory, and our founding principles. Now,
they may also visit the National Law
Enforcement Museum to learn about
our heroic police officers who dedicated
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.057 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8507
October 28, 2019
their lives and, in too many instances,
made the supreme sacrifice laying
down their lives in order to keep their
community safe.
As a former sheriff of Jacksonville,
Florida, I saw the personal sacrifices
and brave actions by countless officers
under my command. Law enforcement
officers around the country put on the
uniform every day and they head out
to protect their community, willing to
sacrifice their life for their friends and
neighbors. Sadly, too many of those of-
ficers do not return home from their
shift.
So far this year, 99 officers have lost
their lives in the line of duty, offering
their full measure of devotion to their
community. This bill will ensure that
their stories be told for generations to
come.
I thank my good friend, Congressman
PASCRELL from New Jersey, co-chair of
the Law Enforcement Caucus. His sup-
port, respect, and true concern for law
enforcement across this country is
greatly appreciated by all of those or-
ganizations and men and women that
he just listed.
Madam Speaker, I hope that all of
my colleagues will join me today in
supporting our brave law enforcement
officers across this country and pass
this important bill.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Speaker, I
have no more speakers, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr.
DAVID SCOTT) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1865, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
WOMEN’S SUFFRAGE CENTENNIAL
COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and pass the bill (H.R. 2423) to require
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint
coins in commemoration of ratification
of the 19th Amendment to the Con-
stitution of the United States, giving
women in the United States the right
to vote, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2423
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Women’s
Suffrage Centennial Commemorative Coin
Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS; PURPOSE.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Lucretia
Mott organized the first Women’s Rights
Convention in Seneca Falls, New York. 68
women and 32 men signed the Declaration of
Sentiments at the Convention in July 1848.
(2) The Declaration of Sentiments was
modeled after the Declaration of Independ-
ence and declared that ‘‘all men and women
are created equal’’, linking women’s rights
directly to the founding ideals of the United
States.
(3) Suffrage activists, including Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, Harriet
Tubman, Sojourner Truth, Ida B. Wells,
Jovita Idar, Inez Millholland, Mary Church
Terrell, Anne Dallas Dudley, Carrie Chap-
man Cat, Alice Paul, Lucy Burns, Esther Ho-
bart Morris, and many others, conducted
over 900 local, State, and Federal campaigns
over a 72-year time span to win women the
right to vote.
(4) On November 6, 1917, New York granted
women the right to vote, which was an act
that created momentum for the national
movement that culminated in the ratifica-
tion of the 19th Amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States 3 years later.
(5) The 19th Amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States (‘‘The Susan B. An-
thony Amendment’’) guarantees all United
States women the right to vote and was
passed by the 66th Congress of the United
States on June 4, 1919.
(6) On August 9, 1920, right before the rati-
fication period was set to expire, Governor
Albert H. Roberts called a special session of
the Tennessee General Assembly to consider
the amendment. Pro-suffrage and anti-suf-
frage activists from around the country de-
scended on Nashville, Tennessee, intent on
influencing the legislature.
(7) After the amendment was defeated in a
48–48 tie vote, Tennessee State Representa-
tive Harry T. Burn from McMinn County
cast the deciding favorable vote after receiv-
ing a note from his mother, Phoebe
Ensminger Burn, imploring him to vote yes
for ratification.
(8) On August 18, 1920, Tennessee became
the 36th and final State needed to pass the
19th Amendment, ensuring its ratification
pursuant to Article V of the Constitution of
the United States.
(9) The 19th Amendment was ratified on
August 26, 1920, when Secretary of State
Bainbridge Colby issued a proclamation an-
nouncing it has become part of the Constitu-
tion of the United States.
(10) The ratification of the 19th Amend-
ment marked the single largest extension of
voting rights in United States history,
enfranchising 27,000,000 American women in
the United States.
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this Act is—
(1) to honor and commemorate the work of
women suffrage activists in the late 19th and
early 20th centuries;
(2) to increase public awareness and appre-
ciation for the history of the women’s suf-
frage movement; and
(3) to encourage all women in the United
States to exercise their hard-won franchise
and to become involved in civic life if they
so choose.
SEC. 3. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.
(a) $1 SILVER COINS.—The Secretary of the
Treasury (hereafter in this Act referred to as
the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall mint and issue not
more than 400,000 $1 coins, which shall—
(1) weigh 26.73 grams;
(2) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
(3) contain at least 90 percent silver.
(b) LEGAL TENDER.—The coins minted
under this Act shall be legal tender, as pro-
vided in section 5103 of title 31, United States
Code.
(c) NUMISMATIC ITEMS.—For purposes of
sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United
States Code, all coins minted under this Act
shall be considered to be numismatic items.
SEC. 4. DESIGN OF COIN.
(a) DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The design of the coins
minted under this Act shall be emblematic
of the women who played a vital role in ral-
lying support for the 19th Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
(2) DESIGNATIONS AND INSCRIPTIONS.—On
each coin minted under this Act, there shall
be—
(A) a designation of the value of the coin;
(B) an inscription of the year ‘‘2020’’; and
(C) inscriptions of the words ‘‘Liberty’’,
‘‘In God We Trust’’, ‘‘United States of Amer-
ica’’, and ‘‘E Pluribus Unum.’’
(b) SELECTION.—The design for the coins
minted under this Act shall—
(1) contain motifs that honor Susan B. An-
thony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Carrie Chap-
man Catt, Harriet Tubman, Mary Church
Terrell, Alice Paul, Lide Meriwether, Ida B.
Wells, and other suffrage activists of the late
19th century and early 20th centuries;
(2) be selected by the Secretary, after con-
sultation with the Smithsonian Institution’s
American Women’s History Initiative, and
the Commission of Fine Arts; and
(3) be reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Ad-
visory Committee.
SEC. 5. ISSUANCE OF COINS.
(a) QUALITY OF COINS.—Coins minted under
this Act shall be issued in uncirculated and
proof qualities.
(b) MINT FACILITIES.—Only 1 facility of the
United States Mint may be used to strike
any particular quality of the coins minted
under this Act.
(c) PERIOD FOR ISSUANCE.—The Secretary
may issue coins under this Act only during
the period beginning on January 1, 2020, and
ending on December 31, 2020.
SEC. 6. SALE OF COINS.
(a) SALE PRICE.—The coins issued under
this Act shall be sold by the Secretary at a
price equal to the sum of—
(1) the face value of the coins;
(2) the surcharge provided in section 7(a)
with respect to such coins; and
(3) the cost of designing and issuing the
coins (including labor, materials, dies, use of
machinery, overhead expenses, marketing,
and shipping).
(b) BULK SALES.—The Secretary shall
make bulk sales of the coins issued under
this Act at a reasonable discount.
(c) PREPAID ORDERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ac-
cept prepaid orders for the coins minted
under this Act before the issuance of such
coins.
(2) DISCOUNT.—Sale prices with respect to
prepaid orders under paragraph (1) shall be
at a reasonable discount.
SEC. 7. SURCHARGES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—All sales of coins issued
under this Act shall include a surcharge of
$10 per coin for the $1 coin described under
section 3(a).
(b) DISTRIBUTION.—Subject to section
5134(f) of title 31, United States Code, and
section 8(2), all surcharges received by the
Secretary from the sale of coins issued under
this Act shall be promptly paid by the Sec-
retary to the Smithsonian Institution’s
American Women’s History Initiative for the
purpose of—
(1) collecting, studying, and establishing
programs relating to women’s contributions
to various fields and throughout different pe-
riods of history that have influenced the di-
rection of the United States; and
(2) creating exhibitions and programs that
recognize diverse perspectives on women’s
history and contributions.
(c) AUDITS.—The Smithsonian Institution’s
American Women’s History Initiative shall
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.058 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8508 October 28, 2019
be subject to the audit requirements of sec-
tion 5134(f)(2) of title 31, United States Code,
with regard to the amounts received under
subsection (b).
SEC. 8. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.
The Secretary shall take such actions as
may be necessary to ensure that—
(1) minting and issuing coins under this
Act will not result in any net cost to the
United States Government; and
(2) no funds, including applicable sur-
charges, shall be disbursed to any recipient
designated in section 7(b) until the total cost
of designing and issuing all of the coins au-
thorized by this Act (including labor, mate-
rials, dies, use of machinery, overhead ex-
penses, marketing, and shipping) is recov-
ered by the United States Treasury, con-
sistent with sections 5112(m) and 5134(f) of
title 31, United States Code.
SEC. 9. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. PAS-
CRELL). Pursuant to the rule, the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. DAVID
SCOTT) and the gentlewoman from Mis-
souri (Mrs. WAGNER) each will control
20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Georgia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members may have 5 legislative
days in which to revise and extend
their remarks on this legislation and
to insert extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, 2020 marks the centen-
nial anniversary of the ratification of
the 19th Amendment granting women
the right to vote. This historic centen-
nial offers an unparalleled opportunity
to commemorate a milestone of democ-
racy, and to honor the legacy of pio-
neers and patriots who blazed a trail to
lead women to the voting booth.
This bipartisan, bicameral legisla-
tion authorizes the Department of the
Treasury to mint $1 silver coins in 2020
to commemorate the work of women
suffrage activists in the late 19th and
early 20th century and increase public
awareness and appreciation for the his-
tory of the women’s suffrage move-
ment. Proceeds from sales of these
coins will go towards supporting the
Smithsonian Institution’s American
Women’s History Initiative for the pur-
pose of collecting, studying, and estab-
lishing programs recognizing diverse
perspectives on women’s history and
women’s contributions that have influ-
enced the direction of our great Na-
tion.
I thank Ms. STEFANIK for introducing
this bill, and I urge all Members to
vote ‘‘yes.’’
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
2423, the Women’s Suffrage Centennial
Commemorative Coin Act.
I thank the gentlewoman from New
York, Congresswoman STEFANIK, my
good friend, who has introduced and
brought this bill forward to the floor,
as well as the gentlewoman from Ten-
nessee, Senator BLACKBURN, for their
tireless work on this commemorative
coin bill. Congresswoman STEFANIK,
Senator BLACKBURN, and all of the
women in our conference have been
tireless supporters of this issue. 2020
marks the 100th anniversary of the pas-
sage of the 19th Amendment guaran-
teeing and protecting a woman’s con-
stitutional right to vote in this coun-
try.
I would be remiss if I did not recog-
nize and honor the work of the late
Congresswoman Jeannette Rankin.
Congresswoman Rankin founded the
Committee on Woman Suffrage, which
led the fight in the House of Represent-
atives for the constitutional amend-
ment that would grant women, nation-
wide, the right to vote. It is these ef-
forts for equality that we are com-
memorating today.
This historic centennial offers an un-
paralleled opportunity to commemo-
rate a milestone of democracy and to
shed light on and honor the legacy of
pioneers and patriots who blazed new
trails to lead women to the voting
booth.
Beginning in July of 1848, the first
women’s rights convention was held in
Seneca Falls, New York. Yet, it was
not until August of 1920, 140 years after
signing the Declaration of Independ-
ence, that the fight for a woman’s right
to vote concluded in Nashville, Ten-
nessee.
Mr. Speaker, Tennessee became the
36th and final State needed to ratify
the 19th Amendment, marking the sin-
gle largest extension of voting rights in
our Nation’s history, enfranchising 27
million American women.
Mr. Speaker, this bill will help en-
sure that the upcoming anniversary,
and the 72 years of tireless persever-
ance by three generations of dedicated
suffragists who sought to overturn cen-
turies of law and millennia of tradi-
tion, are commemorated and cele-
brated throughout the United States.
b 1745
Mr. Speaker, additionally, the Wom-
en’s Suffrage Centennial Commemora-
tive Coin Act will not cost any tax-
payer dollars. All funding will come
from the sale of the coins to private
citizens, with proceeds from the coin
going to support the Smithsonian In-
stitution’s American Women’s History
Initiative.
This initiative is intended to be the
Nation’s most comprehensive under-
taking to document, research, collect,
display, and share the rich and compel-
ling story of women in America.
Mr. Speaker, passage of H.R. 2423 will
honor this unforgettable movement
and support educating our future gen-
erations about the fight for women’s
equality. We should do our part by
passing this legislation to create this
commemorative coin.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Speaker, it is my distinct honor to
yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Michigan (Mrs. LAWRENCE), who is
a national leader in the fight for wom-
en’s voting rights and is the lead
Democratic sponsor of this historic and
important piece of legislation.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, it is
an honor to be here and to have the
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr. PAS-
CRELL) sitting in that seat.
I want to thank my colleague, Rep-
resentative SCOTT, and I want to start
by thanking our chairwoman, MAXINE
WATERS, for bringing this legislation to
the floor.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 2423, the Women’s Suffrage Cen-
tennial Commemorative Coin Act in-
troduced by my colleague, Ms.
STEFANIK, and myself.
As co-chair of the bipartisan Con-
gressional Caucus for Women’s Issues
and the co-chair of the Democratic
Women’s Caucus, I strongly support
this measure which honors the legacy
of suffragists who played a vital role in
rallying support for the 19th Amend-
ment to the Constitution of the United
States.
The suffragists began their organized
fight for women’s empowerment in 1848
in Seneca Falls, New York. They were
tireless and never gave up the fight.
For 72 years, the women leaders lob-
bied, marched, picketed, and protested
for the right to the ballot.
More importantly, proceeds from the
sales of these coins will support the
Smithsonian Institution’s American
Women’s History Initiative for the pur-
pose of collecting, studying, and estab-
lishing programs recognizing diverse
perspectives on women’s history and
women who have influenced the direc-
tion of this Nation.
Mr. Speaker, I like to always remind
people that women are 51 percent of
the population in this great country,
and we are now 106 strong Members of
the U.S. House of Representatives.
I also want to note that, on May 21 of
this year, the House celebrated its
100th anniversary of the House passage
of the 19th Amendment with the pas-
sage of H.R. 354, legislation I intro-
duced and which was supported by all
women Members of Congress. The Sen-
ate followed 2 weeks later, in June,
with the passage of the Senate resolu-
tion.
Today, over 68 million women par-
ticipate in elections, which would not
be possible without the suffragists who
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.028 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8509
October 28, 2019
never gave up the fight for equal
rights. Because of their hard work,
glass ceilings were broken and progress
prevailed.
Mr. Speaker, I know that the gen-
tleman stands today recognizing that
women are so important to the lives of
so many in this country and to our
strong government and democracy. I
urge my colleagues to support this leg-
islation.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from New
York (Ms. STEFANIK), the author of this
piece of legislation.
Ms. STEFANIK. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my friend, the gentlewoman from Mis-
souri, for yielding her time.
The first women’s rights convention
was held in Seneca Falls, New York, in
1848, marking the official debut of the
women’s suffrage movement, which
would extend over the course of the
next 72 years.
During this tumultuous time, genera-
tions of brave suffragists dedicated
their lives, refusing to give up in their
fight for a better and more equitable
future.
It wasn’t until August of 1920, 140
years after the Declaration of Inde-
pendence was signed, that this fight
culminated with the adoption of the
19th Amendment. Ratification of the
19th Amendment marked the single
largest expansion of voting rights in
United States history, enfranchising
over 27 million American women.
Mr. Speaker, 2020 marks the 100th an-
niversary of the passage of the 19th
Amendment, and I was proud to intro-
duce legislation with my colleague and
friend from Michigan (Mrs. LAWRENCE)
and my friend, Senator BLACKBURN
from Tennessee, to celebrate this his-
toric and monumental movement.
The Women’s Suffrage Centennial
Commemorative Coin Act is bipar-
tisan, bicameral legislation that au-
thorizes the Department of the Treas-
ury to mint $1 silver coins in 2020 to
commemorate the tremendous work of
women suffrage activists in the late
19th and early 20th centuries.
This bill ensures that, on the 100th
anniversary of the passage of the 19th
Amendment, the suffragists who dedi-
cated their lives fighting to extend this
fundamental right to women are com-
memorated and celebrated throughout
the United States.
I am looking forward to celebrating
the 100th anniversary next year in my
district, where one of the most vocal
advocates for women’s suffrage, Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton, was born and raised
in Johnstown, New York.
I would not have the opportunity to
serve in this body today were it not for
the bravery and determination of gen-
erations of suffragists.
Mr. Speaker, this is a unique oppor-
tunity to commemorate a milestone of
democracy, and it is my hope that this
bipartisan bill will encourage women
across our country to continue to be
active participants in civic life. I
strongly encourage my colleagues to
support this bill.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I con-
gratulate the gentlewoman from New
York (Ms. STEFANIK) and Congress-
woman LAWRENCE, also, for their tre-
mendous work on this, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, as I stand
here at this moment and listen to the
comments, I am reminded of a woman
whose name was Isabella. But in New
York City, one day, the Lord changed
her name because she had a vision from
God, and God changed her name from
Isabella to Sojourner Truth. She was a
pioneer in women’s rights and was at
the forefront of the battle coming out
in the 19th century for women’s rights,
a fearless leader.
Today, we have a statue honoring So-
journer Truth right here in the Capitol.
Mr. Speaker, I ask everyone to sup-
port this bill, and, hopefully, again, we
will have a unanimous vote on this
very important piece of legislation.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr.
DAVID SCOTT) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2423, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EDUCATING MEDICAL PROFES-
SIONALS AND OPTIMIZING
WORKFORCE EFFICIENCY AND
READINESS FOR HEALTH ACT OF
2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2781) to amend title VII of the
Public Health Service Act to reauthor-
ize certain programs relating to the
health professions workforce, and for
other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2781
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Educating Med-
ical Professionals and Optimizing Workforce Ef-
ficiency and Readiness for Health Act of 2019’’
or the ‘‘EMPOWER for Health Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF HEALTH PROFES-
SIONS WORKFORCE PROGRAMS.
(a) CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE.—Subsection (i)
of section 736 of the Public Health Service Act
(42 U.S.C. 293) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(i) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—To
carry out this section, there is authorized to be
appropriated $24,897,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024.’’.
(b) HEALTH PROFESSIONS TRAINING FOR DI-
VERSITY.—Section 740 of the Public Health Serv-
ice Act (42 U.S.C. 293d) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘$51,000,000
for fiscal year 2010, and such sums as may be
necessary for each of the fiscal years 2011
through 2014’’ and inserting ‘‘$51,419,000 for
each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024’’;
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘$5,000,000
for each of the fiscal years 2010 through 2014’’
and inserting ‘‘$1,250,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024’’; and
(3) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘$60,000,000
for fiscal year 2010 and such sums as may be
necessary for each of the fiscal years 2011
through 2014’’ and inserting ‘‘$20,000,000 for
each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024’’.
(c) PRIMARY CARE TRAINING AND ENHANCE-
MENT.—Section 747(c)(1) of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 293k(c)(1)) is amended by
striking ‘‘$125,000,000 for fiscal year 2010, and
such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal
years 2011 through 2014’’ and inserting
‘‘$51,371,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through
2024’’.
(d) TRAINING IN GENERAL, PEDIATRIC, AND
PUBLIC HEALTH DENTISTRY.—Section 748(f) of
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 293k–
2(f)) is amended by striking ‘‘$30,000,000 for fis-
cal year 2010 and such sums as may be nec-
essary for each of fiscal years 2011 through
2015’’ and inserting ‘‘$42,707,000 for each of fis-
cal years 2020 through 2024’’.
(e) AREA HEALTH EDUCATION CENTERS.—Sec-
tion 751(j)(1) of the Public Health Service Act
(42 U.S.C. 294a(j)(1)) is amended by striking
‘‘$125,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2010
through 2014’’ and inserting ‘‘$42,075,000 for
each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024’’.
(f) NATIONAL CENTER FOR HEALTHCARE WORK-
FORCE ANALYSIS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 761(e)(1)(A) of the
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
294n(e)(1)(A)) is amended by striking ‘‘$7,500,000
for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2014’’ and
inserting ‘‘$5,947,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2024’’.
(2) TECHNICAL CORRECTION.—Section 761(e)(2)
of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
294n(e)(2)) is amended by striking ‘‘subsection
(a)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph (1)’’.
(g) PUBLIC HEALTH WORKFORCE.—Section
770(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 295e(a)) is amended by striking
‘‘$43,000,000 for fiscal year 2011, and such sums
as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years
2012 through 2015’’ and inserting ‘‘$17,850,000
for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024’’.
SEC. 3. EDUCATION AND TRAINING RELATING TO
GERIATRICS.
Section 753 of the Public Health Service Act
(42 U.S.C. 294c) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 753. EDUCATION AND TRAINING RELATING
TO GERIATRICS.
‘‘(a) GERIATRICS WORKFORCE ENHANCEMENT
PROGRAMS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall award
grants or contracts under this subsection to en-
tities described in paragraph (1), (3), or (4) of
section 799B, section 801(2), or section 865(d), or
other health professions schools or programs ap-
proved by the Secretary, for the establishment or
operation of geriatrics workforce enhancement
programs that meet the requirements of para-
graph (2).
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS.—A geriatrics workforce
enhancement program meets the requirements of
this paragraph if such program supports the de-
velopment of a health care workforce that maxi-
mizes patient and family engagement and im-
proves health outcomes for older adults by inte-
grating geriatrics with primary care and other
appropriate specialties. Special emphasis should
be placed on providing the primary care work-
force with the knowledge and skills to care for
older adults and collaborating with community
partners to address gaps in health care for older
adults through individual, system, community,
and population level changes. Areas of pro-
grammatic focus may include the following:
‘‘(A) Transforming clinical training environ-
ments to integrated geriatrics and primary care
delivery systems to ensure trainees are well pre-
pared to practice in and lead in such systems.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.061 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8510 October 28, 2019
‘‘(B) Developing providers from multiple dis-
ciplines and specialties to work interprofes-
sionally to assess and address the needs and
preferences of older adults and their families
and caregivers at the individual, community,
and population levels with cultural and lin-
guistic competency.
‘‘(C) Creating and delivering community-
based programs that will provide older adults
and their families and caregivers with the
knowledge and skills to improve health out-
comes and the quality of care for such adults.
‘‘(D) Providing Alzheimer’s disease and re-
lated dementias (ADRD) education to the fami-
lies and caregivers of older adults, direct care
workers, health professions students, faculty,
and providers.
‘‘(3) DURATION.—The Secretary shall award
grants and contracts under paragraph (1) for a
period not to exceed five years.
‘‘(4) APPLICATION.—To be eligible to receive a
grant or contract under paragraph (1), an entity
described in such paragraph shall submit to the
Secretary an application at such time, in such
manner, and containing such information as the
Secretary may require, including the specific
measures the applicant will use to demonstrate
that the project is improving the quality of care
provided to older adults in the applicant’s re-
gion, which may include—
‘‘(A) improvements in access to care provided
by a health professional with training in geri-
atrics or gerontology;
‘‘(B) improvements in family caregiver capac-
ity to care for older adults;
‘‘(C) patient outcome data demonstrating an
improvement in older adult health status or care
quality; and
‘‘(D) reports on how the applicant will imple-
ment specific innovations with the target audi-
ence to improve older adults’ health status or
the quality of care.
‘‘(5) EQUITABLE GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION.—
The Secretary may award grants and contracts
under paragraph (1) in a manner which will eq-
uitably distribute such grants among the var-
ious regions of the United States.
‘‘(6) QUALIFICATIONS.—In awarding grants
and contracts under paragraph (2), the Sec-
retary shall consider programs that—
‘‘(A) have the goal of improving and providing
comprehensive coordinated care of older adults,
including medical, dental, and psychosocial
needs;
‘‘(B) demonstrate coordination with other pro-
grammatic efforts funded under this program or
other public or private entities;
‘‘(C) support the training and retraining of
faculty, preceptors, primary care providers, and
providers in other specialties to increase their
knowledge of geriatrics and gerontology;
‘‘(D) provide clinical experiences across care
settings, including ambulatory care, hospitals,
post-acute care, nursing homes, federally quali-
fied health centers, and home and community-
based services;
‘‘(E) emphasize education and engagement of
family caregivers on disease self-management,
medication management, and stress reduction
strategies;
‘‘(F) provide training to the health care work-
force on disease self-management, motivational
interviewing, medication management, and
stress reduction strategies;
‘‘(G) provide training to the health care work-
force on social determinants of health in order
to better address the geriatric health care needs
of diverse populations with cultural and lin-
guistic competency;
‘‘(H) integrate geriatrics competencies and
interprofessional collaborative practice into
health care education and training curricula for
residents, fellows, and students;
‘‘(I) substantially benefit rural or underserved
populations of older adults or conduct outreach
to communities that have a shortage of geriatric
workforce professionals;
‘‘(J) integrate behavioral health competencies
into primary care practice, especially with re-
spect to elder abuse, pain management, and ad-
vance care planning; or
‘‘(K) offer short-term intensive courses that—
‘‘(i) focus on geriatrics, gerontology, chronic
care management, and long-term care that pro-
vide supplemental training for faculty members
in medical schools and other health professions
schools or graduate programs in psychology,
pharmacy, nursing, social work, dentistry, pub-
lic health, allied health, or other health dis-
ciplines, as approved by the Secretary; and
‘‘(ii) are open to current faculty, and appro-
priately credentialed volunteer faculty and
practitioners, to upgrade their knowledge and
clinical skills for the care of older adults and
adults with functional and cognitive limitations
and to enhance their interdisciplinary teaching
skills.
‘‘(7) PRIORITY.—In awarding grants under
paragraph (1), particularly with respect to
awarding, in fiscal year 2020, any amount ap-
propriated for such fiscal year for purposes of
carrying out this subsection that is in excess of
the amount appropriated for the most previous
fiscal year for which appropriations were made
for such purposes, the Secretary may give pri-
ority to entities that operate—
‘‘(A) in communities that have a shortage of
geriatric workforce professionals; and
‘‘(B) in States in which no entity has pre-
viously received an award under such para-
graph (including as in effect before the date of
enactment of the Educating Medical Profes-
sionals and Optimizing Workforce Efficiency
and Readiness for Health Act of 2019).
‘‘(8) AWARD AMOUNTS.—Awards under para-
graph (1) shall be in an amount determined by
the Secretary. Entities that submit applications
under this subsection that describe a plan for
providing geriatric education and training for
home health workers and family caregivers are
eligible to receive $100,000 per year more than
entities that do not include a description of such
a plan.
‘‘(9) REPORTING.—Each entity awarded a
grant under paragraph (1) shall submit an an-
nual report to the Secretary on financial and
programmatic performance under such grant,
which may include factors such as the number
of trainees, the number of professions and dis-
ciplines, the number of partnerships with health
care delivery sites, the number of faculty and
practicing professionals who participated in
continuing education programs, and such other
factors as the Secretary may require.
‘‘(b) GERIATRIC ACADEMIC CAREER AWARDS.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.—The Sec-
retary shall establish a program to award
grants, to be known as Geriatric Academic Ca-
reer Awards, to eligible entities applying on be-
half of eligible individuals to promote the career
development of such individuals as academic
geriatricians or other academic geriatrics health
professionals.
‘‘(2) ELIGIBILITY.—
‘‘(A) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—For purposes of this
subsection, the term ‘eligible entity’ means—
‘‘(i) an accredited school of allopathic medi-
cine, osteopathic medicine, nursing, social work,
psychology, dentistry, pharmacy, or allied
health; or
‘‘(ii) another type of accredited health profes-
sions school or graduate program deemed by the
Secretary to be eligible under this subsection.
‘‘(B) ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this sub-
section, the term ‘eligible individual’ means an
individual who—
‘‘(I) has a junior, nontenured, faculty ap-
pointment at an accredited school of allopathic
medicine, osteopathic medicine, nursing, social
work, psychology, dentistry, pharmacy, or allied
health or at another type of accredited health
professions school or graduate program de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)(ii);
‘‘(II)(aa) is board certified or board eligible in
internal medicine, family practice, psychiatry,
or licensed dentistry, or has completed the train-
ing required for the individual’s discipline; and
‘‘(bb) is employed at an eligible entity; or
‘‘(III) has completed an approved fellowship
program in geriatrics or gerontology, or has
completed specialty training in geriatrics or ger-
ontology as required for the individual’s dis-
cipline and any additional geriatrics or geron-
tology training as required by the Secretary.
‘‘(ii) SPECIAL RULE.—If during the period of
an award under this subsection respecting an
eligible individual, the individual is promoted to
associate professor and thereby no longer meets
the criteria of clause (i)(I), the individual may
continue to be treated as an eligible individual
through the term of the award.
‘‘(3) LIMITATIONS.—An eligible entity may not
receive an award under paragraph (1) on behalf
of an eligible individual unless the eligible enti-
ty—
‘‘(A) submits to the Secretary an application,
at such time, in such manner, and containing
such information as the Secretary may require,
and the Secretary approves such application;
‘‘(B) provides, in such form and manner as
the Secretary may require, assurances that the
eligible individual on whose behalf an applica-
tion was submitted under subparagraph (A) will
meet the service requirement described in para-
graph (8); and
‘‘(C) provides, in such form and manner as the
Secretary may require, assurances that such in-
dividual has a full-time faculty appointment in
an accredited health professions school or grad-
uate program and documented commitment from
such school or program to spend 75 percent of
the individual’s time that is supported by the
award on teaching and developing skills in
interprofessional education in geriatrics.
‘‘(4) REQUIREMENTS.—In awarding grants
under this subsection, the Secretary—
‘‘(A) shall give priority to eligible entities that
apply on behalf of eligible individuals who are
on the faculty of institutions that integrate geri-
atrics education, training, and best practices
into academic program criteria;
‘‘(B) may give priority to eligible entities that
operate a geriatrics workforce enhancement pro-
gram under subsection (a);
‘‘(C) shall ensure that grants are equitably
distributed across the various geographical re-
gions of the United States, including rural and
underserved areas;
‘‘(D) shall pay particular attention to geri-
atrics health care workforce needs among un-
derserved populations, diverse communities, and
rural areas;
‘‘(E) may not require an eligible individual, or
an eligible entity applying on behalf of an eligi-
ble individual, to be a recipient of a grant or
contract under this part; and
‘‘(F) shall pay the full amount of the award
to the eligible entity.
‘‘(5) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.—An eligible
entity receiving an award under paragraph (1)
on behalf of an eligible individual shall provide
assurances to the Secretary that funds provided
to such individual under this subsection will be
used only to supplement, not to supplant, the
amount of Federal, State, and local funds other-
wise expended by such individual.
‘‘(6) AMOUNT AND TERM.—
‘‘(A) AMOUNT.—The amount of an award
under this subsection for eligible individuals
who are physicians shall equal $100,000 for fis-
cal year 2020, adjusted for subsequent fiscal
years to reflect the increase in the Consumer
Price Index. The Secretary shall determine the
amount of an award under this subsection for
individuals who are not physicians.
‘‘(B) TERM.—The term of any award made
under this subsection shall not exceed 5 years.
‘‘(7) SERVICE REQUIREMENT.—An eligible indi-
vidual on whose behalf an application was sub-
mitted and approved under paragraph (3)(A)
shall provide training in clinical geriatrics or
gerontology, including the training of inter-
professional teams of health care professionals.
‘‘(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—To
carry out this section, there is authorized to be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.029 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8511
October 28, 2019
appropriated $51,000,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024. Notwithstanding the pre-
ceding sentence, no funds shall be made avail-
able to carry out subsection (b) for a fiscal year
unless the amount made available to carry out
this section for such fiscal year is more than the
amount made available to carry out this section
for fiscal year 2017.’’.
SEC. 4. INVESTMENT IN TOMORROW’S PEDIATRIC
HEALTH CARE WORKFORCE.
Section 775 of the Public Health Service Act
(42 U.S.C. 295f) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 775. INVESTMENT IN TOMORROW’S PEDI-
ATRIC HEALTH CARE WORKFORCE.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall estab-
lish and carry out a program of entering into
pediatric specialty loan repayment agreements
with qualified health professionals under
which—
‘‘(1) the qualified health professional agrees to
a period of not less than 2 years of obligated
service during which the professional will—
‘‘(A) participate in an accredited pediatric
medical subspecialty, pediatric surgical spe-
cialty, child and adolescent psychiatry sub-
specialty, or child and adolescent mental and
behavioral health residency or fellowship; or
‘‘(B) be employed full-time in providing pedi-
atric medical subspecialty care, pediatric sur-
gical specialty care, child and adolescent psy-
chiatry subspecialty care, or child and adoles-
cent mental and behavioral health care, includ-
ing substance use disorder prevention and treat-
ment services, in an area with—
‘‘(i) a shortage of health care professionals
practicing in the pediatric medical subspecialty,
the pediatric surgical specialty, the child and
adolescent psychiatry subspecialty, or child and
adolescent mental and behavioral health, as ap-
plicable; and
‘‘(ii) a sufficient pediatric population, as de-
termined by the Secretary, to support the addi-
tion of a practitioner in the pediatric medical
subspecialty, the pediatric surgical specialty,
the child and adolescent psychiatry sub-
specialty, or child and adolescent mental and
behavioral health, as applicable; and
‘‘(2) the Secretary agrees to make payments on
the principal and interest of undergraduate,
graduate, or graduate medical education loans
of the qualified health professional of not more
than $35,000 a year for each year of agreed upon
service under paragraph (1) for a period of not
more than 3 years.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) PEDIATRIC MEDICAL SPECIALISTS AND PE-
DIATRIC SURGICAL SPECIALISTS.—For purposes of
loan repayment agreements under this section
with respect to pediatric medical subspecialty
and pediatric surgical specialty practitioners,
the term ‘qualified health professional’ means a
licensed physician who—
‘‘(A) is entering or receiving training in an ac-
credited pediatric medical subspecialty or pedi-
atric surgical subspecialty residency or fellow-
ship; or
‘‘(B) has completed (but not prior to the end
of the calendar year in which the Educating
Medical Professionals and Optimizing Work-
force Efficiency and Readiness for Health Act of
2019 is enacted) the training described in sub-
paragraph (A).
‘‘(2) CHILD AND ADOLESCENT PSYCHIATRY AND
MENTAL AND BEHAVIORAL HEALTH.—For pur-
poses of loan repayment agreements under this
section with respect to child and adolescent
mental and behavioral health care, the term
‘qualified health professional’ means a health
care professional who—
‘‘(A) has received specialized training or clin-
ical experience in child and adolescent mental
health in psychiatry, psychology, school psy-
chology, or psychiatric nursing;
‘‘(B) has a license or certification in a State to
practice allopathic medicine, osteopathic medi-
cine, psychology, school psychology, or psy-
chiatric nursing; or
‘‘(C) is a mental health service professional
who has completed (but not before the end of
the calendar year in which the Educating Med-
ical Professionals and Optimizing Workforce Ef-
ficiency and Readiness for Health Act of 2019 is
enacted) specialized training or clinical experi-
ence in child and adolescent mental health de-
scribed in subparagraph (A).
‘‘(3) ADDITIONAL ELIGIBILITY REQUIRE-
MENTS.—The Secretary may not enter into a
loan repayment agreement under this section
with a qualified health professional unless—
‘‘(A) the professional agrees to work in, or for
a provider serving, an area or community with
a shortage of eligible qualified health profes-
sionals (as defined in paragraphs (1) and (2));
‘‘(B) the professional is a United States cit-
izen, a permanent legal United States resident,
or lawfully present in the United States; and
‘‘(C) if the professional is enrolled in a grad-
uate program, the program is accredited, and
the professional has an acceptable level of aca-
demic standing (as determined by the Sec-
retary).
‘‘(c) PRIORITY.—In entering into loan repay-
ment agreements under this section, the Sec-
retary shall give priority to applicants who—
‘‘(1) have familiarity with evidence-based
methods and cultural and linguistic competence
in health care services; and
‘‘(2) demonstrate financial need.
‘‘(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated for
each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024—
‘‘(1) $30,000,000 to carry out this section with
respect to loan repayment agreements with
qualified health professionals described in sub-
section (b)(1); and
‘‘(2) $20,000,000 to carry out this section with
respect to loan repayment agreements with re-
spect to qualified health professionals described
in subsection (b)(2).’’.
SEC. 5. INCREASING WORKFORCE DIVERSITY IN
THE PROFESSIONS OF PHYSICAL
THERAPY, OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY,
AUDIOLOGY, AND SPEECH-LAN-
GUAGE PATHOLOGY.
Title VII of the Public Health Service Act is
amended—
(1) by redesignating part G (42 U.S.C. 295j et
seq.) as part H; and
(2) by inserting after part F (42 U.S.C. 294n et
seq.) the following new part:
‘‘PART G—INCREASING WORKFORCE DI-
VERSITY IN THE PROFESSIONS OF PHYS-
ICAL THERAPY, OCCUPATIONAL THER-
APY, AUDIOLOGY, AND SPEECH-LAN-
GUAGE PATHOLOGY
‘‘SEC. 783. SCHOLARSHIPS AND STIPENDS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may award
grants and contracts to eligible entities to in-
crease educational opportunities in the profes-
sions of physical therapy, occupational therapy,
audiology, and speech-language pathology for
eligible individuals by—
‘‘(1) providing student scholarships or sti-
pends, including for—
‘‘(A) completion of an accelerated degree pro-
gram;
‘‘(B) completion of an associate’s, bachelor’s,
master’s, or doctoral degree program; and
‘‘(C) entry by a diploma or associate’s degree
practitioner into a bridge or degree completion
program;
‘‘(2) providing assistance for completion of
prerequisite courses or other preparation nec-
essary for acceptance for enrollment in the eligi-
ble entity; and
‘‘(3) carrying out activities to increase the re-
tention of students in one or more programs in
the professions of physical therapy, occupa-
tional therapy, audiology, and speech-language
pathology.
‘‘(b) CONSIDERATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS.—
In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary
shall take into consideration the recommenda-
tions of national organizations representing the
professions of physical therapy, occupational
therapy, audiology, and speech-language pa-
thology, including the American Physical Ther-
apy Association, the American Occupational
Therapy Association, the American Speech-Lan-
guage-Hearing Association, the American Acad-
emy of Audiology, and the Academy of Doctors
of Audiology.
‘‘(c) REQUIRED INFORMATION AND CONDITIONS
FOR AWARD RECIPIENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may require
recipients of awards under this section to report
to the Secretary concerning the annual admis-
sion, retention, and graduation rates for eligible
individuals in programs of the recipient leading
to a degree in any of the professions of physical
therapy, occupational therapy, audiology, and
speech-language pathology.
‘‘(2) FALLING RATES.—If any of the rates re-
ported by a recipient under paragraph (1) fall
below the average for such recipient over the
two years preceding the year covered by the re-
port, the recipient shall provide the Secretary
with plans for immediately improving such
rates.
‘‘(3) INELIGIBILITY.—A recipient described in
paragraph (2) shall be ineligible for continued
funding under this section if the plan of the re-
cipient fails to improve the rates within the 1-
year period beginning on the date such plan is
implemented.
‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES.—The term ‘eligible en-
tity’ means an education program that—
‘‘(A) is accredited by—
‘‘(i) the Council on Academic Accreditation in
Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology or
the Accreditation Commission for Audiology
Education;
‘‘(ii) the Commission on Accreditation in
Physical Therapy Education; or
‘‘(iii) the Accreditation Council for Occupa-
tional Therapy Education; and
‘‘(B) is carrying out a program for recruiting
and retaining students underrepresented in the
professions of physical therapy, occupational
therapy, audiology, and speech-language pa-
thology (including racial or ethnic minorities, or
students from disadvantaged backgrounds).
‘‘(2) ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL.—The term ‘eligible
individual’ means an individual who—
‘‘(A) is a member of a class of persons who are
underrepresented in the professions of physical
therapy, occupational therapy, audiology, and
speech-language pathology (including individ-
uals who are racial or ethnic minorities, or are
from disadvantaged backgrounds);
‘‘(B) has a financial need for a scholarship or
stipend; and
‘‘(C) is enrolled (or accepted for enrollment) at
an audiology, speech-language pathology, phys-
ical therapy, or occupational therapy program
as a full-time student at an eligible entity.
‘‘(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry
out this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal
years 2020 through 2024.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Illinois (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Illinois.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous materials on H.R.
2781.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.029 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8512 October 28, 2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of H.R. 2781, the EMPOWER for
Health Act of 2019, or Educating Med-
ical Professionals and Optimizing
Workforce Efficiency and Readiness for
Health Act, which I introduced with
my colleague, Congressman BURGESS,
in May. This legislation advanced out
of the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce by unanimous vote.
By 2032, the United States may see a
shortage of up to 122,000 physicians, but
we already have a significant physician
shortage. If healthcare access were eq-
uitable across all races, socioeconomic
statuses, and geographic locations, the
United States would need almost
100,000 more doctors immediately.
This legislation is one solution to
this real problem. The EMPOWER for
Health Act will spur growth in our
healthcare workforce and ensure in-
creased funding for several title VII
health, education, and training pro-
grams over the next 5 years.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
As an author of the Educating Med-
ical Professionals and Optimizing
Workforce Efficiency and Readiness for
Health Act of 2019, also known as the
EMPOWER for Health Act, I rise in
support of this bill, H.R. 2781. This
moved with strong bipartisan support
through regular order in the Energy
and Commerce Committee and its
Health Subcommittee.
As the chairman of the Energy and
Commerce Health Subcommittee in the
last Congress, I made it a priority to
get this bill to the House floor. While I
succeeded in doing so, the Senate did
not take up the legislation; so I hope,
this year, with plenty of time and plen-
ty of runway, the Senate will reauthor-
ize these critically important pro-
grams.
This legislation reauthorizes the title
VII health professions workforce pro-
grams for fiscal years 2020 through
2024.
Title VII programs have expired, but
they continue to receive appropria-
tions. In fact, in fiscal year 2018, the
appropriations levels for these pro-
grams actually increased. Reauthor-
izing these physician workforce pro-
grams will provide the needed stability
to those who depend upon this funding.
b 1800
Title VII of the Public Health Serv-
ices Act includes programs that are
vital to building and maintaining a
well-educated, well-trained physician
workforce. The EMPOWER Act reau-
thorizes the funding for Area Health
Education Centers at more than $40
million a year. These centers are crit-
ical in providing both medical edu-
cation and healthcare services to medi-
cally underserved areas.
The bill also reauthorizes programs
that incentivize diversity in the physi-
cian workforce, including the Centers
of Excellence program which this bill
authorizes at a level of $24 million per
year. This particular program provides
grants to medical schools that have a
disproportionate number of minority
students for the purpose of expanding
the school’s capacity or to improve
curriculum.
Primary care is an important aspect
of our Nation’s healthcare system, and
now many Americans receive the ma-
jority of their healthcare services
through primary care centers. H.R. 2781
reauthorizes funding for our Primary
Care Training and Enhancement Pro-
gram at more than $50 million a year.
This program provides grants to hos-
pitals and other professional schools to
develop and operate supplemental pri-
mary training programs.
Lastly, this bill aims to strengthen
our workforce that cares for our geri-
atric population. This bill makes
strides towards modernizing the Geri-
atric Workforce Enhancement program
and the Geriatric Academic Career
Awards. With an aging population, our
workforce needs to be adequately
trained in handling the unique needs of
our seniors. These two programs enable
physicians and other providers to be
able to achieve that training.
I want to thank Representative
SCHAKOWSKY and the staff of the En-
ergy and Commerce Committee for
their work on this legislation. Reau-
thorizing title VII is long overdue, es-
pecially in a time when our existing
physician workforce is struggling to
keep up with the demand for
healthcare services.
Madam Speaker, I urge support of
this legislation, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, for decades title VII
programs have assisted students from
minority and economically disadvan-
taged backgrounds to enter the health
professions by focusing on develop-
ment, retention, matriculation, and
graduation, but we still have a lot of
work to do.
In 1998 about 7 percent of the medical
school matriculants were Black, and 5
percent were Hispanic and Latino. In
2016 those numbers only increased to
8.2 percent for African Americans and
6.2 percent for Hispanics and Latinos. I
believe the extreme racial health dis-
parities in this country are directly
linked to the lack of underrepresented
minorities in medicine. This legisla-
tion reflects our commitment to a di-
verse workforce by authorizing higher
funding levels for these diversity pro-
grams.
We also have a rapidly growing popu-
lation of older Americans, as Mr. BUR-
GESS mentioned. This legislation will
address the extreme shortage of health
professionals expertly trained for care
of the rapidly growing and diverse pop-
ulation of older Americans.
As well, the pediatric workforce is at
a crisis point right now. In my home
State of Illinois, for example, we face
severe shortages of child and adoles-
cent psychiatrists. Children with spe-
cial or complex health issues often
have to wait months before a specialist
can see them, and this is unacceptable.
So this legislation will encourage phy-
sicians to specialize in pediatric care
by authorizing funding for this critical
program for the first time since 2010.
Finally, this bill also creates a new
program to increase diversity in the
professions of physical therapists, oc-
cupational therapists, audiologists, and
speech-language pathologists. This was
a section that was added by my col-
league from Illinois, BOBBY RUSH, and
we appreciate that.
This bill assures almost $2 billion in
funding over the next 5 years for these
essential programs.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, I have no additional
speakers and am prepared to close.
This is a good bill. It was a good bill
last Congress when we passed it then
and sent it over to the Senate. The au-
thorization on these programs has ex-
pired. They are continuing to receive
funding. The people who depend upon
these programs deserve the certainty
that reauthorization would allow.
Madam Speaker, I urge passage of
the bill, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I will close with this: I thank all the
Members who worked together to
produce this great legislation, espe-
cially my colleague, Congressman MI-
CHAEL BURGESS, who has been a cham-
pion of these issues and introduced the
bill along with me and the chairman of
our Energy and Commerce Committee,
Mr. PALLONE.
I also would like to give a quick
thank you to the Energy and Com-
merce Health Subcommittee staff on
both sides of the aisle and my health
policy advisor, Osaremen Okolo.
Madam Speaker, I would also like to
include in the RECORD a few letters and
statements from the Association of
American Medical Colleges, the Amer-
ican Academy of Pediatrics, the
Eldercare Workforce Alliance, the
American Geriatrics Society, the Na-
tional Association for Geriatric Edu-
cation and the National Hispanic Med-
ical Association all urging strong sup-
port for this legislation.
ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN MEDICAL COLLEGES
‘‘The HRSA Title VII programs improve
access to care for rural and underserved com-
munities and create a diverse and culturally
competent health workforce, which can en-
hance patients’ health outcomes,’’ said the
AAMC (Association of American Medical
Colleges). ‘‘We applaud the House of Rep-
resentatives for passing bipartisan Title VII
reauthorization and recognizing the need to
increase federal funding in our nation’s
health workforce infrastructure.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:19 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.064 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8513
October 28, 2019
AMERICAN GERIATRICS SOCIETY
‘‘The future we’re working for at the
AGS—a future when all older Americans
have access to high-quality, person-centered
care—begins by building the workforce to
make that possible, and by ensuring that
workforce can connect us to the tools and
supports we need as we grow older together,’’
observed Nancy E. Lundebjerg, MPA. CEO of
the AGS. ‘‘The EMPOWER for Health Act
will make that possible by supporting two
training programs that are as critical to our
future as they are widely supported, thanks
in large part to the bipartisan efforts that
will make this bill law.’’
ELDERCARE WORKFORCE ALLIANCE
‘‘Our nation faces a severe and growing
shortage of eldercare professionals with the
skills and training to meet the unique
healthcare needs of older adults,’’ said Amy
York, Executive Director of the Eldercare
Workforce Alliance. ‘‘EWA supports the EM-
POWER for Health Act of 2019 because it ex-
pands the only federal geriatrics training
program. That’s an investment in an
eldercare workforce that can support well-
coordinated, high-quality care for all older
Americans.’’
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR GERIATRIC
EDUCATION
‘‘NAGE is please to support the EMPOWER
Act which will enable the GWEP and GACA
programs to continue to train health care
professionals and caregivers across the na-
tion to care for older adults with the most
effective and efficient practices. We are par-
ticularly indebted to Representative Scha-
kowsky who is a true leader in aging and
health care policy.’’
AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS
‘‘Across the country, there are significant
shortages of pediatric subspecialists, which
lead to long commutes for parents seeking
care for their children and appointment wait
times that can last more than three months.
For a child with a complex, serious health
condition, three months can seem like a life-
time. Children with complex medical condi-
tions are among the most vulnerable; their
ability to see the right doctor in a reason-
able amount of time should not be deter-
mined by where they live. The EMPOWER
for Health Act reauthorizes the Pediatric
Subspecialty Loan Repayment Program,
which is an important step toward address-
ing the shortage and geographic disparities
that impact a child’s ability to access sub-
specialty care. The American Academy of
Pediatrics thanks Rep. Schakowsky (D–Ill.)
and Rep. Mike Burgess (R–Texas) for their
leadership advancing this important legisla-
tion.’’—American Academy of Pediatrics
President Kyle Yasuda, MD, FAAP
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR GERI-
ATRIC EDUCATION, NATIONAL ASSO-
CIATION OF GERIATRIC EDUCATION
CENTERS,
October 28, 2019.
Hon. JAN SCHAKOWSKY,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE SCHAKOWSKY: On be-
half of the HRSA Title VII and Title VIII
funded Geriatrics Workforce Enhancement
Programs (GWEPs) across the country,
thank you for your past support of geriatric
education and for introducing the EM-
POWER for Health Act of 2019, which is
scheduled to come to the floor of the House
for consideration today. The National Asso-
ciation for Geriatric Education (NAGE) is
pleased to offer our full support for the EM-
POWER Act, which will reauthorize the
GWEP and once again make the Geriatrics
Academic Career Award program (GACA) a
part of the effort to prepare the geriatrics
workforce for the aging of our population.
We and the growing numbers of older adults,
caregivers, and clinicians caring for elders
are pleased that you have been able to move
this bill forward and will urge the Senate to
follow this lead and provide the resources to
address our nation’s growing demand for
geriatric care.
We appreciate the many discussions that
your staff facilitated with NAGE, as well as
with the Eldercare Workforce Alliance, the
American Geriatrics Society, and The Geron-
tological Society of America during the
process of developing this legislation. This
authorization and related funding are needed
for the development of a health care work-
force specifically trained to care for older
adults and to support their family care-
givers. The modest increase in the authoriza-
tion in your bill will have an important im-
pact on training in geriatric care. Likewise,
the funds you have authorized for the GACA
program complement the GWEP, and support
faculty that will teach and lead geriatrics
programs. The bill will also assist in ensur-
ing that rural and underserved areas will
have geriatrics education programs.
NAGE is a non-profit membership organi-
zation representing GWEP sites, Centers on
Aging, and Geriatric Education Centers that
provide education and training to health pro-
fessionals in the areas of geriatrics and ger-
ontology. Our mission is to help America’s
healthcare workforce be better prepared to
render age-appropriate care to today’s older
Americans and those of tomorrow.
Thank you for your continued support for
geriatric education programs.
Sincerely,
CATHERINE CARRICO, PHD,
President NAGE/
NAGEC; Associate
Director, Wyoming
Geriatric Workforce
Enhancement Pro-
gram, Wyoming Cen-
ter on Aging; Clin-
ical Assistant Pro-
fessor, College of
Health Sciences,
University of Wyo-
ming.
NATIONAL HISPANIC
MEDICAL ASSOCIATION,
Washington, DC, July 21, 2019.
Hon. JAN SCHAKOWSKY,
Committee on Energy & Commerce, House of
Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN SCHAKOWSKY: On be-
half of the National Hispanic Medical Asso-
ciation (NHMA) Board of Directors, we
strongly support H.R. 2781 ‘‘Educating Med-
ical Professionals and Optimizing Workforce
Efficiency and Readiness for Health (EM-
POWER for Health) Act of 2019’’.
We support the amendment of Title VII of
the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize
certain programs relating to the health pro-
fessions workforce from FY 2020 through FY
2024. Critical health professional develop-
ment programs revolving around the under-
served, Hispanic communities of this coun-
try have been a staple of our organization.
The programs listed in this document are es-
sential to furthering patient population,
physician parity.
The Centers of Excellence program award
recipients, who recruit, train, and retain
underrepresented minority students and fac-
ulty at health professional schools, achieve
the ultimate goal of producing a quality
healthcare workforce whose racial and eth-
nic diversity is representative of the U.S.
populations.
Health Professionals Training for Diver-
sity has provided scholarships for disadvan-
taged students, loan repayments, and fellow-
ships regarding faculty positions. These pro-
grams have assisted students from minority
and economically disadvantaged back-
grounds to enter the health professions for
decades by focusing on student development,
retention, matriculation, and graduation.
Past health professional school, graduate
medical education enjoys funds and accredi-
tation authorized by this legislation. The
Primary Care Training and Enhancement
program accredits and funds residency and
internship programs in the fields of family
medicine, general internal medicine, and
general pediatrics, and provides a need-based
financial assistance.
The National Hispanic Medical Association
strongly supports H.R. 2781 ‘‘Educating Med-
ical Professionals and Optimizing Workforce
Efficiency and Readiness for Health (EM-
POWER for Health) Act of 2019’’. We are es-
pecially supportive since this bill reauthor-
izes the aforementioned programs and gen-
erally furthers a healthcare workforce that
represents the U.S. patient population.
Sincerely,
ELENA RIOS, MD, MSPH, FACP,
President & CEO.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I certainly urge all my colleagues to
support the bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
TITUS). The question is on the motion
offered by the gentlewoman from Illi-
nois (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill,
H.R. 2781, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
TITLE VIII NURSING WORKFORCE
REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 728) to amend title VIII of
the Public Health Service Act to ex-
tend advanced education nursing
grants to support clinical nurse spe-
cialist programs, and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 728
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Title VIII Nursing Workforce Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents of this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. General provisions.
Sec. 3. Nurse practitioners, nurse midwives,
nurse anesthetists, and other ad-
vanced education nurses.
Sec. 4. Increasing nursing workforce diversity.
Sec. 5. Strengthening capacity for basic nurse
education and practice.
Sec. 6. Student loans.
Sec. 7. National Advisory Council on Nurse
Education and Practice.
Sec. 8. Other provisions.
SEC. 2. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
(a) APPLICATION.—Section 802(c) of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 296a(c)) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘shall address relevant national
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.030 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8514 October 28, 2019
nursing needs that the project will meet’’ and
inserting ‘‘shall address relevant national nurs-
ing needs that the project will address and how
the project aligns with the national nursing
service goals referred to in section 806(a)’’.
(b) USE OF FUNDS.—Section 803 of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 296b) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c) SUPPLEMENT NOT SUPPLANT.—Funds
awarded as a grant under this title for a project
or activity shall be used to supplement, not sup-
plant, the non-Federal funds that would other-
wise be made available for such project or activ-
ity.’’.
(c) GENERALLY APPLICABLE PROVISIONS.—Sec-
tion 806 of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 296e) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), by amending paragraph
(2) to read as follows:
‘‘(2) EVALUATIONS.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish procedures to ensure the annual evalua-
tion of programs and projects operated by recipi-
ents of grants under this title. Such procedures
shall ensure that continued funding for such
programs and projects will be conditioned upon
the submission of—
‘‘(A) data demonstrating that satisfactory
progress has been made by the program or
project in meeting the performance outcome
standards (as described in section 802) of such
program or project; and
‘‘(B) a detailed description of activities con-
ducted by such program or project to meet such
performance outcome standards.’’;
(2) in subsection (e)(2), by inserting ‘‘, and
have relevant expertise and experience’’ after
‘‘who are not officers or employees of the Fed-
eral Government’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(i) ANNUAL REPORT ON NURSING WORKFORCE
PROGRAMS.—Annually, the Secretary shall sub-
mit to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and the
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives, a report containing
an assessment of the programs and activities of
the Department of Health and Human Services
related to enhancing the nursing workforce, in-
cluding the extent to which programs and ac-
tivities under this title meet identified goals and
performance measures developed for the respec-
tive programs and activities.’’.
SEC. 3. NURSE PRACTITIONERS, NURSE MID-
WIVES, NURSE ANESTHETISTS, AND
OTHER ADVANCED EDUCATION
NURSES.
Section 811 of the Public Health Service Act
(42 U.S.C. 296j) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) by striking ‘‘R.N./Master’s’’ and inserting
‘‘R.N./graduate’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘clinical nurse leaders,’’ be-
fore ‘‘or public health nurses’’;
(2) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as
subsections (g) and (h), respectively;
(3) by inserting after subsection (e) the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(f) AUTHORIZED CLINICAL NURSE SPECIALIST
PROGRAMS.—Clinical nurse specialist programs
eligible for support under this section are edu-
cation programs that—
‘‘(1) provide registered nurses with full-time
clinical nurse specialist education; and
‘‘(2) have as their objective the education of
clinical nurse specialists who will upon comple-
tion of such a program be qualified to effectively
provide care through the wellness and illness
continuum to inpatients and outpatients experi-
encing acute and chronic illness.’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(i) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry
out this section $77,585,000 for each of fiscal
years 2020 through 2024.’’.
SEC. 4. INCREASING NURSING WORKFORCE DI-
VERSITY.
Section 821 of the Public Health Service Act
(42 U.S.C. 296m) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry
out this section $18,037,000 for each of fiscal
years 2020 through 2024.’’.
SEC. 5. STRENGTHENING CAPACITY FOR BASIC
NURSE EDUCATION AND PRACTICE.
(a) NURSE EDUCATION, PRACTICE, QUALITY,
AND RETENTION GRANTS.—Section 831 of the
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 296p) is
amended—
(1) in the section heading, by striking ‘‘AND
QUALITY’’ and inserting ‘‘QUALITY, AND RETEN-
TION’’;
(2) in subsection (b), by amending paragraph
(2) to read as follows:
‘‘(2) providing care for underserved popu-
lations and high-risk groups, which may include
the elderly, individuals with HIV/AIDS, individ-
uals with mental health or substance use dis-
orders, individuals who are homeless, and vic-
tims and survivors of domestic violence;’’;
(3) in subsection (c), by amending paragraph
(1) to read as follows:
‘‘(1) GRANTS FOR CAREER LADDER PROGRAMS.—
The Secretary may award grants to and enter
into contracts with eligible entities for pro-
grams—
‘‘(A) to promote career advancement for—
‘‘(i) nursing personnel in a variety of training
settings, cross training or specialty training
among diverse population groups, and the ad-
vancement of individuals, including to become
professional registered nurses, advanced prac-
tice registered nurses, and nurses with graduate
nursing education; and
‘‘(ii) individuals, including licensed practical
nurses, licensed vocational nurses, certified
nurse assistants, and diploma degree or asso-
ciate degree nurses, to become baccalaureate-
prepared registered nurses or nurses with grad-
uate nursing education;
‘‘(B) to assist individuals in obtaining edu-
cation and training required to enter the nurs-
ing profession and advance within such profes-
sion, such as by providing career counseling
and mentoring; and
‘‘(C) to develop and implement internships,
accredited fellowships, and accredited residency
programs in collaboration with one or more ac-
credited schools of nursing to encourage men-
toring and development of specialties.’’;
(4) by striking subsection (e) (relating to pref-
erence);
(5) by redesignating subsections (f) through
(h) as subsections (e) and (g), respectively;
(6) in subsection (e), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘The Secretary shall submit to the Con-
gress before the end of each fiscal year a’’ and
inserting ‘‘As part of the report on nursing
workforce programs described in section 806(i),
the Secretary shall’’;
(7) by amending subsection (f), as redesig-
nated by paragraph (5), to read as follows:
‘‘(f) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sec-
tion:
‘‘(1) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—The term ‘eligible enti-
ty’ includes an accredited school of nursing, a
health care facility, a partnership of such a
school and facility, a federally qualified health
center, or a nurse-managed health clinic.
‘‘(2) NURSE-MANAGED HEALTH CLINIC.—The
term ‘nurse-managed health clinic’ means a
nurse-practice arrangement, managed by ad-
vanced practice nurses, that provides primary
care or wellness services to underserved or vul-
nerable populations that is associated with a
school, college, university or department of
nursing, federally qualified health center, or
independent nonprofit health or social services
agency.’’; and
(8) in subsection (g), as redesignated by para-
graph (5), by striking ‘‘such sums as may be
necessary for each of fiscal years 2010 through
2014’’ and inserting ‘‘$43,590,000 for each of fis-
cal years 2020 through 2024’’.
(b) NURSE RETENTION GRANTS.—Section 831A
of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 296p–
1) is repealed.
SEC. 6. STUDENT LOANS.
(a) LOAN REPAYMENT AND SCHOLARSHIP PRO-
GRAMS.—Section 846 of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 297n) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ‘‘he began
such practice’’ and inserting ‘‘the individual
began such practice’’;
(2) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ‘‘(for fiscal
years 2003 and 2004) and may (for fiscal years
thereafter)’’;
(3) in subsection (h), in the matter preceding
paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Not later than’’
through ‘‘regarding’’ and inserting ‘‘The an-
nual report on nursing workforce programs, as
required by section 806(i), shall include informa-
tion regarding the programs carried out under
this section, including’’; and
(4) in subsection (i)(1), by striking ‘‘such sums
as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2003
through 2007’’ and inserting ‘‘$90,620,000 for
each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024’’.
(b) NURSE FACULTY LOAN PROGRAM.—Section
846A(f) of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 297n–1(f)) is amended by striking ‘‘such
sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal
years 2010 through 2014’’ and inserting
‘‘$29,640,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through
2024’’.
SEC. 7. NATIONAL ADVISORY COUNCIL ON NURSE
EDUCATION AND PRACTICE.
Section 851 of the Public Health Service Act
(42 U.S.C. 297t) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(1)(A)(iv), by striking
‘‘and nurse anesthetists’’ and inserting ‘‘nurse
anesthetists, and clinical nurse specialists’’;
(2) in subsection (d), by amending paragraph
(3) to read as follows:
‘‘(3) not later than 2 years after the date of
enactment of the Title VIII Nursing Workforce
Reauthorization Act of 2019, and every 2 years
thereafter, prepare and submit to the Secretary,
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee
on Energy and Commerce of the House of Rep-
resentatives, a report describing the activities of
the Council, including findings and rec-
ommendations made by the Council concerning
the activities under this title.’’; and
(3) in subsection (g), by striking ‘‘under this
title’’ and inserting ‘‘for carrying out parts B,
C, and D of this title’’.
SEC. 8. OTHER PROVISIONS.
(a) PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENTS.—Part G
of title VIII of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 297w et seq.) is repealed.
(b) FUNDING.—Part I of title VIII of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 298d) is repealed.
(c) ELIMINATING LIMITATION ON ASSIGN-
MENT.—Section 846(a) of the Public Health Serv-
ice Act (42 U.S.C. 297n(a)) is amended, in the
matter following paragraph (3), by striking
‘‘After fiscal year 2007,’’ and all that follows
through the period at the end.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Illinois (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Illinois.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous materials on H.R. 728.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Oregon (Ms. BONAMICI).
Ms. BONAMICI. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.032 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8515
October 28, 2019
I rise today in support of H.R. 728,
the Title VIII Nursing Workforce Reau-
thorization Act and to highlight the
importance of title VIII programs, a
critical lifeline for America’s nursing
workforce and the patients they serve.
Demand for healthcare services pro-
vided by nurses continues to grow, so
we must expand and support these pro-
grams to maintain a highly educated
nursing workforce. Title VIII programs
support more than 61,000 students in al-
most every State, but there are still
significant nursing shortages in north-
west Oregon and across the country.
Title VIII programs increase the
nursing pipeline and also create a cul-
turally diverse workforce to make sure
that our increasingly diverse patient
population is cared for by culturally
aware providers. Title VIII programs
prepare nurses to serve the most vul-
nerable communities and regions, such
as rural areas, that are in desperate
need of providers.
Title VIII programs also provide cru-
cial support for our nursing educators,
greater diversity in the nursing work-
force, and more successful careers for
nurses who work tirelessly on the front
lines of patient care.
Our nurses are critical to the health
and well-being of our communities.
That is why I am honored to serve as a
leader on the Nursing Caucus along
with several other cosponsors of this
legislation, Representatives JOYCE,
DAVIS, and GABBARD.
I thank them and the Energy and
Commerce Committee for their leader-
ship on this bill. I look forward to our
continued bipartisan effort in advo-
cating for the title VIII Nursing Work-
force Development programs.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to join us in supporting this
legislation.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I support H.R. 728,
the Title VIII Nursing Workforce Reau-
thorization Act of 2019 which was intro-
duced by Mr. JOYCE, our Republican
lead of Ohio. This bill reauthorizes the
title VIII nursing workforce programs
for fiscal years 2020 through 2024. Title
VIII programs, in addition to the title
VII physician workforce programs,
have actually expired, but they have
continued to receive appropriations.
According to a Health Resource and
Services Administration report on
nursing workforce projections in 2017,
the future supply of and demand for
nurses will be affected by a host of fac-
tors, including population growth,
aging of the Nation’s population, over-
all economic conditions, expanded
health insurance coverage, changes in
healthcare reimbursement, geographic
location, and health workforce avail-
ability. The demands for RNs are pro-
jected to increase by nearly 800,000 be-
tween 2014 and 2030.
Texas is projected to face a shortage
of all types of nurses by 2030. Reg-
istered nurses, nurse practitioners, cer-
tified nurse anesthetists, and certified
nurse-midwives will fall short of de-
mand year after year from now until
2030. This is an issue that we are facing
across the country, and H.R. 728 can
help fix that.
While our appropriations process has
continued to fund these programs,
without authorization there remains
uncertainty regarding how much
money the program will receive each
year. These programs range from pro-
viding our advanced practice nurses
with additional educational opportuni-
ties to increasing nursing workforce di-
versity.
In the midst of a nursing shortage,
we must ensure that our healthcare
system has the capacity to educate and
retain a qualified workforce and also
allows for career advancement. This
bill includes grants for nurses of dif-
ferent levels of education to obtain fur-
ther education to advance within their
profession. Additionally, this legisla-
tion reauthorizes loan repayments,
scholarships, and grants for education,
practice, quality, and retention. These
provisions are essential in educating
and retaining a qualified nursing work-
force.
Madam Speaker, I urge support of
H.R. 728, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I rise in great support of H.R. 728, the
Nursing Workforce Reauthorization
Act introduced by Representatives
JOYCE, GABBARD, DAVIS, BONAMICI,
MATSUI, CASTOR, MCKINLEY, and
UNDERWOOD.
The title VIII nursing workforce pro-
gram ensures that we have a skilled,
competent, and diverse nursing work-
force, and the Nursing Workforce Reau-
thorization Act will go a long way in
strengthening these programs.
This bill provides grants to nursing
schools, academic health centers, and
other entities to help in training grad-
uate-level nurse practitioners and clin-
ical nurse specialists, certified nurse-
midwives and certified registered nurse
anesthetists and public health nurses.
The bill also reauthorizes the success-
ful Nursing Workforce Diversity grant
program which has been shown to re-
duce health disparities and improve
outcomes for patients.
As our population ages we are seeing
a growing demand for qualified nurs-
ing. H.R. 728 helps us prepare for the
future by training the next generation
of nurses and nurse educators.
Madam Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this bill, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
b 1815
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from
Ohio (Mr. JOYCE), who is the Repub-
lican lead on this bill.
Mr. JOYCE of Ohio. Madam Speaker,
I rise today in support of H.R. 728, the
Title VIII Nursing Workforce Reau-
thorization Act of 2019.
With 4 million registered nurses na-
tionwide, nurses are more than just the
largest healthcare workforce in the
United States. They are the backbone
of the healthcare system.
As a proud husband of a nurse and as
co-chair of the Congressional Nursing
Caucus, it is easy for me to understand
why nursing is the most trusted profes-
sion in America. I can personally at-
test to the amount of dedication nurses
put into caring for their patients each
and every day. The bottom line is that
any challenge facing our Nation’s
nurses hurts the health and well-being
of the American people.
Unfortunately, despite the impor-
tance of nurses to the well-being of pa-
tients, we are facing a nursing shortage
that will leave far too many patients
without the care that they need. The
demand for nurses varies State by
State, but it is estimated that the na-
tional need for nurses will increase by
28 percent by 2030. On top of that, it is
reported that roughly 10,000 baby
boomers turn 65 every day—10,000 every
single day.
To meet this increased demand, Con-
gress must address the issues impact-
ing nursing recruitment, education,
and retention. My bill accomplishes ex-
actly that by reauthorizing title VIII
nursing workforce development pro-
grams.
These programs are designed to ad-
dress specific needs within the nursing
workforce in America’s patient popu-
lation. Importantly, they also provide
targeted support for the institutions
that educate nurses for practice in
rural and medically underserved com-
munities.
By passing this legislation, Congress
can ensure that those interested in
pursuing a career in nursing have ac-
cess to the high-quality education and
training opportunities necessary to do
so. By passing this legislation, Con-
gress can make a direct investment in
our Nation’s health.
Before I close, I thank the American
Association of Colleges of Nursing, the
American Nurses Association, and my
fellow co-chairs of the Congressional
Nursing Caucus who have joined me in
this effort: Representative TULSI
GABBARD, Representative RODNEY
DAVIS, and Representative SUZANNE
BONAMICI.
I also thank Chairman PALLONE and
Ranking Member WALDEN, as well as
Subcommittee on Health Chair ESHOO
and Ranking Member BURGESS, for rec-
ognizing the importance of this legisla-
tion and moving it through the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
Madam Speaker, I am grateful for
the overwhelming bipartisan support
this bill has received. On behalf of the
Nation’s nurses, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support its passage.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I am prepared to close with this.
Nurses are the backbone of our
healthcare system. It looks like, in a
bipartisan way, everybody loves
nurses. They provide frontline care in a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.068 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8516 October 28, 2019
variety of settings and often work to
supervise and coordinate care for pa-
tients. We couldn’t live without them,
and so we are helping them today.
Madam Speaker, I urge the passage
of this legislation with all of my col-
leagues, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Again, this is one of those bills that
passed out of the Subcommittee on
Health last Congress, passed on the
floor of the House, and, for some rea-
son, didn’t see action over in the Sen-
ate. This year, it needs to, for all the
reasons we have heard articulated here
today.
I also am obligated to mention that
my district in Texas is home to one of
the largest and best nursing education
programs in the country at Texas
Woman’s University.
I would also be remiss if I didn’t ac-
knowledge the work done in the last
Congress by Lois Capps, who was our
colleague at the time, who is no longer
in Congress, but it was always her pas-
sion to see this bill passed.
Madam Speaker, I urge passage, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
today, I rise in support of H.R. 728, the Title
VIII Nursing Workforce Reauthorization Act of
2019.
As the first registered nurse elected to Con-
gress, I know how essential the federal nurs-
ing workforce development grant programs are
to the development of the next generation of
our nursing leaders. These Title VIII programs,
administered through the Health Resources
and Services Administration, have supported
the recruitment, retention, and distribution of
our nation’s nursing workforce for over five
decades.
Title VIII programs have supported nursing
education at all levels, from entry level prepa-
ration through graduate study. They have pro-
vided support for institutions that educate
nurses for practice in rural and medically un-
derserved communities, thus representing a
direct investment in our nation’s health.
With the support of our House and Senate
colleagues, we must continue to elevate and
strengthen our nursing workforce for the
wellbeing of our nation. I wholeheartedly urge
my colleagues to support the Title VIII Nursing
Workforce Reauthorization Act of 2019.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 728, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DRUG
DISCOUNTS AND REAL-TIME
BENEFICIARY DRUG COST ACT
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 2115) to amend title XI of
the Social Security Act to provide
greater transparency of discounts pro-
vided by drug manufacturers, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2115
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Public Dis-
closure of Drug Discounts and Real-Time
Beneficiary Drug Cost Act’’.
SEC. 2. PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DRUG DIS-
COUNTS.
Section 1150A of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1320b–23) is amended—
(1) in subsection (c), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘(other
than as permitted under subsection (e))’’
after ‘‘disclosed by the Secretary’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(e) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF CERTAIN IN-
FORMATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In order to allow the
comparison of PBMs’ ability to negotiate re-
bates, discounts, direct and indirect remu-
neration fees, administrative fees, and price
concessions and the amount of such rebates,
discounts, direct and indirect remuneration
fees, administrative fees, and price conces-
sions that are passed through to plan spon-
sors, beginning January 1, 2020, the Sec-
retary shall make available on the Internet
website of the Department of Health and
Human Services the information with re-
spect to the second preceding calendar year
provided to the Secretary on generic dis-
pensing rates (as described in paragraph (1)
of subsection (b)) and information provided
to the Secretary under paragraphs (2) and (3)
of such subsection that, as determined by
the Secretary, is with respect to each PBM.
‘‘(2) AVAILABILITY OF DATA.—In carrying
out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall ensure
the following:
‘‘(A) CONFIDENTIALITY.—The information
described in such paragraph is displayed in a
manner that prevents the disclosure of infor-
mation, with respect to an individual drug or
an individual plan, on rebates, discounts, di-
rect and indirect remuneration fees, admin-
istrative fees, and price concessions.
‘‘(B) CLASS OF DRUG.—The information de-
scribed in such paragraph is made available
by class of drug, using an existing classifica-
tion system, but only if the class contains
such number of drugs, as specified by the
Secretary (but not fewer than three drugs),
to ensure confidentiality of proprietary in-
formation or other information that is pre-
vented to be disclosed under subparagraph
(A).’’.
SEC. 3. REQUIRING PRESCRIPTION DRUG PLAN
SPONSORS TO INCLUDE REAL-TIME
BENEFIT INFORMATION AS PART OF
SUCH SPONSOR’S ELECTRONIC PRE-
SCRIPTION PROGRAM UNDER THE
MEDICARE PROGRAM.
Section 1860D–4(e)(2) of the Social Security
Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–104(e)(2)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘To
the extent’’ and inserting ‘‘Except as pro-
vided in subparagraph (F), to the extent’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(F) REAL-TIME BENEFIT INFORMATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than January 1,
2021, the program shall implement real-time
benefit tools that are capable of integrating
with a prescribing health care professional’s
electronic prescribing or electronic health
record system for the transmission of for-
mulary and benefit information in real time
to prescribing health care professionals.
With respect to a covered part D drug, such
tools shall be capable of transmitting such
information specific to an individual en-
rolled in a prescription drug plan. Such in-
formation shall include the following:
‘‘(I) A list of any clinically-appropriate al-
ternatives to such drug included in the for-
mulary of such plan.
‘‘(II) Cost-sharing information for such
drug and such alternatives, including a de-
scription of any variance in cost sharing
based on the pharmacy dispensing such drug
or such alternatives.
‘‘(III) Information relating to whether such
drug is included in the formulary of such
plan and any prior authorization or other
utilization management requirements appli-
cable to such drug and such alternatives so
included.
‘‘(ii) ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION.—The pro-
visions of subclauses (I) and (II) of clause (ii)
of subparagraph (E) shall apply to an elec-
tronic transmission described in clause (i) in
the same manner as such provisions apply
with respect to an electronic transmission
described in clause (i) of such subparagraph.
‘‘(iii) SPECIAL RULE FOR 2021.—The program
shall be deemed to be in compliance with
clause (i) for 2021 if the program complies
with the provisions of section 423.160(b)(7) of
title 42, Code of Federal Regulations (or a
successor regulation), for such year.
‘‘(iv) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this subparagraph shall be construed as to
allow a real-time benefits tool to steer an in-
dividual, without the consent of the indi-
vidual, to a particular pharmacy or phar-
macy setting over their preferred pharmacy
setting nor prohibit the designation of a pre-
ferred pharmacy under such tool.’’.
SEC. 4. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING THE
NEED TO EXPAND COMMERCIALLY
AVAILABLE DRUG PRICING COM-
PARISON PLATFORMS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) commercially available drug pricing
comparison platforms can, at no cost, help
patients find the lowest price for their medi-
cations at their local pharmacy;
(2) such platforms should be integrated, to
the maximum extent possible, in the health
care delivery ecosystem; and
(3) pharmacy benefit managers should
work to disclose generic and brand name
drug prices to such platforms to ensure
that—
(A) patients can benefit from the lowest
possible price available to them; and
(B) overall drug prices can be reduced as
more educated purchasing decisions are
made based on price transparency.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Illinois (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Illinois.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on H.R. 2115.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I yield 4 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Virginia (Ms. SPANBERGER), an
author and supporter of this bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.069 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8517
October 28, 2019
Ms. SPANBERGER. Madam Speaker,
I rise in support of my bill, H.R. 2115,
the Public Disclosure of Drug Dis-
counts Act.
First, I thank my colleagues Con-
gressman ARRINGTON and Congressman
BOYLE for their partnership on this bi-
partisan legislation. I thank Congress-
woman SLOTKIN for her cooperation
and commitment to our efforts. And I
thank Congresswoman SCHAKOWSKY for
her work here today.
Madam Speaker, if we are going to
make substantial long-term progress
on the issue of prescription drugs, we
can’t be afraid to work in a bipartisan
manner, and I thank my colleagues for
joining me in this fight.
I also thank Chairman PALLONE and
Chairman NEAL for their dedicated
work on tackling prescription drug
costs and the Committee on Energy
and Commerce and the Committee on
Ways and Means for voting to advance
our bill and making this floor vote pos-
sible.
This bipartisan bill would help ad-
dress the number one concern facing
central Virginia’s working families,
chronically ill, and seniors—the rising
cost of healthcare.
In every community in the Seventh
District of Virginia, from Chesterfield
to Culpeper, the extremely personal ef-
fects of rising prescription drug costs
are on full display. Whether at a coffee
shop, town hall, or street fair, I always
hear yet another heartbreaking story
from a mother, a father, a grandparent,
or a young adult struggling to afford
their prescription drugs. People genu-
inely feel helpless, and it is due to no
fault of their own.
In many cases, steep costs have
forced them to make nearly impossible
decisions. A costly, lifesaving medica-
tion could mean buying fewer groceries
for their family. It could mean reluc-
tantly selling their home. It could
mean saving less, or nothing at all, for
their retirement or their kids’ edu-
cation. And even for those who are
healthy, there is an overwhelming fear:
What if I get sick, or what if a loved
one gets sick, and we can’t afford the
medication?
Back in August, I held a roundtable
with patients, pharmacists, and
healthcare providers in Henrico County
to discuss this community-wide issue.
Together, we talked about the finan-
cial challenges caused by overpriced
drugs, but we also discussed the issue
of pharmacy benefit managers, PBMs.
To those in the healthcare industry,
PBMs are known as the middlemen be-
tween drugmakers, health insurers,
and pharmacies. But for many Ameri-
cans, PBMs remain a mysterious play-
er within the prescription drug mar-
ketplace.
Operating in the murky world of drug
negotiation, there are few windows
into the value of the rebates and dis-
counts PBMs receive from drug compa-
nies. Effectively, they are a black box
in the long supply chain from the phar-
maceutical company to the patient.
During our roundtable in Henrico,
one local pharmacist described how
PBMs continue to enjoy record profits
thanks to the pharmaceutical industry,
while patients and pharmacists get
stuck with unsustainable costs.
Right now, the three largest PBMs
control three-quarters of the U.S. pre-
scription drug market. There seems to
be little transparency. And where there
is zero transparency, there is rarely
room for accountability or oversight.
If we don’t cast sunlight into this
black box, patients will continue to be
left in the dark about the effect of
PBMs on the prices of specific drugs.
The Public Disclosure of Drug Dis-
counts Act would be a step toward
bringing greater transparency to this
broken system.
The principle behind my bill is sim-
ple. Let’s take the information already
provided to the Federal Government
and make it public.
PBMs are already required to declare
rebate data, discounts, and generic dis-
pensing rates to HHS, but under my
bill, this information would be posted
publicly for the general public to see.
Beyond the principle of my bill, the
goal is even simpler: lowering drug
costs for our neighbors.
By sharing this information online
with American consumers and busi-
nesses, we would give seniors, families,
and pharmacists a better sense of how
PBMs could be influencing excessive
prices. And we would start to address
one of the root causes of our prescrip-
tion drug affordability crisis.
In central Virginia and across the
country, families should not be racked
by a constant uneasiness about their fi-
nancial well-being simply due to rising
drug costs. They shouldn’t be forced to
accept silently the undisclosed results
of PBM negotiations that could be
bankrupting them.
We need to show the American people
that we want to see progress on this
vital economic issue and that we are
hearing their stories, seeing the prob-
lems that exist, and actually moving to
reform a prescription drug market-
place that too often seems to be work-
ing against the best interests of Amer-
ican patients.
Today, I call on my colleagues to
pass the Public Disclosure of Drug Dis-
counts Act because we are long overdue
for meaningful actions that can turn
the tide.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise to speak in
support of H.R. 2115, the Public Disclo-
sure of Drug Discounts and Real-Time
Beneficiary Drug Cost Act.
This bill includes three provisions
that passed through the Committee on
Energy and Commerce in July as part
of a larger transparency package, at
that time called the METRIC Act.
The first provision aims to hold phar-
macy benefit managers accountable in
the negotiation of rebates by requiring
the Secretary of the Department of
Health and Human Services to make
rebates, discounts, direct and indirect
remuneration fees, and other informa-
tion available on a public website. This
policy includes a requirement that this
information be displayed in such a way
that it maintains the confidentiality of
individual drugs and plans.
What I believe is the most important
provision is the one that requires pre-
scription drug plan sponsors to include
real-time benefits information in elec-
tronic prescribing in Medicare. As a
physician, I recognize how important it
is for doctors to have as much informa-
tion at their disposal in prescribing ap-
propriate medications for their pa-
tients.
Madam Speaker, I thank my fellow
Texans, JODEY ARRINGTON as well as
PETE OLSON, for bringing forth this pol-
icy.
In the past few years, we have begun
to see the success of the 21st Century
Cures Act actually come to life. New
treatments and new cures are coming
to the market at an exciting pace, pro-
viding great promise for America’s pa-
tients.
It is important that doctors be able
to see and compare the prices of these
medications so that they can help their
patients assess their options. Price
transparency at the point of pre-
scribing will provide physicians with
information regarding what would or
would not be covered under their pa-
tients’ insurance and would help them
discuss what would be the most afford-
able options that are available to their
patients.
While there are a lot of factors that
doctors must consider when prescribing
their patients’ medications, medica-
tion adherence is essential. If patients
cannot afford their drugs, the stage is
set for a lack of adherence to the rec-
ommended regimen.
We have all heard the stories of pa-
tients showing up at the pharmacy
counter to pick up their prescriptions,
at which point they learn it is
unaffordable. This policy would help
reduce the number of prescriptions left
at the pharmacy counter, not picked
up due to cost concerns.
The American Medical Association
testified at our drug supply hearing in
May that ‘‘access to accurate patient
coverage and cost-sharing information
at the point-of-care would streamline
the process, reduce burden for the phy-
sician and the patient, and speed deliv-
ery of the most appropriate care.’’
I agree with that statement, and I
am pleased this legislation would im-
prove access to real-time benefits data,
further informing quality and doctor-
patient decisionmaking and improving
patient access to affordable medica-
tions.
Madam Speaker, I urge Members to
support H.R. 2115, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Michigan (Ms. SLOTKIN) on this
legislation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.071 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8518 October 28, 2019
Ms. SLOTKIN. Madam Speaker, I
thank Congresswoman SCHAKOWSKY
and Congresswoman SPANBERGER.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to
speak in support of my bill, the Real-
Time Benefits Act, which has been in-
corporated into the bill before us
today.
The bill started with a very simple
request from seniors in my district.
People want to know how much a pre-
scription will cost before they pick it
up at the drugstore, and they deserve
to know that it is the best possible
price that they can get.
This bill does that very thing. It pro-
vides Medicare patients with the infor-
mation they need about the cost of the
prescription and whether there are ge-
neric alternatives, as well as the best
pharmacy for the best deal before they
even leave the doctor’s office.
Right now, here is how the system
works. A patient goes to the doctor,
gets a prescription, and walks out.
Then they take it to a local pharmacy,
fill it, and pick it up. It is right then,
at the counter, in front of everyone
else, that they actually find out the
price of their bill.
There is no advanced warning, no
comparison shopping, no offer of
generics, and no way of knowing if a
different pharmacy could have it
cheaper. By the time you get to the
pharmacy, they have you over a barrel.
This bipartisan bill would fix that.
Here is how it works. Insurers would
be required to provide information to a
common system, a real-time benefits
tool, which doctors would access
through their electronic prescribing
program. Doctors and patients could
then sit together to receive real-time
updates, right in the doctor’s office, on
the price of the drug based on the pa-
tient’s insurance plan, as well as the
price of any other cheaper drugs avail-
able.
This real-time benefits tools will also
list the price differences at each phar-
macy—Rite Aid versus CVS—to allow
physicians to make sure that the pa-
tients are getting the lowest possible
prices.
b 1830
This not only lowers out-of-pocket
costs for seniors, but it increases
much-needed price transparency into
our system.
Imagine if, every time you went to
the doctor, both you and your physi-
cian could see the differences in the
prices of drugs. This is the kind of all-
American competition we need when it
comes to our prescription drugs.
To be clear, the cost of prescription
drugs is the number one issue I get
asked about in my district. People
come up to me in the grocery store.
They grab my arm. They ask me why
their medication has increased by 200
percent in cost in the past 5 years.
Connie, a constituent of mine in
Brighton, spends $10,000 a year on
Humira for her Crohn’s disease, even
though she is on Medicare.
Joanna, who lives in my hometown of
Holly, Michigan, was hospitalized for
several days due to complications be-
cause she could not afford her inhaler.
Her complex health needs require a
number of medicines, so she literally
rations her medicines in order to keep
them manageable, and she still spends
hundreds of dollars each month.
This is wrong, and our constituents,
regardless of party, are asking us to do
something about it.
Democrats and Republicans have
both said the right things about the
cost of prescription drugs. They have
talked the talk. They now must walk
the walk.
I am incredibly proud to have
brought forth this bipartisan legisla-
tion tonight. I urge my colleagues to
join me in voting ‘‘yes’’ to promote
transparency and competition.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. CARTER), a pharmacist by
profession and a very valuable member
of the Health Subcommittee of the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding.
I rise to speak in support of H.R. 2115,
the Public Disclosure of Drug Dis-
counts Act. I am very glad to see this
bill, which was part of the METRIC Act
Representative SCHAKOWSKY and I
passed out of Energy and Commerce,
being moved through the House floor.
This is important legislation that
brings desperately needed transparency
to our drug supply chain.
So much of the debate around how we
can lower drug prices in this country
has been focused on drug manufactur-
ers. This bill highlights the need for re-
forms throughout our entire drug sup-
ply system. Specifically, this bill
shines a spotlight on the middlemen in
our drug supply chain: the pharmacy
benefit managers, or PBMs.
For context, three PBMs control al-
most 80 percent of the marketplace,
and while originally designed to pri-
marily process claims data, these com-
panies are now some of the largest cor-
porations in the country. For the year
2019, the major PBM companies had a
higher projected revenue than
Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix, and
Google combined.
Again, for this year, 2019, the major
PBM companies had a higher projected
revenue than Facebook, Amazon,
Apple, Netflix, and Google combined.
In a time where patients are facing
higher and higher drug costs, it is clear
that more transparency of these mid-
dlemen is desperately needed, at the
very least. This bill, H.R. 2115, will re-
quire PBMs to report information on
all of the rebates, fees, and discounts
they extract before a drug ever reaches
patients.
PBMs argue that it is actually better
for patients that the PBMs extract all
of these increasingly high rebates and
fees because they pass those discounts
on to the insurance plans to lower pre-
miums.
While I completely disagree with
that premise, this bill will finally
allow all of us to see for ourselves ex-
actly how much of a cut these middle-
men are taking out of the system.
Transparency is absolutely critical if
we are going to lower drug prices for
patients, and this bill is a big step in
the right direction.
I applaud Representatives
SPANBERGER, ARRINGTON, and BOYLE
for their leadership on this bill, as well
as my Energy and Commerce counter-
part, Congresswoman SCHAKOWSKY.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support H.R. 2115.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I am prepared to close now just by say-
ing the cost of prescription drugs is an
issue on the minds of all of our con-
stituents, in a bipartisan way, all
across the country, and this bill will
provide much-needed transparency
around the activity of pharmacy ben-
efit managers, or PBMs.
You heard very eloquent statements
from our colleagues on this issue. I am
going to close now and just say I hope
that all of our colleagues will vote for
this legislation.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. ARRINGTON), coauthor of
this legislation.
Mr. ARRINGTON. Madam Speaker, I
thank my friend and fellow Texan, Dr.
BURGESS, for yielding me time to
speak.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of H.R. 2115, legislation I was
proud to help lead and support, along-
side Congresswoman SPANBERGER,
which will provide greater trans-
parency to the discounts negotiated be-
tween insurance companies and drug
manufacturers through what are
known as pharmacy benefit managers,
or PBMs.
One of the reasons why drug costs
have spiraled out of control is because
discounts negotiated by PBMs are
shrouded in secrecy. Americans are left
in the dark about the rebates, and we
have no idea where the value of those
rebates go.
But we know this: We know they are
not going to our seniors. We know they
are not going to them at the point of
sale. This has created a system that is
confusing and overly complicated, par-
ticularly for our seniors.
My greatest concern is that the
value, again, of these rebates is being
passed to our seniors, who need the re-
lief desperately.
The answer to this drug affordability
crisis is not to impose more govern-
ment control, which would only further
distort the market, further confuse our
seniors, and increase costs on all Amer-
icans. Instead, we need to activate the
forces of competition and provide pa-
tients with more transparency in this
process so that they are empowered to
know exactly what their options are
and what they are paying for each time
they visit the pharmacy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.072 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8519
October 28, 2019
This legislation will help ensure that
rebates go toward reducing the cost of
drugs for our seniors as well as the cost
to the American taxpayer.
Additionally, I am thankful this leg-
islation includes the text of my bill,
the Shop Rx Act. This provision, which
I carried in committee with the sup-
port of both Republicans and Demo-
crats, requires drug plans for seniors to
offer realtime information regarding
the various options of drugs and their
associated costs.
By providing seniors with access to
the readily available and relevant in-
formation they need in order to be real
consumers, we will empower them with
the knowledge to choose the options
that best fit their needs and their
budget. Once consumers have more in-
formation, they will have more
choices, and insurers will have to actu-
ally compete for their business, which
will ultimately bring down the cost of
drugs.
Madam Speaker, I believe this legis-
lation will help transform the system
from one in which patients are often
powerless victims to one in which they
have true bargaining power and real
control over their healthcare needs. I
am proud to support it, and I encour-
age my colleagues to do the same.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Montana (Mr. GIANFORTE), a valuable
member of the Health Subcommittee.
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Far too many Montanans can’t afford
the prescription drugs they need. They
shouldn’t have to leave the pharmacy
counter empty-handed because costs
are too high. Montanans need access to
affordable medications, which is why
reducing drug prices is one of my top
priorities.
To lower costs, we need more trans-
parency in our healthcare system. We
need to shine a light onto the opaque
drug pricing process. Our common-
sense, bipartisan bill before the House
today will shine that much-needed
light.
The Payment Commission Data Act
gives Congress’ nonpartisan think
tanks MedPAC and MACPAC greater
access to drug pricing data. Armed
with this data, they can better advise
Congress about who is being a bad
actor in the drug supply chain. It will
help Congress address prescription drug
prices more effectively.
We all want to ensure the American
people can buy more affordable pre-
scription drugs. I believe the bipartisan
approach we have here should be a
working model for how to move for-
ward, not simply ramming through
partisan bills.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on this common-
sense reform to lower drug prices.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
urge passage of this bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. SCHRADER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 2115, the ‘‘Public Dis-
closure of Drug Discounts Act’’ introduced
from my friend and colleague, Ms.
SPANBERGER.
While I believe something must be done to
bring down the cost of drugs, I also know that
unless we have a better view into the process
of how a patient’s cost is calculated, we will
continue to struggle to address the problem.
That’s why I support this important piece of
legislation that requires PBMs to report on all
the price concessions and factors that con-
tribute to determining the net cost of a drug.
PBMs play an important role in our
healthcare system as the intermediary negoti-
ating drug prices in the current marketplace.
But only if we understand the actual cost of
the drug can we ensure that consumers are
getting a fair shake. The bill before you today
is comprehensive, as it requires PBMs to re-
port the amount of rebates, discounts, direct
and indirect remuneration fees, administrative
fees, and any other price concessions. The
Secretary will make this information available
publicly in a way that aggregates the informa-
tion by class of a drug to protect the negotia-
tion process but also provide insight into any
discrepancy between the negotiated drug’s net
cost and the price a patient pays for that drug.
Addressing any healthcare problem requires
a comprehensive approach. There is no one
entity that is solely responsible for the high
cost of drugs. We need transparency in our
healthcare system. This bill had bipartisan
support throughout the Committee process
and similar measures have had support in the
Senate. I am proud that we continue to work
on measures that will help address one of the
most concerning issues of our time, the exor-
bitant price of prescription drugs, and I thank
leadership for bringing this measure to the
floor today.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2115, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Motions to suspend the rules and
pass:
H.R. 2440; and
H.R. 2115.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
FULL UTILIZATION OF THE HAR-
BOR MAINTENANCE TRUST FUND
ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2440) to provide for the use of
funds in the Harbor Maintenance Trust
Fund for the purposes for which the
funds were collected and to ensure that
funds credited to the Harbor Mainte-
nance Trust Fund are used to support
navigation, and for other purposes, as
amended, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Oregon (Mr. DEFA-
ZIO) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, as amended.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 296, nays
109, not voting 26, as follows:
[Roll No. 585]
YEAS—296
Abraham
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Courtney
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (PA)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McGovern
McKinley
McNerney
Miller
Mitchell
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.074 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8520 October 28, 2019
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Palazzo
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rodgers (WA)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—109
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Crawford
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gianforte
Gooden
Granger
Graves (GA)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hudson
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
McAdams
McCarthy
McClintock
McHenry
Meadows
Meuser
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Norman
Nunes
Palmer
Perry
Ratcliffe
Reed
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Roy
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walker
Watkins
Wenstrup
Womack
Woodall
NOT VOTING—26
Beatty
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Costa
Cox (CA)
Doyle, Michael
F.
Gohmert
Gosar
Hice (GA)
Hill (CA)
Huffman
Kennedy
Lamborn
Marchant
McEachin
Meeks
Meng
Omar
Pocan
Roby
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Thompson (CA)
Timmons
Williams
Wright
b 1906
Messrs. DUNCAN, CRAWFORD,
ADERHOLT, RATCLIFFE, STIVERS,
and FLORES changed their vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Messrs.
BAIRD, WALDEN, ROSE of New York,
HAGEDORN, and ABRAHAM changed
their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DRUG
DISCOUNTS AND REAL-TIME
BENEFICIARY DRUG COST ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2115) to amend title XI of the
Social Security Act to provide greater
transparency of discounts provided by
drug manufacturers, as amended, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 403, nays 0,
not voting 28, as follows:
[Roll No. 586]
YEAS—403
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Courtney
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—28
Beatty
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Costa
Cox (CA)
Doyle, Michael
F.
Gohmert
Gosar
Griffith
Hice (GA)
Hill (CA)
Huffman
Kennedy
Lamborn
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
McEachin
Meeks
Meng
Pocan
Roby
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Thompson (CA)
Timmons
Wild
Williams
Wright
b 1916
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.042 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8521
October 28, 2019
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to amend titles XI
and XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide greater transparency for dis-
counts provided by manufacturers, to
include real-time benefit information
as part of a prescription drug plan’s
electronic prescription program under
the Medicare program, and for other
purposes.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.RES. 296, AFFIRMING THE
UNITED STATES RECORD ON THE
ARMENIAN GENOCIDE
Mr. MCGOVERN, from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–263) on the
resolution (H. Res. 655) providing for
consideration of the resolution (H. Res.
296) affirming the United States record
on the Armenian Genocide, which was
referred to the House Calendar and or-
dered to be printed.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 823, COLORADO OUTDOOR
RECREATION AND ECONOMY
ACT; PROVIDING FOR CONSIDER-
ATION OF H.R. 1373, GRAND CAN-
YON CENTENNIAL PROTECTION
ACT; PROVIDING FOR CONSIDER-
ATION OF H.R. 2181, CHACO CUL-
TURAL HERITAGE AREA PRO-
TECTION ACT OF 2019; AND PRO-
VIDING FOR PROCEEDINGS DUR-
ING THE PERIOD FROM NOVEM-
BER 1, 2019, THROUGH NOVEMBER
11, 2019
Mr. MCGOVERN, from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–264) on the
resolution (H. Res. 656) providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 823) to
provide for the designation of certain
wilderness areas, recreation manage-
ment areas, and conservation areas in
the State of Colorado, and for other
purposes; providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 1373) to protect, for cur-
rent and future generations, the water-
shed, ecosystem, and cultural heritage
of the Grand Canyon region in the
State of Arizona, and for other pur-
poses; providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 2181) to provide for the
withdrawal and protection of certain
Federal land in the State of New Mex-
ico; and providing for proceedings dur-
ing the period from November 1, 2019,
through November 11, 2019, which was
referred to the House Calendar and or-
dered to be printed.
f
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 3495
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to
remove my name as a cosponsor for
H.R. 3495.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
f
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 3495
Ms. WILSON of Florida. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
my name be removed as a cosponsor of
H.R. 3495.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Florida?
There was no objection.
f
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 3495
Mr. HARDER of California. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to
remove my name as a cosponsor for
H.R. 3495.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
f
PALLIATIVE CARE AND HOSPICE
EDUCATION AND TRAINING ACT
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 647) to amend the Public
Health Service Act to increase the
number of permanent faculty in pallia-
tive care at accredited allopathic and
osteopathic medical schools, nursing
schools, social work schools, and other
programs, including physician assist-
ant education programs, to promote
education and research in palliative
care and hospice, and to support the
development of faculty careers in aca-
demic palliative medicine, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 647
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Palliative
Care and Hospice Education and Training
Act’’.
SEC. 2. PALLIATIVE CARE AND HOSPICE EDU-
CATION AND TRAINING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Part D of title VII of the
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 294 et
seq.) is amended by inserting after section
759 the following:
‘‘SEC. 759A. PALLIATIVE CARE AND HOSPICE EDU-
CATION AND TRAINING.
‘‘(a) PALLIATIVE CARE AND HOSPICE EDU-
CATION CENTERS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall
award grants or contracts under this section
to entities described in paragraph (1), (3), or
(4) of section 799B, and section 801(2), for the
establishment or operation of Palliative
Care and Hospice Education Centers that
meet the requirements of paragraph (2).
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS.—A Palliative Care and
Hospice Education Center meets the require-
ments of this paragraph if such Center—
‘‘(A) improves the interprofessional team-
based training of health professionals in pal-
liative care, including residencies,
traineeships, or fellowships;
‘‘(B) develops and disseminates interprofes-
sional team-based curricula relating to the
palliative treatment of the complex health
problems of individuals with serious or life-
threatening illnesses;
‘‘(C) supports the training and retraining
of faculty to provide instruction in inter-
professional team-based palliative care;
‘‘(D) supports interprofessional team-based
continuing education of health professionals
who provide palliative care to patients with
serious or life-threatening illness;
‘‘(E) provides students (including residents,
trainees, and fellows) with clinical training
in interprofessional team-based palliative
care in appropriate health settings, includ-
ing hospitals, hospices, home care, long-term
care facilities, and ambulatory care centers;
‘‘(F) establishes traineeships for individ-
uals who are preparing for advanced edu-
cation nursing degrees, social work degrees,
or advanced degrees in physician assistant
studies, with a focus in interprofessional
team-based palliative care in appropriate
health settings, including hospitals, hos-
pices, home care, long-term care facilities,
and ambulatory care centers;
‘‘(G) supports collaboration between mul-
tiple specialty training programs (such as
medicine, nursing, social work, physician as-
sistant, chaplaincy, and pharmacy) and clin-
ical training sites to provide training in
interprofessional team-based palliative care;
and
‘‘(H) does not duplicate the activities of ex-
isting education centers funded under this
section or under section 753 or 865.
‘‘(3) EXPANSION OF EXISTING CENTERS.—
Nothing in this section shall be construed
to—
‘‘(A) prevent the Secretary from providing
grants to expand existing education centers,
including geriatric education centers estab-
lished under section 753 or 865, to provide for
education and training focused specifically
on palliative care, including for non-geri-
atric populations; or
‘‘(B) limit the number of education centers
that may be funded in a community.
‘‘(b) PALLIATIVE MEDICINE PHYSICIAN
TRAINING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may make
grants to, and enter into contracts with,
schools of medicine, schools of osteopathic
medicine, teaching hospitals, and graduate
medical education programs for the purpose
of providing support for projects that fund
the training of physicians (including resi-
dents, trainees, and fellows) who plan to
teach palliative medicine.
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS.—Each project for
which a grant or contract is made under this
subsection shall—
‘‘(A) be staffed by full-time teaching physi-
cians who have experience or training in
interprofessional team-based palliative med-
icine;
‘‘(B) be based in a hospice and palliative
medicine fellowship program accredited by
the Accreditation Council for Graduate Med-
ical Education;
‘‘(C) provide training in interprofessional
team-based palliative medicine through a va-
riety of service rotations, such as consulta-
tion services, acute care services, extended
care facilities, ambulatory care and com-
prehensive evaluation units, hospices, home
care, and community care programs;
‘‘(D) develop specific performance-based
measures to evaluate the competency of
trainees; and
‘‘(E) provide training in interprofessional
team-based palliative medicine through one
or both of the training options described in
paragraph (3).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.078 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8522 October 28, 2019
‘‘(3) TRAINING OPTIONS.—The training op-
tions referred to in subparagraph (E) of para-
graph (2) are as follows:
‘‘(A) 1-year retraining programs in hospice
and palliative medicine for physicians who
are faculty at schools of medicine and osteo-
pathic medicine, or others determined appro-
priate by the Secretary.
‘‘(B) 1- or 2-year training programs that
are designed to provide training in inter-
professional team-based hospice and pallia-
tive medicine for physicians who have com-
pleted graduate medical education programs
in any medical specialty leading to board eli-
gibility in hospice and palliative medicine
pursuant to the American Board of Medical
Specialties.
‘‘(4) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sub-
section, the term ‘graduate medical edu-
cation’ means a program sponsored by a
school of medicine, a school of osteopathic
medicine, a hospital, or a public or private
institution that—
‘‘(A) offers postgraduate medical training
in the specialties and subspecialties of medi-
cine; and
‘‘(B) has been accredited by the Accredita-
tion Council for Graduate Medical Education
or the American Osteopathic Association
through its Committee on Postdoctoral
Training.
‘‘(c) PALLIATIVE MEDICINE AND HOSPICE
ACADEMIC CAREER AWARDS.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.—The
Secretary shall establish a program to pro-
vide awards, to be known as the ‘Palliative
Medicine and Hospice Academic Career
Awards’, to eligible individuals to promote
the career development of such individuals
as academic hospice and palliative care phy-
sicians.
‘‘(2) ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS.—To be eligible
to receive an award under paragraph (1), an
individual shall—
‘‘(A) be board certified or board eligible in
hospice and palliative medicine; and
‘‘(B) have a junior (non-tenured) faculty
appointment at an accredited (as determined
by the Secretary) school of medicine or os-
teopathic medicine.
‘‘(3) LIMITATIONS.—No award under para-
graph (1) may be made to an eligible indi-
vidual unless the individual—
‘‘(A) has submitted to the Secretary an ap-
plication, at such time, in such manner, and
containing such information as the Sec-
retary may require, and the Secretary has
approved such application;
‘‘(B) provides, in such form and manner as
the Secretary may require, assurances that
the individual will meet the service require-
ment described in paragraph (6); and
‘‘(C) provides, in such form and manner as
the Secretary may require, assurances that
the individual has a full-time faculty ap-
pointment in a health professions institution
and documented commitment from such in-
stitution to spend a majority of the total
funded time of such individual on teaching
and developing skills in education in inter-
professional team-based palliative care.
‘‘(4) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.—An eligible
individual who receives an award under para-
graph (1) shall provide assurances to the Sec-
retary that funds provided to the eligible in-
dividual under this subsection will be used
only to supplement, not to supplant, the
amount of Federal, State, and local funds
otherwise expended by the eligible indi-
vidual.
‘‘(5) AMOUNT AND TERM.—
‘‘(A) AMOUNT.—The amount of an award
under this subsection shall be equal to the
award amount provided for under section
753(c)(5)(A) for the fiscal year involved.
‘‘(B) TERM.—The term of an award made
under this subsection shall not exceed 5
years.
‘‘(C) PAYMENT TO INSTITUTION.—The Sec-
retary shall make payments for awards
under this subsection to institutions, includ-
ing schools of medicine and osteopathic med-
icine.
‘‘(6) SERVICE REQUIREMENT.—An individual
who receives an award under this subsection
shall provide training in palliative care and
hospice, including the training of inter-
professional teams of health care profes-
sionals. The provision of such training shall
constitute a majority of the total funded ob-
ligations of such individual under the award.
‘‘(d) PALLIATIVE CARE WORKFORCE DEVEL-
OPMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall
award grants or contracts under this sub-
section to entities that operate a Palliative
Care and Hospice Education Center pursuant
to subsection (a)(1).
‘‘(2) APPLICATION.—To be eligible for an
award under paragraph (1), an entity de-
scribed in such paragraph shall submit to the
Secretary an application at such time, in
such manner, and containing such informa-
tion as the Secretary may require.
‘‘(3) USE OF FUNDS.—Amounts awarded
under a grant or contract under paragraph
(1) shall be used to carry out the fellowship
program described in paragraph (4).
‘‘(4) FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Pursuant to paragraph
(3), a Palliative Care and Hospice Education
Center that receives an award under this
subsection shall use such funds to offer
short-term intensive courses (referred to in
this subsection as a ‘fellowship’) that focus
on interprofessional team-based palliative
care that provide supplemental training for
faculty members in medical schools and
other health professions schools with pro-
grams in psychology, pharmacy, nursing, so-
cial work, physician assistant education,
chaplaincy, or other health disciplines, as
approved by the Secretary. Such a fellowship
shall be open to current faculty, and appro-
priately credentialed volunteer faculty and
practitioners, who do not have formal train-
ing in palliative care, to upgrade their
knowledge and clinical skills for the care of
individuals with serious or life-threatening
illness and to enhance their interdisciplinary
and interprofessional teaching skills.
‘‘(B) LOCATION.—A fellowship under this
paragraph shall be offered either at the Pal-
liative Care and Hospice Education Center
that is sponsoring the course, in collabora-
tion with other Palliative Care and Hospice
Education Centers, or at medical schools,
schools of nursing, schools of pharmacy,
schools of social work, schools of chaplaincy
or pastoral care education, graduate pro-
grams in psychology, physician assistant
education programs, or other health profes-
sions schools approved by the Secretary with
which the Centers are affiliated.
‘‘(C) CONTINUING EDUCATION CREDIT.—Par-
ticipation in a fellowship under this para-
graph shall be accepted with respect to com-
plying with continuing health profession
education requirements. As a condition of
such acceptance, the recipient shall subse-
quently provide a minimum of 18 hours of
voluntary instruction in palliative care con-
tent (that has been approved by a palliative
care and hospice education center) to stu-
dents or trainees in health-related edu-
cational, home, hospice, or long-term care
settings.
‘‘(5) TARGETS.—A Palliative Care and Hos-
pice Education Center that receives an
award under paragraph (1) shall meet targets
approved by the Secretary for providing
training in interprofessional team-based pal-
liative care to a certain number of faculty or
practitioners during the term of the award,
as well as other parameters established by
the Secretary.
‘‘(6) AMOUNT OF AWARD.—Each award under
paragraph (1) shall be in the amount of
$150,000. Not more than 24 Palliative Care
and Hospice Education Centers may receive
an award under such paragraph.
‘‘(7) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.—A Palliative
Care and Hospice Education Center that re-
ceives an award under paragraph (1) shall
provide assurances to the Secretary that
funds provided to the Center under the award
will be used only to supplement, not to sup-
plant, the amount of Federal, State, and
local funds otherwise expended by such Cen-
ter.
‘‘(e) PALLIATIVE CARE AND HOSPICE CAREER
INCENTIVE AWARDS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall
award grants or contracts under this sub-
section to individuals described in paragraph
(2) to foster greater interest among a variety
of health professionals in entering the field
of palliative care.
‘‘(2) ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS.—To be eligible
to receive an award under paragraph (1), an
individual shall—
‘‘(A) be an advanced practice nurse, a so-
cial worker, physician assistant, pharmacist,
chaplain, or student of psychology who is
pursuing a doctorate, masters, or other ad-
vanced degree with a focus in interprofes-
sional team-based palliative care or related
fields in an accredited health professions
school; and
‘‘(B) submit to the Secretary an applica-
tion at such time, in such manner, and con-
taining such information as the Secretary
may require.
‘‘(3) CONDITIONS OF AWARD.—As a condition
of receiving an award under paragraph (1), an
individual shall agree that, following com-
pletion of the award period, the individual
will teach or practice palliative care in
health-related educational, home, hospice, or
long-term care settings for a minimum of 5
years under guidelines established by the
Secretary.
‘‘(4) PAYMENT TO INSTITUTION.—The Sec-
retary shall make payments for awards
under paragraph (1) to institutions that in-
clude schools of medicine, osteopathic medi-
cine, nursing, social work, psychology, chap-
laincy or pastoral care education, dentistry,
and pharmacy, or other allied health dis-
cipline in an accredited health professions
school or program (such as a physician as-
sistant education program) that is approved
by the Secretary.
‘‘(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section, $15,000,000 for each of
the fiscal years 2020 through 2024.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by this section shall be effective begin-
ning on the date that is 90 days after the
date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3. HOSPICE AND PALLIATIVE NURSING.
(a) NURSE EDUCATION, PRACTICE, AND QUAL-
ITY GRANTS.—Section 831(b)(3) of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 296p(b)(3)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘hospice and palliative
nursing,’’ after ‘‘coordinated care,’’.
(b) PALLIATIVE CARE AND HOSPICE EDU-
CATION AND TRAINING PROGRAMS.—Part D of
title VIII of the Public Health Service Act
(42 U.S.C. 296p et seq.) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 832. PALLIATIVE CARE AND HOSPICE EDU-
CATION AND TRAINING.
‘‘(a) PROGRAM AUTHORIZED.—The Secretary
shall award grants to eligible entities to de-
velop and implement, in coordination with
programs under section 759A, programs and
initiatives to train and educate individuals
in providing interprofessional team-based
palliative care in health-related educational,
hospital, hospice, home, or long-term care
settings.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.057 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8523
October 28, 2019
‘‘(b) USE OF FUNDS.—An eligible entity
that receives a grant under subsection (a)
shall use funds under such grant to—
‘‘(1) provide training to individuals who
will provide palliative care in health-related
educational, hospital, home, hospice, or
long-term care settings;
‘‘(2) develop and disseminate curricula re-
lating to palliative care in health-related
educational, hospital, home, hospice, or
long-term care settings;
‘‘(3) train faculty members in palliative
care in health-related educational, hospital,
home, hospice, or long-term care settings; or
‘‘(4) provide continuing education to indi-
viduals who provide palliative care in
health-related educational, home, hospice, or
long-term care settings.
‘‘(c) APPLICATION.—An eligible entity desir-
ing a grant under subsection (a) shall submit
an application to the Secretary at such time,
in such manner, and containing such infor-
mation as the Secretary may reasonably re-
quire.
‘‘(d) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—For purposes of this
section, the term ‘eligible entity’ shall in-
clude a school of nursing, a health care facil-
ity, a program leading to certification as a
certified nurse assistant, a partnership of
such a school and facility, or a partnership
of such a program and facility.
‘‘(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of
fiscal years 2020 through 2024.’’.
SEC. 4. DISSEMINATION OF PALLIATIVE CARE IN-
FORMATION.
Part A of title IX of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 299 et seq.) is amended
by adding at the end the following new sec-
tion:
‘‘SEC. 904. DISSEMINATION OF PALLIATIVE CARE
INFORMATION.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Under the authority
under section 902(a) to disseminate informa-
tion on health care and on systems for the
delivery of such care, the Director may dis-
seminate information to inform patients,
families, and health professionals about the
benefits of palliative care throughout the
continuum of care for patients with serious
or life-threatening illness.
‘‘(b) INFORMATION DISSEMINATED.—
‘‘(1) MANDATORY INFORMATION.—If the Di-
rector elects to disseminate information
under subsection (a), such dissemination
shall include the following:
‘‘(A) PALLIATIVE CARE.—Information, re-
sources, and communication materials about
palliative care as an essential part of the
continuum of quality care for patients and
families facing serious or life-threatening ill-
ness (including cancer; heart, kidney, liver,
lung, and infectious diseases; as well as
neurodegenerative disease such as dementia,
Parkinson’s disease, or amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis).
‘‘(B) PALLIATIVE CARE SERVICES.—Specific
information regarding the services provided
to patients by professionals trained in hos-
pice and palliative care, including pain and
symptom management, support for shared
decisionmaking, care coordination, psycho-
social care, and spiritual care, explaining
that such services may be provided starting
at the point of diagnosis and alongside cura-
tive treatment and are intended to—
‘‘(i) provide patient-centered and family-
centered support throughout the continuum
of care for serious and life-threatening ill-
ness;
‘‘(ii) anticipate, prevent, and treat phys-
ical, emotional, social, and spiritual suf-
fering;
‘‘(iii) optimize quality of life; and
‘‘(iv) facilitate and support the goals and
values of patients and families.
‘‘(C) PALLIATIVE CARE PROFESSIONALS.—
Specific materials that explain the role of
professionals trained in hospice and pallia-
tive care in providing team-based care (in-
cluding pain and symptom management, sup-
port for shared decisionmaking, care coordi-
nation, psychosocial care, and spiritual care)
for patients and families throughout the con-
tinuum of care for serious or life-threatening
illness.
‘‘(D) RESEARCH.—Evidence-based research
demonstrating the benefits of patient access
to palliative care throughout the continuum
of care for serious or life-threatening illness.
‘‘(E) POPULATION-SPECIFIC MATERIALS.—Ma-
terials targeting specific populations, includ-
ing patients with serious or life-threatening
illness who are among medically underserved
populations (as defined in section 330(b)(3))
and families of such patients or health pro-
fessionals serving medically underserved
populations. Such populations shall include
pediatric patients, young adult and adoles-
cent patients, racial and ethnic minority
populations, and other priority populations
specified by the Director.
‘‘(2) REQUIRED PUBLICATION.—Information
and materials disseminated under paragraph
(1) shall be posted on the Internet websites of
relevant Federal agencies and departments,
including the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services, and the Administration on Aging.
‘‘(c) CONSULTATION.—The Director shall
consult with appropriate professional soci-
eties, hospice and palliative care stake-
holders, and relevant patient advocate orga-
nizations with respect to palliative care, psy-
chosocial care, and complex chronic illness
with respect to the following:
‘‘(1) The planning and implementation of
the dissemination of palliative care informa-
tion under this section.
‘‘(2) The development of information to be
disseminated under this section.
‘‘(3) A definition of the term ‘serious or
life-threatening illness’ for purposes of this
section.’’.
SEC. 5. CLARIFICATION.
None of the funds authorized under this
Act (or an amendment made by this Act)
may be used to provide, promote, or provide
training with regard to any item or service
for which Federal funding is unavailable
under section 3 of Public Law 105–12 (42
U.S.C. 14402).
SEC. 6. ENHANCING NIH RESEARCH IN PALLIA-
TIVE CARE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Part B of title IV of the
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 284 et
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new section:
‘‘SEC. 409K. ENHANCING RESEARCH IN PALLIA-
TIVE CARE.
‘‘The Secretary, acting through the Direc-
tor of the National Institutes of Health,
shall develop and implement a strategy to be
applied across the institutes and centers of
the National Institutes of Health to expand
and intensify national research programs in
palliative care in order to address the qual-
ity of care and quality of life for the rapidly
growing population of patients in the United
States with serious or life-threatening ill-
nesses, including cancer; heart, kidney, liver,
lung, and infectious diseases; as well as
neurodegenerative diseases such as demen-
tia, Parkinson’s disease, or amyotrophic lat-
eral sclerosis.’’.
(b) EXPANDING TRANS-NIH RESEARCH RE-
PORTING TO INCLUDE PALLIATIVE CARE RE-
SEARCH.—Section 402A(c)(2)(B) of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 282a(c)(2)(B)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘and, beginning Janu-
ary 1, 2020, for conducting or supporting re-
search with respect to palliative care’’ after
‘‘or national centers’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
STANTON). Pursuant to the rule, the
gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY) and the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. BURGESS) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Illinois.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous mate-
rials on H.R. 647.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL), the author of
this important legislation.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
colleague for yielding to me.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to sponsor
H.R. 647, the Palliative Care and Hos-
pice Education and Training Act,
which has 296 bipartisan cosponsors
and endorsements from 54 national or-
ganizations, including the American
Cancer Society and the American
Academy of Hospice and Palliative
Medicine.
The goal of palliative care is to pro-
vide patients relief from the symptoms
of a serious illness. This form of med-
ical care can accompany treatments
and even cures. Often, an interdiscipli-
nary team of healthcare providers con-
sisting of doctors, nurses, social work-
ers, and chaplains provide palliative
care. In this capacity, these profes-
sionals often help patients with med-
ical decisionmaking and care coordina-
tion.
Palliative and hospice care has been
shown to improve health outcomes for
patients, but not many people are
aware of the benefits. Furthermore,
our Nation has a shortage of qualified
palliative and hospice care profes-
sionals.
The Palliative Care and Hospice Edu-
cation and Training Act will help rem-
edy these issues. This bill will create
programs to train the next generation
of providers of palliative and hospice
care. It will also better educate pa-
tients, families, and health profes-
sionals about palliative care’s benefits,
and it encourages the National Insti-
tutes of Health to expand research in
this field.
Nearly every one of us has felt the
pain and stress of a serious illness, ei-
ther personally or standing beside a
loved one. By passing this bill, we will
take an important step forward in
bringing relief to patients suffering
from serious illnesses.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Chair-
man PALLONE and Ranking Member
WALDEN for their leadership on this
issue and Congressman REED and Con-
gressman CARTER, who coauthored this
bill with me.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter of support from 54 national or-
ganizations and 35 State organizations.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.057 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8524 October 28, 2019
MAY 6, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT ENGEL,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. FRANK PALLONE, Jr.,
Chair, Energy & Commerce Committee,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. YVETTE D. CLARKE,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. TOM REED
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. GREG WALDEN,
Ranking Member, Energy & Commerce Com-
mittee, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Hon. BUDDY CARTER,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
Re: Support for the Palliative Care and Hos-
pice Education and Training Act
(PCHETA)
DEAR REPRESENTATIVES ENGEL, REED, AND
CARTER, CHAIRMAN PALLONE, RANKING MEM-
BER WALDEN, AND VICE CHAIR CLARKE: The
undersigned organizations write to express
our support for H.R. 647, the Palliative Care
and Hospice Education and Training Act
(PCHETA). This bipartisan legislation will
make a difference in the lives of millions of
patients living with serious or life-threat-
ening illness and their caregivers.
Despite a high intensity of medical treat-
ment, many seriously ill individuals still ex-
perience troubling symptoms, unmet psycho-
logical and personal care needs, fragmented
care, poor communication with their health
care providers, and enormous strains on
their family caregivers. However, numerous
studies have shown that adding palliative
care can improve pain and symptom control,
quality of life, and patient and family satis-
faction.
Palliative care is an interdisciplinary
model of care focused on relief of the pain,
stress and other debilitating symptoms of se-
rious illness, such as cancer, cardiac disease,
respiratory disease, kidney failure, Alz-
heimer’s, AIDS, ALS, and MS. Its goal is to
relieve suffering and provide the best pos-
sible quality of life for patients and their
families. Palliative care can be offered si-
multaneously with life-prolonging and cura-
tive therapies for persons living with serious,
complex, and eventually terminal illness and
includes hospice care. By its very nature,
palliative care is patient-centered care—
translating patient goals to appropriate
treatments.
We appreciate your leadership in recog-
nizing the significant role palliative care and
hospice can play in creating lasting change
across the health care system. With
PCHETA’s focus on expanding the inter-
disciplinary palliative care workforce, pro-
moting awareness of the benefits of pallia-
tive care among patient and providers, and
improving the evidence base for this care,
you have demonstrated a strong commit-
ment to addressing key barriers to palliative
care access for the growing number of Amer-
icans with serious or life-threatening illness.
Delivery of high-quality palliative care
cannot take place without sufficient num-
bers of health care professionals with appro-
priate training and skills. Students grad-
uating from medical, nursing or health care
professional schools today have very little, if
any, training in the core precepts of pain and
symptom management, advance care plan-
ning, communication skills, and care coordi-
nation for patients with serious or life-
threatening illness. Further, there is a large
gap between the number of health care pro-
fessionals with palliative care training and
the number required to meet the needs of the
expanding population of seriously ill pa-
tients. PCHETA would go a long way to-
wards bridging this gap by establishing edu-
cation centers and career incentive awards
to improve the training of doctors, nurses,
physician assistants, social workers and
other health professionals in palliative care.
PCHETA also aims to strengthen clinical
practice and improve health care delivery for
patients living with serious or life-threat-
ening illness, as well as their families, by di-
recting funding toward palliative care re-
search. Research funding for palliative care
and pain and symptom management com-
prises less than 0.1 percent of the National
Institutes of Health annual budget. PCHETA
would direct an expansion and intensifica-
tion of research in these important areas.
At the same time, more must be done to
ensure patients and providers are aware of
the benefits of palliative care. According to
the Institute of Medicine, there is a ‘‘need
for better understanding of the role of pallia-
tive care among both the public and profes-
sionals across the continuum of care.’’
PCHETA would direct the implementation of
a national education and awareness cam-
paign so that patients, families, and health
professionals understand the essential role of
palliative care in ensuring high-quality care
for individuals facing serious or life-threat-
ening illness.
Through your leadership last Congress,
PCHETA passed the House of Representa-
tives with overwhelming bi-partisan support.
We appreciate your continued support and
dedication to this important issue. We look
forward to working with you toward quick
passage of this legislation in the 116th Con-
gress.
Sincerely,
Alzheimer’s Association, Alzheimer’s Im-
pact Movement, American Academy of Hos-
pice and Palliative Medicine, American
Academy of Physician Assistants, American
Cancer Society Cancer Action Network,
American College of Surgeons Commission
on Cancer, American Geriatrics Society,
American Heart Association Δ American
Stroke Association, American Psychological
Association, American Psychosocial Oncol-
ogy Society, American Society of Clinical
Oncology, Association of Oncology Social
Work, Association of Pediatric Hematology/
Oncology Nurses, Association of Professional
Chaplains, The California State University
Institute for Palliative Care.
Cambia Health Solutions, Cancer Support
Community, Catholic Health Association of
the United States, Center to Advance Pallia-
tive Care, Children’s National Health Sys-
tem, Coalition for Compassionate Care of
California, Colorectal Cancer Alliance,
Compassus, Courageous Parents Network,
ElevatingHOME Δ Visiting Nurses Associa-
tions of America, The Gary and Mary West
Health Institute, The George Washington In-
stitute for Spirituality and Health,
HealthCare Chaplaincy Network, Hospice
and Palliative Nurses Association, Leukemia
& Lymphoma Society.
Lung Cancer Alliance, Motion Picture &
Television Fund, National Alliance for
Caregiving, National Association for Home
Care & Hospice, National Association of So-
cial Workers, National Brain Tumor Society,
National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship,
National Coalition for Hospice and Palliative
Care, National Hospice and Palliative Care
Organization, National Palliative Care Re-
search Center, National Patient Advocate
Foundation, National POLST Paradigm, On-
cology Nursing Society, Pediatric Palliative
Care Coalition, Physician Assistants in Hos-
pice and Palliative Medicine.
Prevent Cancer Foundation, Resolution-
Care Network, Social Work Hospice & Pallia-
tive Care Network, Society of Palliative
Care Pharmacists, St. Baldrick’s Founda-
tion, Supportive Care Matters, Susan G.
Komen, Supportive Care Coalition, Trinity
Health.
STATE ASSOCIATIONS SUPPORTING PCHETA
Arizona Hospice and Palliative Care Orga-
nization, Home Care Association of Arkan-
sas, California Association for Health Serv-
ices at Home (CAHSAH), Home Care Associa-
tion of Colorado, Connecticut Association for
Health Care at Home, Home Care Associa-
tion of Florida, Georgia Association for
Home Health Agencies, Illinois HomeCare &
Hospice Council, Indiana Association for
Home Care and Hospice, Healthcare Associa-
tion of Hawaii, Kansas Home Care & Hospice
Association, Kentucky Home Care Associa-
tion.
HomeCare Association of Louisiana, Home
Care & Hospice Alliance of Maine, Home
Care Alliance of Massachusetts, Michigan
HomeCare and Hospice Association, Min-
nesota HomeCare Association, Nebraska
Home Care Association, Home Care, Hospice
and Palliative Care Alliance of New Hamp-
shire, Home Care Association of New York
State (HCA), New York State Association of
Healthcare Providers, Association for Home
& Hospice Care of North Carolina,
LeadingAge Ohio, Ohio Council for Home
Care & Hospice.
Oklahoma Association for Home Care &
Hospice, Oregon Association for Home Care,
Pennsylvania HomeCare Association, Rhode
Island Partnership for Home Care, South
Carolina Home Care and Hospice Associa-
tion, Tennessee Association for Home Care,
Texas Association for Home Care & Hospice,
VNAs of Vermont, Virginia Association for
Home Care & Hospice, Home Care Associa-
tion of Washington, West Virginia Council of
Home Care Agencies.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I urge my
colleagues to support this important
legislation.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
647, the Palliative Care and Hospice
Education and Training Act, by Rep-
resentatives ENGEL and TOM REED and
cosponsored by many Members of the
House. This helps build our palliative
and hospice care workforce by estab-
lishing and supporting palliative care
and hospice education centers through
Federal grants, while enhancing re-
search in palliative care at the Na-
tional Institutes of Health.
1.5 million Medicare beneficiaries
were enrolled in hospice care for some
time during 2017. With the American
population aging, we need to be sure
that our workforce is prepared to han-
dle the influx of patients transitioning
into palliative and hospice care.
The bill’s sponsors and advocates
have worked hard for the past few
years to get this legislation to the
President’s desk. As the chairman of
the Energy and Commerce Health Sub-
committee last year, I made it a pri-
ority to move this bill.
I also think that this bill com-
plements the House of Representatives’
work on the opioid crisis. It is appro-
priate that we are passing this bill now
as we come to the 1-year anniversary of
passage of the SUPPORT Act.
The bill before us today could address
the issue from a different angle. With
the growing scrutiny on doctors pre-
scribing opioids in the midst of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.067 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8525
October 28, 2019
opioid crisis, we must remember that
there are patients with legitimate
chronic pain. While the use of opioids
can lead to substance use disorder,
these patients still need access to their
pain medications, particularly if they
have been successfully maintained and
managed on opioids in close consulta-
tion with their doctors.
This bill will ensure that we have a
palliative and hospice care workforce
that is adequately trained to manage
patients with serious illness, which fre-
quently includes some aspect of chron-
ic pain or the need for pain relief.
I am disappointed that we did not in-
clude a provision that stakeholders be-
lieve is necessary in order for this bill
to become law. Senate language in-
cluded this small but necessary change,
and I expect that this issue will be re-
solved prior to the bill’s arrival at the
President’s desk.
Mr. Speaker, with a commitment to
including this legislative language, I
urge Members to support H.R. 647, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
rise in support of H.R. 647, the Pallia-
tive Care and Hospice Education and
Training Act.
This bill, introduced by Representa-
tives ENGEL, REED, CLARKE, and CAR-
TER, would establish palliative care
and hospice education centers to im-
prove training of interdisciplinary pro-
fessionals and faculty members in pal-
liative care.
The bill would promote career devel-
opment of physicians who practice hos-
pice and palliative medicine. It also
helps train the next generation of prac-
titioners by authorizing funds to train
and retain nurses, social workers, phar-
macists, and others who are pursuing
advanced degrees in palliative care and
related fields.
H.R. 647 will help patients facing se-
rious conditions at the end of their
lives and improve hospice care avail-
ability and treatment.
I just want to say this bill is personal
to me. My father, who lived with me at
the end of his life, we were the bene-
ficiaries of hospice, and it made all the
difference in the final days of his life.
This bill has the support of 294 bipar-
tisan cosponsors, as well as 89 different
organizations. I would certainly urge
all of my colleagues to endorse, sup-
port, and vote for this important piece
of legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1930
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I am
pleased to yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. REED), the
co-author of the bill.
Mr. REED. Mr. Speaker, first, I
thank my colleagues, Mr. ENGEL and
the members of the Energy and Com-
merce Committee, for their leadership
on this bill, as well as, in particular,
my colleague, Mr. CARTER, for helping
push this bill through, and Dr. BURGESS
for his assistance in leading the floor
debate.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of the bill before us, because as we all
know, when loved ones become deathly
ill, we are often left feeling helpless,
wanting to step in and somehow ease
the burden, but not sure how.
When my own mother became sick,
there was nothing I wouldn’t have
done, Mr. Speaker, to cure her. The
woman who taught me how to live,
taught me how to die. She taught me
that what truly mattered to her in
those times at the end of her life was
the comfort of her home, the comfort
of her family, and that quality time
spent with her loved ones and her
friends. Surrounded by a wonderful
team of family, friends, but, in par-
ticular, hospice care providers, we
watched as her wishes were met.
Physicians, nurses, social workers,
and aides made sure her symptoms
were managed and that she was phys-
ically comfortable. But just as impor-
tant, if not more so, were the hospice
volunteers who stepped in to give mom
companionship, normalcy at the end of
her illness, and a much-needed break
by the loved ones who were caring for
her, such as myself and my brothers
and sisters.
The experience changed my perspec-
tive on death and dying. Even now, I
am enormously thankful to the hospice
staff and volunteers who stepped in to
give my mom, and countless others in
the community and folks across the
country, quality of life when their days
and her days were limited.
We must ensure that there is a prop-
erly trained workforce to care for those
closest to us as they increase in age
and become chronically and terminally
ill. Estimates show that there will be
no more than 1 percent growth in the
palliative care and hospice physician
workforce in the next 20 years, while
the number of people eligible for pallia-
tive care will increase by over 20 per-
cent, Mr. Speaker.
Without a boost for palliative care
education and training, there will only
be one palliative physician for every
26,000 seriously ill patients by 2030.
This bill promotes a strong American
workforce when it comes to our pallia-
tive and hospice volunteers and care-
givers and advanced training for those
healthcare providers providing those
services amongst us.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues,
and I urge all of my colleagues to sup-
port this legislation and vote ‘‘yes’’
this evening.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
think what you heard from Mr. REED
and myself, and those people who have
experienced the use of hospice care,
what a great and wonderful blessing it
can be to our families.
Mr. Speaker, I support the legisla-
tion, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I am
pleased to yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. CARTER), a
valuable member of the Health Sub-
committee of the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 647, the Palliative Care and
Hospice Education and Training Act. I
am proud to be a co-lead on this much-
needed piece of legislation.
In my years as a pharmacist working
in long-term care, I saw how patients
with all types of illnesses face the chal-
lenges of end-of-life care. Whether you
are talking about patients with cancer,
Alzheimer’s, or some other ailment,
critical to our healthcare system is
valuing a patient’s quality of life. That
is why palliative and hospice care are
an important piece of our healthcare
system.
As our population ages, the need for
quality, well-trained hospice and pal-
liative providers is only growing. The
George Washington University Health
Workforce Institute projects the num-
ber of patients who could benefit from
palliative care could increase by 20 per-
cent over the next 20 years. By estab-
lishing palliative care and hospice edu-
cation centers to train and educate
new providers, this bill is a critical
step in meeting the needs of future pa-
tients.
Additionally, this bill enhances the
NIH’s research into palliative care, im-
proving our capability to care for pa-
tients in even more effective ways.
Finally, PCHETA also establishes a
nationwide campaign to better inform
patients, their families, and their
healthcare providers about palliative
care services. This is critical to ensur-
ing patients have a clear picture of all
of their options so they and their fami-
lies can make informed decisions of the
care that they want.
This bill is an important investment
towards a patient-centered healthcare
system that values and improves a pa-
tient’s quality of life.
I applaud Representatives ENGEL,
REED, CLARKE, PALLONE, and WALDEN
for their leadership on this bill, and I
urge my fellow Members to support
H.R. 647.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support of the
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
think you could hear from the factual
and the heartfelt testimony you have
heard about this bill that will make
hospice and palliative care more avail-
able that we all here urge passage of
this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 647, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.082 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8526 October 28, 2019
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PAYMENT COMMISSION DATA ACT
OF 2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1781) to amend titles XVIII
and XIX of the Social Security Act to
provide the Medicare Payment Advi-
sory Commission and the Medicaid and
CHIP Payment and Access Commission
with access to certain drug payment
information, including certain rebate
information, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1781
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Payment Com-
mission Data Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PROVIDING THE MEDICARE PAYMENT AD-
VISORY COMMISSION AND MEDICAID
AND CHIP PAYMENT AND ACCESS
COMMISSION WITH ACCESS TO CER-
TAIN DRUG PAYMENT INFORMATION,
INCLUDING CERTAIN REBATE IN-
FORMATION.
(a) ACCESS TO CERTAIN PART D PAYMENT
DATA.—Section 1860D–15(f) of the Social Secu-
rity Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w–115(f)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by inserting at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(C) by the Executive Director of the Medi-
care Payment Advisory Commission for purposes
of monitoring, making recommendations, and
analysis of the program under this title and by
the Executive Director of the Medicaid and
CHIP Payment and Access Commission for pur-
poses of monitoring, making recommendations,
and analysis of the Medicaid program estab-
lished under title XIX and the Children’s
Health Insurance Program under title XXI.’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(3) ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON DISCLOSURE
OF INFORMATION.—The Executive Directors de-
scribed in paragraph (2)(C) shall not disclose
any of the following information disclosed to
such Executive Directors or obtained by such
Executive Directors pursuant to such para-
graph, with respect to a prescription drug plan
offered by a PDP sponsor or an MA–PD plan of-
fered by an MA organization:
‘‘(A) The specific amounts or the identity of
the source of any rebates, discounts, price con-
cessions, or other forms of direct or indirect re-
muneration under such prescription drug plan
or such MA–PD plan.
‘‘(B) Information submitted with the bid sub-
mitted under section 1860D–11(b) by such PDP
sponsor or under section 1854(a) by such MA or-
ganization.
‘‘(C) In the case of such information from pre-
scription drug event records, in a form that
would not be permitted under section 423.505(m)
of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations, or any
successor regulation, if made by the Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services.’’.
(b) ACCESS TO CERTAIN REBATE AND PAYMENT
DATA UNDER MEDICARE AND MEDICAID.—Sec-
tion 1927(b)(3)(D) of the Social Security Act (42
U.S.C. 1396r–8(b)(3)(D)) is amended—
(1) in the matter before clause (i), by striking
‘‘subsection (a)(6)(A)(ii)’’ and inserting ‘‘sub-
section (a)(6)(A)’’;
(2) in clause (iv), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end;
(3) in clause (v), by striking the period at the
end and inserting ‘‘, and’’;
(4) by inserting after clause (v) the following
new clause:
‘‘(vi) to permit the Executive Director of the
Medicare Payment Advisory Commission and
the Executive Director of the Medicaid and
CHIP Payment and Access Commission to re-
view the information provided.’’;
(5) in the matter at the end, by striking
‘‘1860D–4(c)(2)(E)’’ and inserting ‘‘1860D–
4(c)(2)(G)’’; and
(6) by adding at the end the following new
sentence: ‘‘Any information disclosed to the Ex-
ecutive Director of the Medicare Payment Advi-
sory Commission or the Executive Director of the
Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Com-
mission pursuant to this subparagraph shall not
be disclosed by either such Executive Director in
a form which discloses the identity of a specific
manufacturer or wholesaler or prices charged
for drugs by such manufacturer or wholesaler.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Illinois (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Illinois.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on H.R. 1781.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1781, the Payment Commission Data
Act of 2019.
This bill will provide the Medicare
Payment Advisory Commission, other-
wise known as MedPAC, and the Med-
icaid and CHIP Payment and Access
Commission, MACPAC, with access to
drug pricing and rebate data under
Medicare parts B and D, as well as
under Medicaid.
MedPAC and MACPAC are inde-
pendent, nonpartisan commissions that
advise Congress on issues affecting the
Medicare and Medicaid programs. Cur-
rently, MedPAC and MACPAC lack ac-
cess to this drug pricing data and are
limited in their ability to provide in-
formation to Congress on the sky-
rocketing costs of prescription drugs.
H.R. 1781 is a simple but critical fix
to ensure that the commissions have
access to this data in order to analyze
and report to Congress on these urgent
issues.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1781, the Payment Commission Data
Act of 2019, which was introduced by
my colleague, Representative CARTER
of Georgia. This bill provides the Medi-
care Payment Advisory Commission,
colloquially known as MedPAC, and
the Medicaid and CHIP Payment and
Access Commission, affectionately
known as MACPAC, with access to cer-
tain drug payment information.
MedPAC is an independent congres-
sional agency that serves to advise
Congress on issues affecting the Medi-
care program. And MACPAC is a non-
partisan legislative branch agency that
provides policy and data analysis and
makes recommendations to Congress
on issues affecting Medicaid and the
State Children’s Health Insurance Pro-
gram.
The issue was brought to our atten-
tion that despite getting similar data,
such as plan bid data, we were sur-
prised to learn that while this data
could be shared by the Center for Medi-
care and Medicaid Services with the
Government Accountability Office and
the Congressional Budget Office, it
could not be shared with MedPAC or
MACPAC, leading us to this effort to
correct this in a bipartisan way
through H.R. 1781.
By providing these entities with drug
payment and drug rebate information,
MedPAC and MACPAC will be better
able to analyze the drug cost data in
the Medicare and Medicaid programs.
Therefore, these commissions will be
able to make better recommendations
to Congress on how to address drug
pricing based on accurate and factual
data.
In a letter from MedPAC to Chair-
man PALLONE, Chairwoman ESHOO, Re-
publican Leader WALDEN, and myself in
March, MedPAC said that ‘‘a statutory
change giving us access to these data
would enhance our capabilities for as-
sisting the Congress on issues relating
to prescription drug costs.’’ The letter
further outlines a number of ways that
this data would help MedPAC support
Congress and serve the commission’s
intended purpose.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
their letter.
MEDICARE PAYMENT ADVISORY
COMMISSION,
Washington, DC, March 26, 2019.
Re: Drug pricing and rebate data
Hon. FRANK PALLONE, Jr.,
Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
Hon. ANNA G. ESHOO,
Chairman, Subcommittee on Health, Committee
on Energy and Commerce,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
Hon. GREG WALDEN,
Ranking Member, Committee on Energy and
Commerce,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
Hon. MICHAEL C. BURGESS, M.D.,
Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Health,
Committee on Energy and Commerce,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMEN AND RANKING MEMBERS:
The Medicare Payment Advisory Commis-
sion (MedPAC) is an independent, legislative
branch agency established by the Balanced
Budget Act of 1997 (P.L. 105–33) to provide ex-
pert policy and technical advice to the Con-
gress on issues affecting the Medicare pro-
gram. Medicare spending has grown substan-
tially over the last decade, particularly for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:19 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.084 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8527
October 28, 2019
prescription drugs, placing an increasing fi-
nancial burden on the taxpayers and bene-
ficiaries who finance it. Congress plays a
vital role in overseeing Medicare and solving
these fiscal challenges so that the program
remains secure for current and future bene-
ficiaries. MedPAC serves as an important
source of information and advice to the Con-
gress as it exercises that oversight. To en-
able MedPAC to best advise the Congress on
how to address the problems stemming from
the high and rising costs of prescription
drugs, I am writing to request a narrow
change in law that would grant MedPAC
staff access to important drug pricing and
rebate data that other congressional agen-
cies are already able to use. The change in
statute is necessary because MedPAC is un-
able to access the data under existing statu-
tory authority.
MedPAC uses a wide variety of data in
order to support the Congress’ oversight of
Medicare, and the Commission has a strong
track record of protecting different types of
proprietary and confidential information.
For example, MedPAC uses and keeps secure
the bids that private insurance plans submit
under Medicare Parts C and D, data that
Medicare Advantage plans submit on encoun-
ters between beneficiaries and their health
care providers, and data on beneficiaries’ use
of prescription drugs.
To ensure that the Congress has com-
prehensive and up-to-date information,
MedPAC strives to use all available data per-
tinent to our analyses. The Commission uses
these data to provide information to the
Congress on spending by Medicare and its
beneficiaries and to help the Congress de-
velop policies to improve the value of tax-
payer dollars used to finance the program.
MedPAC delivers this information in man-
dated reports, congressional testimony, and
frequent briefings to congressional staff.
The large growth in drug spending has
been a key contributor to the financial
strain on Medicare and its beneficiaries.
Today, Medicare spends more than $100 bil-
lion annually on prescription drugs under
Parts B and D, and beneficiaries are exposed
to more than $20 billion in cost sharing li-
ability. Of particular concern is the growing
number of beneficiaries who are exposed to
very large cost sharing amounts when they
take extremely high-priced drugs.
Despite broad data access under its author-
izing statute, MedPAC is unable to access
important drug pricing and rebate informa-
tion under Medicare Parts B and D, and
under Medicaid, because of how specific
places of the Social Security Act are con-
structed (for example, MedPAC is not spe-
cifically named in Section 1927(b)(3)(D) of the
Social Security Act as one of the entities
with access to certain data detailing how
much the Medicare program and its bene-
ficiaries pay for prescription drugs). Because
we lack these important data, we have been
limited in the analysis and information we
can provide to the Congress as it grapples
with how to bring down the prices of drugs
for beneficiaries and taxpayers. A statutory
change giving us access to these data would
enhance our capabilities for assisting the
Congress on issues related to prescription
drug costs.
With these data, MedPAC staff could:
Assist Congress in understanding the true
costs (net of rebates) of prescription drugs to
beneficiaries and taxpayers under the Medi-
care program.
Evaluate different policy options that aim
to bring down the prices of drugs and the
cost sharing that beneficiaries face for their
medicines at the point of sale.
Provide insight into how Part D plans
manage the growth in drug prices.
Analyze the effects of market entry and
competition on drug prices.
MedPAC looks forward to continuing to
support the Congress in developing ap-
proaches to payment that ensure beneficiary
access to important therapies, while reduc-
ing costs for the Medicare program and its
beneficiaries. I very much appreciate your
consideration of this request for this statu-
tory change, and I also appreciate the sup-
port that the Congress has long given to the
Commission.
Sincerely,
FRANCIS J. CROSSON, M.D.,
Chairman.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, this bill
continues the work of the Energy and
Commerce Committee last Congress
where we marked up a discussion draft
of this very bill at the Health Sub-
committee, which I chaired. Drug pric-
ing remains an issue for patients in the
United States and this bill will allow
the House to act on factual analysis
and recommendations to help lower
drug prices for Americans.
Mr. Speaker, I urge fellow Members
to support H.R. 1781, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I am
pleased to yield 5 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. CARTER), the
principal author of this bill and a valu-
able member of the Health Sub-
committee of the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak in sup-
port of my bill, H.R. 1781, the Payment
Commission Data Act.
Last year, the Medicare Payment Ad-
visory Commission, MedPAC, and the
Medicaid and CHIP Payment Advisory
Commission, MACPAC, who serve as
nonpartisan advisory panels to Con-
gress, came to us with a problem: They
did not have the data needed to fully
study prescription drug rebates.
This bill ensures MedPAC and
MACPAC have access to the data they
need to make informed recommenda-
tions to Congress. This increase in
transparency is extremely helpful in
allowing MedPAC and MACPAC to ana-
lyze how competition in our drug mar-
ket is currently working and how part
D plans are managing the growth in
drug prices. They will be able to turn
that new knowledge into improved pol-
icy recommendations on how we, as
Congress, can bring down the price of
drugs for patients.
Simply put, this bill is just good gov-
ernance.
Importantly, I think this bill, as well
as the bill we just spoke about, H.R.
2115, are shining examples of what is
possible when Republicans and Demo-
crats are working together to lower the
cost of drugs for patients.
In the Energy and Commerce Com-
mittee, we have worked all year to ad-
vance a number of good, bipartisan
drug policies that could make a dif-
ference for patients.
b 1945
Looking across the Capitol, there are
dozens more bipartisan reforms that I
think could get robust support here in
the House.
The issue of prescription drug costs
is simply too important to be sac-
rificed in the name of electoral poli-
tics. Today is proof that we can, in
fact, pass bipartisan drug pricing re-
forms.
So I call on my colleagues on the
other sides of the aisle: Let’s build on
today and continue advancing the bi-
partisan policies we know can become
law and actually make a difference for
patients in the country.
I want to thank my friend and
colead, Representative TOM
O’HALLERAN, as well as Representa-
tives RICE, PANETTA, GIANFORTE, and
WELCH for their leadership on this bill.
I urge my fellow Members to support
transparency in our drug supply chain
and to support H.R. 1781.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I urge
support of the underlying bill, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to point
out that this evening, early evening
and now, we have passed a total of five
pieces of legislation, a couple of which
were also out of the Ways and Means
Committee. I think it is a tremendous
success and a bipartisan success.
So I want to thank Chairman FRANK
PALLONE and the chair of the Health
Subcommittee, ANNA ESHOO; Ranking
Member WALDEN and ranking member
of the Health Subcommittee, Mr. BUR-
GESS, for their hard work.
But I also do want to just take a mo-
ment to thank the staff on both sides
of the aisle. On the Democratic staff we
have: Stephen Holland, Jacquelyn
Bolen, Kimberlee Trzeciak, Una Lee,
Tiffany Guarascio, and Waverly Gor-
don.
These bills will strengthen our
healthcare workforce and increase
transparency in prescription drug
prices. They are all critical. I am very
proud that we were able to work in a
bipartisan way to, hopefully, right
now, have them pass.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1781, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
HONORING ANITA CLARK
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Anita Clark, the 2019
Reverend Fred Handy In-Service Award
winner.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.066 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8528 October 28, 2019
Ms. Clark was honored on October 25
by the Montclair, New Jersey, branch
of the NAACP. Few honorees have been
more dedicated to serving the public
good.
Ms. Clark has spent her entire life
helping the underserved and the most
vulnerable residents of Essex County.
She started in child development at the
Newark Day Care Center. She has
worked for social services and served as
the director of a needs-based youth
summer camp.
During her 30 years in the Essex
County judicial system, she helped sin-
gle mothers get child support and
worked to keep juveniles from becom-
ing criminals.
She is a respected and beloved resi-
dent of my district, as well as a great
friend and family member and a loved
one, and this honor is well-deserved.
We are very proud of the work that
Ms. Anita Clark has done for her com-
munity throughout her time in Essex
County.
f
RECOGNIZING HANCOCK DAY
SCHOOL ON WINNING THE BLUE
RIBBON SCHOOL AWARD
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Hancock
Day School for being recognized by the
Department of Education as a Blue
Ribbon School for 2019. This pres-
tigious award recognized around 350
schools across the country for their
commitment to academic excellence
and closing the achievement gap
among diverse groups of students.
To commemorate this award, Han-
cock Day School will receive a flag
that is a symbol of excellence in teach-
ing and learning. Recognized through-
out the Savannah community as a stal-
wart of quality education, I am proud
to see Hancock receive the national
recognition it deserves.
The school was founded in 1953 and
serves pre-K through eighth grade stu-
dents. Using the ‘‘Hancock Way,’’
teachers are given autonomy to teach
free of busywork and red tape while
they push their students to succeed and
refuse to water down any part of the
curriculum.
The school’s founder once said that
students need to ‘‘grow a little new
wood each day,’’ and they are certainly
succeeding.
To teachers, students, and staff alike
at Hancock Day School: Congratula-
tions on your award, and keep up the
good work.
f
SURFSIDE-SUNSET BEACH
NOURISHMENT PROJECT
(Mr. ROUDA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to highlight the importance of
the Surfside-Sunset Beach Nourish-
ment Project to the residents of Or-
ange County, California.
Due to flood control measures and
other shore protection and harbor
works made by the Federal Govern-
ment, the 17-mile-long shoreline be-
tween Anaheim Bay and Newport Bay
no longer receives a natural supply of
sand.
As a result, Congress authorized the
Surfside-Sunset project in 1962 to pro-
vide for artificial beach nourishment
to stabilize affected shoreline. Stage 13
of this project will combat continued
coastline erosion and protect coastal
property.
Unfortunately, the Federal Govern-
ment has neglected the Surfside-Sunset
project in recent years, which has pre-
vented stage 13 from moving forward.
This project has not been funded by the
Federal Government for 11 years. Let
me repeat—11 years.
As the Surfside-Sunset project is one
of many more Army Corps projects for
the people of Orange County, I will
continue to advocate for its
prioritization by the Army Corps and
Congress.
f
RECOGNIZING THE IMPORTANCE
OF THE FOREST PRODUCTS IN-
DUSTRY
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, last week, we celebrated
Timber Innovation Day and National
Forest Products Week.
The forest products industry plays an
important role in many communities
around the Nation, including Pennsyl-
vania, which is blessed with some of
the finest hardwoods in the world. In
2018, U.S. hardwood exports were val-
ued at $135 billion and employed rough-
ly 700,000 people, nationwide.
In addition to its significant eco-
nomic footprint, the industry also pro-
vides numerous environmental benefits
because managed forests support
proactive stewardship.
Unfortunately, times have been dif-
ficult for many timber producers in re-
cent years. While the industry con-
tinues to diversify and trade negotia-
tions progress, identifying new mar-
kets for American forest products re-
mains essential.
The Timber Renovation Act, which
was included in the 2018 farm bill, is
one initiative I have been proud to sup-
port that does just that. It encourages
new markets by supporting research
for wood products in construction.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank
our producers for the work that they
do.
f
RECOGNIZING HABITAT FOR HU-
MANITY IN SALEM COUNTY, NEW
JERSEY
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, I am
here today to draw attention to the
Habitat for Humanity organization of
Salem County in south Jersey.
Habitat for Humanity in Salem
County, south Jersey, has been active
since its creation in 1982. As one of the
oldest branches, they have built over 40
homes, with many more in progress.
In addition, Habitat for Humanity in
Salem County has a branch of ReStore,
which promotes sustainability in home
improvement by selling new and gently
used materials and furniture.
I want to acknowledge their dedica-
tion to our community and to the wel-
fare of those around them. The Habitat
for Humanity nonprofit organization
has made great strides in our district
by building and renovating homes so
that more citizens can have access to
affordable housing.
We are all proud of them in south
Jersey, proud of what they have done.
They are truly stars and truly have
made a difference in individuals’ lives.
May God bless them.
f
CELEBRATING OXI DAY
(Mr. BILIRAKIS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in recognition and celebration of
Oxi Day.
Seventy-nine years ago today, the
Greek Prime Minister, Ioannis
Metaxas, replied, ‘‘oxi,’’ or ‘‘no,’’ to the
fascist forces looking to enter Greece
initially in their quest for total con-
quest of the continent. With this his-
toric response, Greece rejected submis-
sion to the Axis Powers, proving it
would not go easy.
Though the invasion of the Greek
homeland ultimately happened, the
fascist forces could not contend with
the ferocity of the Greek resistance.
The delayed invasion marked the first
Axis setback in the entire war and ac-
tually precipitated a fatal delay in the
German invasion of Russia, serving as
the turning point for Allied Powers
during World War II.
Mr. Speaker, I celebrate the bravery
and resistance of Greek warriors,
which serves as an example for all free-
dom-loving people.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF JOHN
CONYERS
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
rise to join my colleagues in the Con-
gressional Black Caucus and the many
Members of the United States Congress
in honoring John Conyers.
I look forward, over the next couple
of weeks, to paying tribute to him on
this floor, for he is deserving of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.088 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8529
October 28, 2019
honor and recognition of the service of
53 years in the United States Congress.
John Conyers, throughout news-
papers across America, is called a civil
rights icon, a man who won reelection
time after time with 80 percent of the
vote.
I offer my deepest sympathy to his
beautiful wife, Monica, and his sons,
John and Carl, but most of all, I say to
America: Those who are voiceless,
John Conyers was there; but those who
were silenced, who tried to be heard,
John Conyers was there.
In every important piece of legisla-
tion for the last half century, John
Conyers was there: voting rights, fair
housing, the Clean Air Act, and the
Clean Water Act.
Yes, he is an icon, but he is a person
of this Nation. An honored servant and
former military, he is to be honored,
and I look forward to saluting him in
days to come.
May he rest in peace.
f
VETERAN SUICIDE CRISIS
(Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, as we approach Veterans Day,
I rise to bring awareness again to the
alarming rate of veteran suicide.
This country owes all of our veterans
and armed services personnel a limit-
less debt of gratitude for their sac-
rifices, so many that they made on our
behalf. Our country simply wouldn’t be
the Nation it is today, of course, were
it not for the many ways in which they
have valiantly served.
Very sadly, veteran suicide remains
an urgent crisis that devastates too
many families across our Nation every
single day. The statistics are stag-
gering. We know now that we lose up to
6,000 veterans to this unspeakable trag-
edy every year.
For far too long, our country’s brave
men and women who fought abroad for
our freedoms fall victim to suicide
when they return home, and, of course,
they leave families without fathers,
mothers, brothers and sisters, sons and
daughters.
There are few things more heart-
breaking than to hear of another brave
soldier taking their own life, and we
naturally ask the questions: How could
this one have happened? Is there more
that we could have done to intervene?
I just want to say this. Here in Con-
gress, we have a moral obligation to
ensure that our veterans are given top
priority and the resources and quality
healthcare they need and truly deserve.
We will continue to work on that pri-
ority. We will continue to advocate for
all of those who served, and we will
continue to draw attention to this ter-
rible crisis in America.
May God bless and watch over all of
our troops and all those who have
served the call of freedom.
f
b 2000
INFRASTRUCTURE FUNDING
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, today the
House approved H.R. 2440, the Full Uti-
lization of the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund Act of 2019. Nearly every
segment of our Nation’s infrastructure
is in disrepair due to chronic under-
funding, including our Nation’s water
infrastructure, a true lifeblood of our
economy.
This year, as he did last year, Presi-
dent Trump proposed drastic cuts to
the Army Corps of Engineers’ budget.
Unbelievable. But our Appropriations
Committee rejected his proposals and
those cuts. Today I stand with my col-
leagues on the Transportation and In-
frastructure Committee to call for
greater investment in our water infra-
structure.
For our part, the House passed the
FY20 Energy and Water Appropriations
bill that included $1.6 billion from the
harbor maintenance trust fund, an in-
crease of $147 million above fiscal year
2019 and $732 million above President
Trump’s paltry and unrealistic budget
request.
Big, medium, and small ports across
our country are efficient economic en-
gines that anchor jobs and progress.
They are hubs of production for com-
munities everywhere. And, yes, they
rely on leadership from this Congress
to fund their maintenance.
I congratulate Representative DEFA-
ZIO for his hard work in writing H.R.
2440 and hope we continue the momen-
tum to utilize the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund Act.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter from the Port of Cleveland.
PORT OF CLEVELAND,
October 28, 2019.
Hon. MARCY KAPTUR,
Congresswoman, 9th District of Ohio,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN KAPTUR: The Port of
Cleveland is pleased to know that an impor-
tant bill will be considered on the House
floor on Monday, October 28. The bill, H.R.
2440, the Full Utilization of the Harbor Main-
tenance Trust Fund, has bipartisan support
on the Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee and I urge your support for the
measure.
As you know, the Port of Cleveland and
others in our state depend on the Corps of
Engineers’ civil works program. Our port re-
lies on the maintenance dredging work each
and every year. Around $8 million is needed
every year to keep the Cuyahoga River Fed-
eral shipping channel, the port’s breakwater
and related infrastructure in a condition
that enables the safe navigation of ships and
mariners. Major American industry and U.S.
exports rely on maintenance dredging that
occurs twice each year.
Since 1986, when Congress created the Har-
bor Maintenance Tax (HMT) and Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF), most
cargo in American ports is charged an ad va-
lorem tax for the purpose of covering Federal
channel maintenance-related costs in U.S.
seaports. In the first years, the tax revenue
was fully spent on Federal channel mainte-
nance but soon revenues increased and a sur-
plus was allowed to accumulate in the trust
fund, even as many shipping channels in the
country were not fully maintained to their
design depths and widths. Overtime, the Har-
bor Maintenance Trust Fund balance has
been allowed to grow to over $9 billion while
Congress has continued to under-spend on
the infrastructure that is our national navi-
gation system.
In more recent years, the House and Sen-
ate became more alert to the inadequately
maintained American ports and the exist-
ence of the HMT and HMTF. Targets for
maintenance spending were approved in
WRDA 2014 and appropriations have in-
creased. We ports have appreciated that im-
provement, but the fact is that the unused
HMT revenue continues to accumulate while
maintenance dredging in many parts of the
country, including on the Great Lakes, is in-
sufficient. The graph below, prepared in 2016,
provides a snapshot of spending versus tax
revenue. (In the years since, the trend is
much the same with a projected HMTF bal-
ance (per FY 2020 budget) of as much as $10.4
billion.
20 YEARS OF THE HARBOR MAINTENANCE TRUST FUND
[Dollars in millions]
HMTF Cash Flow:
1998
Actual
1999
Actual
2000
Actual
2001
Actual
2002
Actual
2003
Actual
2004
Actual
2005
Actual
2006
Actual
2007
Actual
BOY Balance ........................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1,106 1,246 1,556 1,621 1,777 1,850 2,001 2,299 2,695 3,234
Receipts & Interest .............................................................................................................................................................................................. 651 607 767 816 730 737 946 1,102 1,337 1,427
Outlays ................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ¥511 ¥297 ¥702 ¥660 ¥657 ¥586 ¥648 ¥706 ¥798 ¥910
EOY Balance ........................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1,246 1,556 1,621 1,777 1,850 2,001 2,299 2,695 3,234 3,751
HMTF Cash Flow:
2008
Actual
2009
Actual
2010
Actual
2011
Actual
2012
Actual
2013
Actual
2014
Actual
2015
Actual
2016
Est.
2017
Request
BOY Balance ........................................................................................................................................................................ 3,751 4,559 5,003 5,474 6,280 6,958 7,806 8,316 8,684 9,064
Receipts & Interest .............................................................................................................................................................. 1,594 1,253 1,299 1,629 1,587 1,696 1,617 1,517 1,662 1,802
Outlays ................................................................................................................................................................................. ¥786 ¥808 ¥828 ¥823 ¥909 ¥848 ¥1,107 ¥1,149 ¥1,282 ¥986
EOY Balance ........................................................................................................................................................................ 4,559 5,003 5,474 6,280 6,958 7,806 8,316 8,684 9,064 9,980
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:19 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.090 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8530 October 28, 2019
Again, these are collected taxes for which,
by law, only authorized Federal navigation
maintenance work is eligible. That the
unspent balance has been allowed to accumu-
late and sit in the Federal Treasury as bal-
last against budget deficits is especially dis-
turbing at a time when Congress and the
White House have rightly talked about the
importance of tending to the county’s essen-
tial infrastructure. In the case of port chan-
nels, the money exists. That is an important
consideration. No new revenue stream is re-
quired.
As a final note, and for clarity sake, this
issue is unrelated to the funding of the in-
land waterway system. There vessels, includ-
ing as tug and towboats, are charged an ex-
cise tax on fuel expenses. That revenue is ac-
counted for in the Inland Waterways Trust
Fund and is spent on construction work such
as lock and dam improvements. It is note-
worthy that unlike the case with the Harbor
Maintenance Trust Fund, the Inland Water-
ways Trust Fund resources are fully spent on
that system’s navigation projects.
Please vote for the Full Utilization of the
Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund legislation.
Sincerely,
WILLIAM D. FRIEDMAN,
President & Chief Executive Officer.
f
EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR
FLORIDA’S SEASONAL GROWERS
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to raise awareness about an issue
that is important to our Nation and es-
sential to my district. Strawberry
growers in Plant City, Florida, are
under attack.
For years Mexico has spent millions
subsidizing their strawberry produc-
tion. This has allowed them to export
strawberries at a cost our local growers
cannot compete with. Consequently,
imports of Mexican strawberries have
increased by approximately 80 percent
since 2010. Furthermore, current trade
agreements don’t allow seasonal grow-
ers to bring antidumping claims. This
means our growers are left with a right
against unlawful dumping but no
means of enforcing it.
Plant City, Florida, is known as the
Winter Strawberry Capital of the
World and produces more than 85 per-
cent of all the winter strawberries
grown here in our Nation. It is impera-
tive for Congress to correct the situa-
tion and pass legislation that gives our
growers the protections that they need
and deserve.
f
PAYING TRIBUTE TO THE
HONORABLE JOHN CONYERS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Mrs. LAWRENCE) is recog-
nized for 60 minutes as the designee of
the majority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous material on the
subject of my Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Michigan?
There was no objection.
Mrs. LAWRENCE: Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to pay tribute to Congressman
John Conyers. He was one of the 13
founding members of the Congressional
Black Caucus. I stand here today join-
ing the chair of the Congressional
Black Caucus, KAREN BASS, in recog-
nizing that he served for 53 years in the
U.S. House of Representatives, making
him one of the longest-serving House
Members in history and the first Afri-
can American to hold the title of dean.
Congressman Conyers was born in
Detroit on May 16, 1929, the eldest of
four sons of John and Lucille. He at-
tended Detroit public schools and grad-
uated from Northwestern High School.
After graduating he served in the Na-
tional Guard and then joined the U.S.
Army.
He was inspired by his friend, Dr.
Martin Luther King, to run for office
and was elected to the House of Rep-
resentatives in 1964. His first hire was
civil rights hero, Rosa Parks.
As a human rights and civil rights
champion, Mr. Conyers opposed the
death penalty and fought police bru-
tality. He also co-led and was a cospon-
sor for the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
Mr. Conyers also assisted in passing
the Help America Vote Act, the Vio-
lence Against Women Act, the motor
vehicle bill, the National Jazz Preser-
vation, Education and Promulgation
Act, and the Martin Luther King Fed-
eral Holiday Commission Extension
Act.
Today I am joined by a number of my
colleagues who will be giving remarks.
Mr. Speaker, it is with honor that I
yield to the gentleman from New Jer-
sey (Mr. PAYNE). My colleague and my
colleague’s father both served with
John Conyers.
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, let me
first thank the gentlewoman from De-
troit for her leadership on this issue to-
night. We felt it was only fitting that
she lead us in this Special Order hour
for Mr. Conyers.
I rise to honor the former Congress-
man, John James Conyers, after his
passing on October 27, 2019. I would like
to start by offering my thoughts and
prayers to his wife, Monica, and his
sons, John and Carl, during this time
of loss.
Mr. Conyers spent 53 years as a Con-
gressman from Michigan, mostly from
districts in and around the Detroit
area. Mr. Conyers was the third long-
est-serving Congressman and the long-
est-serving African American Con-
gressman in United States history.
He helped found the Congressional
Black Caucus with some of our Na-
tion’s most prominent civil rights lead-
ers and colleagues such as Shirley
Chisholm and William Lacy Clay, Sr.,
the father of my esteemed colleague,
WILLIAM LACY CLAY, Jr., from Mis-
souri’s First District.
During his life he had several accom-
plishments in and out of Congress. He
joined voter registration drives in
Selma, Alabama, in 1963, a year before
the landmark 1964 Civil Rights Act
even became law. As a Congressman, he
led the drive to help make Martin Lu-
ther King, Jr.’s birthday a national
holiday and succeeded through perse-
verance and continued efforts to make
that happen despite insurmountable
odds. He helped calm revolters in his
district during Detroit’s racial strife of
1967. He was a vocal opponent of apart-
heid in South Africa, a political system
of legal racial discrimination that he
just—as many of us in this great Na-
tion—would not tolerate. He fought for
restrictions on gun ownership to pre-
vent violence, because he knew what it
meant in so many of our communities
to have these lax laws.
At one point Mr. Conyers was called
the leading Black voice in Congress. He
was also known as one of the best
dressers on Capitol Hill and a lover of
jazz. He even got the Congress to de-
clare jazz a national American treasure
in 1987.
He was a dedicated public servant, an
honored Korean war veteran, a cham-
pion of racial equality, and a strong
figure in this House for half a century.
His legacy will be remembered long
after his passing. The work that he has
done on this floor and in these Halls is
second to none. He cared about this Na-
tion, he cared about his colleagues, and
he cared about his constituents in his
district.
We will miss him dearly. Mr. Conyers
was one of a kind. We are saddened by
his loss, so we are here to honor him in
the manner in which he should be as an
esteemed former Member of this House.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, there
are so many facts that we need to
share about John Conyers, including
the fact that in his 52 years in office he
represented Michigan’s First Congres-
sional District, Michigan’s 14th Con-
gressional District, and Michigan’s
13th Congressional District. Also dur-
ing his time in Congress he chaired the
House Oversight and Reform Com-
mittee and also the House Judiciary
Committee and served as dean of the
House.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Georgia (Mr. LEWIS) who is my
amazing colleague and who will have
comments about the passing and hon-
oring of our colleague whom we all are
mourning, John Conyers, who impacted
so many of us in this country.
Mr. LEWIS. Mr. Speaker, I want to
thank the young lady from Michigan—
Mrs. LAWRENCE. I love that.
Mr. LEWIS. Well, you are still very
young—for bringing us together to
honor John Conyers.
The former dean of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the cofounder of the
Congressional Black Caucus, John Con-
yers, was born at a time when we need-
ed someone to stand up and to speak up
and speak out and to get in the way of
getting what I call good trouble, nec-
essary trouble.
As a matter of fact, John Conyers
and Martin Luther King, Jr. were born
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:19 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.068 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8531
October 28, 2019
the same year, so maybe history, faith,
and maybe God Almighty placed the
two of them here to work together.
Before being elected to Congress, Mr.
Conyers served in the Korean war and
on the staff of Representative John
Dingell. When the people of Michigan
elected Mr. Conyers in 1964, he brought
Congress to the front lines of the civil
rights movement, and he took civil
rights, voting rights, labor rights, and
human rights to the United States
Congress.
John Conyers, perhaps more than any
other Member of Congress, made trips
over and over and over again to the
South to identify with the struggle
going on in the South. He came to Ala-
bama, to Georgia, Mississippi, and
other parts of the Deep South.
Mr. Speaker, Representative Conyers
was one of two Members of Congress,
both from Michigan, who voted on the
original and every single reauthoriza-
tion of the Voting Rights Act. He could
give us the backstory of every major
law from the Civil Rights Act of 1968 to
the 20-year effort to establish a Na-
tional Day of Service honoring my
friend and leader, Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr.
When Rosa Parks, a person I got to
know so well, was forced to leave her
home State of Alabama after the Mont-
gomery bus boycott, Mr. Conyers more
than anyone else gave her a position on
his staff, and she was very proud and
pleased to work in the office of John
Conyers. She served in his district of-
fice for 23 years.
The record should be clear: John Con-
yers loved music, but he loved jazz. He
loved jazz more than any other form of
music.
b 2015
He loved this institution, and he
dedicated his life to realizing the
dream of what our Nation could be. He
was of the people, and he was for the
people.
On this difficult day, I offer my deep-
est condolences to his beloved wife,
sons, family, and the people of Michi-
gan who mourn his loss.
May he rest in peace and in power.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Congressman LEWIS.
Some other facts that people may
not know about John Conyers: He
worked for the Lincoln auto factory
and was a member of the UAW. He be-
came the director of education for
UAW Local 900. He was the first Afri-
can American to chair the House Com-
mittee on the Judiciary. He also spon-
sored the Racial Justice Act and the
Police Accountability Act during that
time.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Illinois (Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS), a
Member of Congress who has fought
many fights and has stood up and
knows the story of justice in our coun-
try.
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, let me thank the gentle-
woman, first of all, for organizing this
Special Order that gives all the rest of
us the opportunity to come to pay trib-
ute to my hero.
As a matter of fact, I am old enough
to remember in a very vivid way the
late 1950s and early 1960s with people
like John Conyers, Martin Luther
King, JOHN LEWIS, Whitney Young, and
other heroes of the period.
Although John was elected in Michi-
gan, he was really all of our Congress-
man. He was the Representative for all
of us. We didn’t have 55 African Amer-
ican or Black Members of Congress at
that time, but we had those voices that
were strong and vibrant, those voices
that gave hope.
There was so much hope and possi-
bility being expressed during that pe-
riod that those of us who were emerg-
ing had no idea that there was any-
thing that we couldn’t accomplish, any
changes that we couldn’t bring about,
any possibilities that did not exist.
And that, to me, was the true essence
of John Conyers.
I was tremendously impressed with
John because he was always for the un-
derdog. He was always for the little
guy, always for the little person, al-
ways representing those who were left
out, those who were unheard, even
those who were unheard of.
I don’t think there was any place in
America where action was going on
that John didn’t go. As a matter of
fact, at the time when we were electing
the first African American mayor in
the city of Chicago, John was there
every week. We thought he had moved
to Chicago, that he didn’t live in De-
troit. I mean, every week, from the
time, I guess, he left here, in churches
and churches and block parties and ev-
eryplace that you could possibly turn,
there was John Conyers.
John has given the very best that
you can give.
To his wife and sons and other mem-
bers of his family, we say thank you
for lending John to all of us.
I guess the poet Walter Foss maybe
had John in mind when he penned
these words that I end with.
There are hermit souls that live withdrawn
in the peace of their self-content;
There are souls, like stars, that dwell apart,
in a fellowless firmament;
There are pioneer souls that blaze their
paths where highways never ran;
But let me live by the side of the road and be
a friend to man.
Let me live in a house by the side of the
road, where the race of men go by;
The men who are good and the men who are
bad, as good and as bad as I.
I would not sit in the scorner’s seat, or hurl
the cynic’s ban;
Let me live in my house by the side of the
road and be a friend to man.
I see from my house by the side of the road,
by the side of the highway of life,
The men who press with the ardor of hope,
the men who are faint with the strife.
But I turn not away from their smiles nor
their tears, both parts of an infinite
plan;
Let me live in my house by the side of the
road and be a friend to man.
So let me live in my house by the
side of the road where the race of men
go by, men who are good, men who are
bad, wise, foolish, but then so am I.
So why would I sit in the scorner’s
seat or hurl the cynic’s ban? Let me
live in my house by the side of the
road, like John Conyers, and be a
friend to man.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman. That was beau-
tiful.
We continue in our effort to capture
the life of a great man who served in
this House.
Again, another fact: Since 1989, John
Conyers had introduced H.R. 40, the
Commission to Study Reparation Pro-
posals for African Americans Act. This
bill would establish a commission to
examine the institution of slavery in
the United States. The legislation has
now been taken up by our colleague
from Texas, Congresswoman SHEILA
JACKSON LEE.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Pennsylvania (Mr. EVANS), my
colleague who has shown to be a voice
of reason, hard work, and compassion
in his service to Congress.
Mr. EVANS. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
honorable friend, Congresswoman LAW-
RENCE, for her leadership on someone
who really set a tone, not just in De-
troit and Michigan, but the entire Na-
tion. I thank her for her leadership.
Mr. Speaker, I knew Chairman Con-
yers, not as well as some of the Mem-
bers who have spoken, but I did know
him. We each represented the largest
city in a large northern industrial
State. Philadelphia and Detroit have
many of the same problems, such as
poverty, gun violence, a loss of good
manufacturing jobs, and access to
healthcare.
I didn’t tell my colleague, Congress-
woman LAWRENCE, that when she men-
tioned May 16, I was born on that same
day, so there is that connection there.
The chairman was one of the 12
founders of the Congressional Black
Caucus. From Pennsylvania, the person
who was one of them was Robert N.C.
Nix, who was elected in 1958.
So 48 years ago, as a result of the
chairman, we have built on the backs
of those founders. Today, there are 54
of us in the caucus, including the
House majority whip, two Senators,
four chairs of House committees, and
one of our former members who became
a two-term President of the United
States.
The chairman helped to lay the
groundwork for this progress. When he
cosponsored the Voting Rights Act of
1965, I was 10 years of age. In 1965, the
Voting Rights Act banned discrimina-
tion at the ballot box. He was a fierce
critic of the Vietnam war that led to a
clash with President Lyndon Johnson.
It even won him a spot on President
Nixon’s enemy list.
It is rather interesting to have this
conversation today because, as I recall,
he played an important role in the im-
peachment proceedings. Mr. Speaker, I
want my colleagues to know that I saw
that on my black-and-white TV.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.093 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8532 October 28, 2019
Once again, we are building on the
back of the work that he and other
Members did in 1973 and 1974.
We should thank the chairman for
his leading role in creating the Federal
holiday that honors Martin Luther
King. He introduced a bill 4 days after
Dr. King was murdered. When Con-
gressman LEWIS talks about that, he
knows what he is talking about. The
fight took 15 years, but he succeeded.
The chairman also played a leading
role in another long fight, the struggle
to end apartheid in South Africa, with
a Congressman from Pennsylvania by
the name of William Gray. I recall, Mr.
Speaker, meeting President Mandela.
I say all of these things because there
is a connection to all of us who are
here today. I think that we should
honor the chairman for all that he has
contributed to this Nation.
I want to close with how I recall the
chairman urging skeptical African
Americans to get involved in politics.
He used to say, ‘‘Register, vote, run for
office. It is power that counts.’’
He used to say, ‘‘Register, vote, run
for office. It is power that counts.’’
There is an election, Mr. Speaker, 8
days from now. An important way for
all of us to honor the legacy of Chair-
man Conyers, to honor everyone who
has worked for civil rights, is to vote.
I recall him loving music so much. I
heard him talk about John Coltrane.
I think it is important to recognize
that the chairman did so much for all
of us. I feel really a sincere obligation
and a commitment to add my voice to
the foundation that he has laid.
As a person who has been a Member
of the Congress for only 3 years, be-
cause of the foundation he laid, I have
the opportunity to stand here today.
So many of us not just in the Congres-
sional Black Caucus but Members who
are in this House, he has contributed to
all of us.
I want you to use your voice and be
heard. As he would say, ‘‘Vote.’’
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my colleague for mentioning so
many of the accomplishments that
John Conyers had.
I want to add to that his legislative
record extends to introducing the
Medicare for All Act, legislation to es-
tablish a government-sponsored single-
payer healthcare option to control
costs. Additionally, he championed the
issues of reparations to establish a
commission that I had mentioned ear-
lier.
He fought for justice that also ex-
tended to international issues. He was
an early leader in the anti-Vietnam
war movement in addition to the anti-
Iraq war movement.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Nevada (Mr. HORSFORD), my col-
league and a hardworking freshman. It
is hard to recognize that he is a fresh-
man.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the chair and the anchor for this
Special Order hour, Congresswoman
BRENDA LAWRENCE, for her commit-
ment, dedication, and service, not just
to the people of Detroit but to the peo-
ple of this great Nation.
b 2030
I join with my colleagues, not only in
the Congressional Black Caucus, but
this body of government as a whole, in
mourning a giant in the legacy of Rep-
resentative John Conyers.
Representative John Conyers was a
force to be reckoned with, a leader of
the civil rights movement who stood
tall in the House of Representatives for
more than a half century, the longest
serving African American Congress-
man.
During his 53 years as the Represent-
ative for the part of Michigan encom-
passing Detroit, Congressman Conyers
fought for the people of his State tooth
and nail.
Congressman Conyers was known as
the dean of the House of Representa-
tives, and he paved the way for all of us
who are here this evening. I really be-
lieve that we stand on his shoulders.
Speaking to his legacy, he was a co-
founder of the Congressional Black
Caucus. So, the fact that we are now 54
members in number representing more
than 84 million people across the coun-
try, it was the vision of people like
Congressman Conyers and others that
allowed the Congressional Black Cau-
cus to come forward.
He also led the charge to declare, as
has been stated, a national holiday in
honor of the great Reverend Martin
Luther King, Jr., a day Congressman
Conyers fought for tirelessly that we
now hold in our hearts as a day of re-
membrance for the legacy of another
fearless leader.
He also served on two powerful com-
mittees as chairman: the House Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform—and
we just mourned the passing of the
chairman of that great committee,
Chairman Cummings—and the House
Judiciary Committee, which has great
responsibility; and, in both, he never
shied away from speaking truth to
power.
As has been stated by my good friend
Congressman EVANS, one of his early
mottos was: Register, vote, run for of-
fice. It is power that counts.
So we will continue to harness this
power to promote the ideals that Con-
gressman Conyers espoused during his
career.
I want to note, and I don’t think I
shared this with Congresswoman LAW-
RENCE, but there is a group called the
Detroit Connection. Because so many
people tend to come to Las Vegas to re-
tire, we have a big contingency of De-
troit people, and they have an event
every year called the Detroit Connec-
tion. They raise money. They provide
scholarships.
I was so honored one year to have
Congressman Conyers come to Las
Vegas and attend the event for the De-
troit Connection, and it made that
group feel so good to know that their
champion and their Representative was
still there.
So, we will use the privilege of serv-
ing—I know I will as one of the new,
younger Members—to continue to fight
for equality and justice for all, just as
Congressman Conyers did during his 53
years here on Capitol Hill.
Tonight, we honor him with our
words, but tomorrow we must honor
him with our actions.
Congressman Conyers, we will con-
tinue the good work you started all
those years ago. May you rest in power.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I
would like to read a statement by the
Honorable EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
about the Congressman.
She said: I pay tribute to the life and
legacy of a distinguished public servant
and colleague, John James Conyers Jr.,
who passed away this weekend, and she
asked that her colleagues join her in
extending sympathies to Congressman
Conyers’ wife, Monica; Conyers’ sons,
John Conyers III and Carl Edward Con-
yers; and all whom he influenced over
the course of his life. May he rest in
peace.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to bring
forth my Michigan delegation col-
league. It is significant to note that
RASHIDA TLAIB, Congresswoman TLAIB,
actually represents the seat from
which John Conyers retired.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Michigan, RASHIDA TLAIB.
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
with a heavy heart in joining my be-
loved colleague, who also represents
the city of Detroit, in paying tribute to
our wonderful, late Congress Member
John Conyers, the longest serving Afri-
can American in the United States
Congress, a true civil rights icon and
visionary, and the man who will for-
ever be our Congressman.
The Honorable John Conyers Jr.’s
mission to make sweeping changes in
civil rights by fighting on behalf of the
people started well before he ever
stepped onto the United States House
floor. One of the things that he said at
the passing of Rosa Parks, his dear
friend, was: ‘‘We’ve got a tremendous
legacy to fulfill. You can’t maintain a
democracy and an empire simulta-
neously.’’ And he said, ‘‘Rosa, you
taught me that.’’
But, when he first was sworn in to
the Congress in 1965 during a time of
great social unrest in our country’s
history, he embarked on what would
become a 50-year tenure of service to
our people that would result in that
mission being accomplished, and then
some.
Indeed, his more than 50 years of
service brought forth the vision of rep-
arations for African Americans, the
centering of voting rights, a continued
push for universal healthcare, the cre-
ation of the Congressional Black Cau-
cus, and the inspiration of not just
those in Detroit for whom he worked
tirelessly, but he directly impacted
many, many countless Americans
across the country.
When I first was elected to succeed
Congressman Conyers, I knew that I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.095 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8533
October 28, 2019
had a tremendous legacy to carry. It is
that tremendous legacy that propels
my work on behalf of Michigan’s 13th
Congressional District that I fight for
every single day.
I remember when I was in his pres-
ence of greatness, he never exhibited
anything less than grace and kindness.
He always paused and took time to
talk to the residents. He taught me
that.
Sadly, the last time I spoke to him
was at his 90th birthday celebration in
Detroit. He was joyful and, yes, he still
had the presence of greatness, as Con-
gresswoman BRENDA LAWRENCE saw for
herself as well.
Detroit and our district will sorely
miss him.
May he rest in peace as we continue
to fight for what he fought for for so
long with unwavering strength: for
jobs, justice, and peace.
I pray that his wife, Monica Conyers,
and the family find strength during
this difficult time.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman as we share
the amazing honor of representing the
city of Detroit, a place that John Con-
yers loved and gave his life to.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to also read
from a statement from our chair of the
Congressional Black Caucus, KAREN
BASS. Her statement outlines his life
and his history.
It also talks about how he fought
apartheid and that he confronted Presi-
dent Nixon about imposing sanctions
against South Africa; and, when it be-
came clear that the President wouldn’t
act, he joined Congressman Dellums in
introducing legislation to that end and
was even arrested at a protest, in front,
of South Africa.
He impacted so many people in his
district and throughout the country.
America is a better country today be-
cause of the legislative and advocacy
work of Representative John Conyers
Jr.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to bring
forth a chair of this amazing body—a
chair, a member of the Congressional
Black Caucus, and an amazing leader,
Congressman SCOTT.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. SCOTT).
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I thank the gentlewoman for holding
this Special Order and recognizing the
legacy of Congressman John Conyers. I
want to join those who are honoring
his legacy.
He served in Congress longer than
any other African American. He rep-
resented Michigan and the Nation for
over 50 years. He was a founding mem-
ber of the Congressional Black Caucus,
and he served as dean of the House.
He was a giant in civil rights. He
often bragged about being the only
candidate for elective office ever en-
dorsed by Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
Also, for many years Rosa Parks
worked in his Detroit district office.
As a legislator, he was a true cham-
pion of civil rights and leaves behind a
legacy of fighting for transformative
change that continues today. His five
decades of service in Congress are
marked by a core fundamental belief in
equity and justice for all.
For many years, I worked with Con-
gressman Conyers on the Judiciary
Committee, and most recently, we
worked together to address segregation
in our public schools. We also fought
together for equity in education, as
well as criminal justice reform, voting
rights, and breaking down barriers to
employment.
I want to send my condolences to his
family, his loved ones, the entire De-
troit community, and all who are
mourning the loss of a lifelong cham-
pion for a better America.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for those kind
words and informative message.
Mr. Speaker, at this time, I would
like to bring forth a woman in our Con-
gress, the longest serving woman in
Congress, MARCY KAPTUR, who served
with the dean of Congress and would
like to reflect.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR).
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Congresswoman BRENDA LAWRENCE for
inviting us to come to the floor this
evening to share our sorrow with the
Conyers family and the people of
Greater Detroit that Congressman Con-
yers represented here so forcefully
throughout his entire career.
I would like to extend sympathy to
his wife, Monica, and to his sons, John
and Carl, that he used to come walk
through Congress, even when they were
small. He would take them on the train
from one side of the Capitol to the
other. I can still see him doing that.
As others have mentioned, he served
from 1965 to 2017. So, from the civil
rights movement at its apex, that fer-
vor came into this Chamber, and John
served over half a century in further-
ance of America’s betterment.
He was the 44th dean of the House. He
became its most senior member and,
certainly, the longest serving African
American in the history of the United
States of America.
I think most Members would agree,
he truly was a drum major for justice
and also a drum major for jobs and fair
wages for all workers.
His service was anchored by those
parallel visions, and I can still remem-
ber coming as a new Member to Con-
gress. There were three men who were
serving at that time: John; another
John, John Dingell; and a man named
William Ford.
The three of them together, in my
mind, actually formed the northern
apex of the civil rights and labor rights
movement in this country, and Amer-
ica was bettered by all of their serv-
ices. They worked in tandem.
They had been forged by the same set
of experiences and came to us from
what we in the Midwest call Motown,
Motor City. That is a place that is un-
like any other in the United States of
America.
It has a rich history. It has a history
of struggle. It produced famous singing
groups like The Supremes, contem-
poraneous with John’s adulthood, the
Detroit Tigers, and lots of jazz. John
loved jazz.
If you think about what he rep-
resented, Detroit is not really a tea
and crumpets city. My apologies to all
those who enjoy tea and crumpets. It is
really a heavy-duty town, a very plu-
ralistic community where the fight for
organized labor was rooted and, some-
thing that we know well in our region,
the strike at a place called River
Rouge that began the work in our
country to value labor through con-
tract—not just happenstance, but by an
actual contract.
And John Conyers was a part of the
development of the law that allowed
for the dignity of labor, but it was born
out of the struggle in Detroit, a very
rough-and-tumble world.
One of his early jobs was with the
United Auto Workers, in which our
family has had members for many gen-
erations now, and he and I shared that
affinity.
b 2045
He was not an arrogant man, but he
was rooted, again, in the fight for jus-
tice during the best years of his life.
When he arranged for the funeral in
Detroit of Rosa Parks—and the history
of the Montgomery Bus Boycott is
written, I don’t think a lot of people
really know that he actually had hired
Rosa Parks in his office from 1965 to
1988. I can recall, in 2005, attending the
funeral of Rosa Parks—what a central
role John Conyers played in that mag-
nificent ceremony. But through it was
the continuing education of the people
of the United States of America as to
what the civil rights struggle, and our
struggle as a people, has actually been
comprised of, a constant struggle.
I have to say, on the humorous side,
he loved cars that drove fast. I hap-
pened to be in one of those cars one
time, 90 miles an hour on I–75. I don’t
know how we ever didn’t get a ticket.
But he was always moving forward. I
would guess we shared thousands—I
started adding it up today—thousands
of airplane flights between Washington
and Michigan, as we went to our re-
spective hometowns. And I always
found him to be very cordial, very
friendly, full of good humor.
He was a perpetual anchor for us on
moving American forward, a leading
strategist in that endeavor.
So I hope it is of some comfort to his
loved ones and to the people that he
represented that his being and his inde-
fatigable spirit are now freed from
Earth’s binds; and that his soul may
rise high and shower our precious
world with peace and justice from sea
to shining sea.
With heavy heart, golden memories, and
abiding gratitude may I extend deepest sym-
pathies on the passing of Congressman John
Conyers of Detroit, Michigan to his family, his
loving wife Monica, sons John and Carl, his
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.096 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8534 October 28, 2019
constituents and colleagues who honor his life
of service to our nation.
An accomplished lawyer and passionate
civil rights and labor leader, Rep. Conyers
rose through the ranks of Congress to become
Chair of the powerful House Judiciary Com-
mittee. In 2015, he because Dean of the U.S.
House of Representatives. His contributions to
advancing the cause minority and labor rights
as intertwined is legendary. He was a found-
ing member of the Black Caucus, along with
Rep. Bill Clay of Missouri and Rep. Louis
Stokes of Ohio now 54 members strong.
When Rep. Conyers arrived in Congress, and
helped create The Congressional Black Cau-
cus, there were only 13 African American
Members. He authored and passed legislation
creating the Martin Luther King holiday in
1983, and by 2000—17 years later—all 50
states had adopted it.
John Conyers served as a perpetual anchor
in the North for the burgeoning Civil Rights
movement of the 1960’s and became a lead-
ing strategist. His deep commitment accom-
panied by an affable nature drew people to his
cause. A lover of jazz and the arts, Rep. Con-
yers never lost his joy of living despite the se-
rious obstacles he confronted. Along with his
Michigan barrister colleagues Rep. William
Ford and Rep. John Dingell, the three formed
a triumvirate that defined the value set and
meaning of ‘‘Democrat’’ from the industrial,
pluralistic cities of middle America.
May it be of comfort to his loved ones that
his being and indefatigable spirit are now
freed from earth’s binds, May his soul rise
high and shower our precious world with
peace, and justice from sea to shining sea.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to the gentleman from Tennessee
(Mr. COHEN) for his remarks.
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, when I was
a freshman, in 2007, I was the only
Member of the House who chose Judici-
ary as their first committee choice, at
least the only Democrat. That gave me
the opportunity to be on John Conyers’
committee, him being my chairman for
10-plus years, and that was a blessing
to me.
He taught me much. I would consider
him my mentor. He taught me about
life; he taught me about Judiciary
issues in the Congress. He taught me
about life.
John Conyers was a spirit. I some-
times thought of him kind of as like a
hippie because he had these ethereal
thoughts about the way people ought
to be, and about caring about people,
and about justice, and about civil
rights that was unlike thoughts you
would hear from most people.
But he was ahead of the hippies. He
was ahead of BERNIE SANDERS. He was
ahead of so many people.
And we talk here today, so many peo-
ple, about him being—which is all
true—the longest serving African
American Member of Congress. But it
was more than that. He was a voice for
truth on this floor before people real-
ized the truth was the truth. He was a
voice for truth when people just
thought it was an African American
guy talking about African American
issues. But it wasn’t African American
issues, it was human issues. It was the
essence of America, about justice, and
freedom, and opportunity, and right,
and he espoused it at an early time,
when a lot of people didn’t get it. Peo-
ple get it now.
Dr. King got a holiday. Dr. King was
great, but people hated Dr. King for
years.
People didn’t know about Rosa
Parks, per se. He gave her a job, and he
put her on a pedestal, which she de-
served to be.
I will tell you a story about John
Conyers. When I was a freshman, and I
have an African American district, and
some people weren’t so crazy about me
being up here. John Conyers took me
under his wing from day 1.
I had a resolution to apologize for
slavery and Jim Crow. I had that reso-
lution because I had suggested it to
Bill Clinton in 1997 and wrote him a
letter when I was a State Senator and
suggested he should sponsor such a
thing and have a dialogue about race in
America. I got a response from Bill
Clinton, but it was gibberish and he
didn’t act upon it.
But when I got elected to Congress
and I was going through my letters as
a State Senator in my office, I came
across that letter; and I said to myself,
I am a Congressman now and I can do
something about it. I don’t have to
write Bill Clinton and get a meaning-
less response.
So I introduced that resolution,
heartfelt, and appropriate. Some peo-
ple didn’t want it to come to the floor.
Some didn’t want a White person to
sponsor it. Some thought I was using it
for politics to get re-elected.
The fact is, my political consultant
told me not to do it. He said: ‘‘You’ve
got this race won. Don’t do it. It can
only hurt you.’’
I said: ‘‘You don’t get it. I’m doing
this because it matters to me, to make
it happen. It has mattered to me since
1997 when I was a State Senator.’’
So one day, I had my cell phone, low
on power; and I had a staffer bring
from Longworth, where my office was,
a charger, and I charged it up in the
Judiciary Committee.
I went back to Longworth and I
couldn’t find my cell phone. I had for-
gotten where I had left it. I realized I
left it charging in the Judiciary Com-
mittee, so I went over there at the end
of the day. That is the only time that
ever happened to me. It was about a
week or 10 days before my election in
August, just to put it in perspective. I
went there, and John Conyers was hav-
ing a meeting with his staff on what to
do the next week.
We were in the midst of interviewing
people on the Bush team, Alberto
Gonzales, and some lady from Liberty
University who had done some stuff
that was questionable; and we were
taking on the Bush Justice Depart-
ment which had done some egregious
things.
I was a freshman, and pretty much in
awe of John Conyers, and so I was in
the back room and he was in his office
and he said: ‘‘Steve, come on in.’’
Well, I was 10 feet high. I was going
into a meeting with John Conyers of
what was going to go on that next
week. They were tossing about ideas
about maybe bringing up an impeach-
ment of George Bush and some other
issues. And I decided to throw out kind
of a Doug Flutie Hail Mary pass. I said:
‘‘Well how about if we have an apology
for Jim Crow and slavery?’’
And without a blink, John Conyers
said: ‘‘That’s a great idea. Put it on for
next week.’’
That is how it got scheduled. We
came here, John Conyers managed the
time. It passed on a voice vote. I re-
gretted that because I wanted to have
everybody vote on it, but John Conyers
said, and properly so, take your victory
when you can get it.
We had a man on the other side, a
Republican, who brought up some in-
sane babble about some Christians
being thrown off a boat in the Medi-
terranean by some Moroccans or some-
thing. What this had to with slavery
and Jim Crow was beyond any of us,
and I wanted to respond to it.
Mr. Conyers said: ‘‘Let him be. Let’s
just pass this and move on.’’ And he
was right.
My proudest accomplishment as a
freshman, and one of my proudest ac-
complishments in this Congress, was
the passage of that resolution. It would
not have happened but for John Con-
yers’ sponsorship and support. So I
thank him for being a mentor, and
teaching me so much, and giving me
that opportunity.
He did love jazz. We talked about jazz
all the time. He played jazz in his of-
fice. He had jazz musicians come up to
any proceedings he had in Washington
and had them perform. And I learned
about different jazz people that I had
previously not known about.
He came to Memphis to support me
in my first term as the first
Congressperson to come there. He was
honored with an April 4th Foundation
award, which goes to great, courageous
leaders in civil rights on the anniver-
sary of the assassination of Dr. King.
He was given that award.
He came to Memphis also just to sup-
port me. He was a proud Kappa, coming
in his red coat. And all the Kappas
were there with him, and the Kappas
loved him. He was a Kappa, and they
loved it.
I thanked him for his service. I think
about him almost every day up here.
We used to sit here together on the
floor.
He would ride the escalators when he
would leave the Judiciary Committee.
Sometimes I ride the escalators now,
and I think about John Conyers. It is
not really the quickest way to go, but
John Conyers did it, and I do it.
So thank you, John Conyers, for
teaching me so much, and for being a
great leader, a man beyond his years in
terms of his knowledge, and his spirit,
and ahead of his time with his ideas of
civil rights and justice and fairness for
all people.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.059 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8535
October 28, 2019
God bless you.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, as I
wrap up now in our tribute to John
Conyers, the dean, he was many things:
He was a UAW labor member; he was a
military veteran; he was a fighter for
voters’ rights, for healthcare, for rep-
arations, for racial justice. He was a
lover and promoter of jazz.
But most of all, I stand here today,
as a Member of Congress representing
Michigan’s 14th District. He was De-
troit. He was Motown. He was a person
whose thumbprint will remain
throughout history as a political voice,
a leader, and a beloved man in the his-
tory of our city and of metro Detroit.
I want to say to the family, we send
all the love and respect; and to say, in
closing, John Conyers, rest in power.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I am
very saddened to hear Congressman Conyers
passed away. He was a champion for racial
equality and changed Congress for the better
by co-founding the Congressional Black Cau-
cus. John was a powerful and effective legis-
lator who never stopped fighting to improve
our nation, which he served longer than any
other black Member of Congress to date. His
career helped pave the way for the thriving
Black Caucus we now enjoy.
John lived through many pivotal moments in
our nation’s history. When Rosa Parks strug-
gled to find a job after her historic protest,
John rushed to hire her. She worked in his
district office for 23 years until her retirement.
When Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was assas-
sinated, John began to fight for a holiday to
honor him 4 days after Dr. King’s death.
It took him 15 long years, but John kept
pushing to honor King’s memory and the bat-
tle for civil rights.
Vivian and I send our condolences to his
wife, children, and all loved ones as we keep
them in our prayers in this difficult time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to pay tribute to the life and legacy of
a distinguished public servant and colleague,
Congressman John James Conyers, Jr., who
passed away this weekend.
Congressman Conyers was born and raised
in Detroit, Michigan, to parents Lucille Janice
(Simpson) and John Conyers. He graduated
from Northwestern High School before an-
swering his country’s call to service and join-
ing the military. Congressman Conyers served
three stints in the military; in the Michigan Na-
tional Guard from 1948 to 1950; in the U.S.
Army from 1950 to 1954; and in the U.S. Army
Reserves from 1954 to 1957. Following his
military service, he attended Wayne State Uni-
versity where he earned a Bachelor of Arts
and Bachelor of Laws.
Congressman Conyers had the opportunity
to represent three Congressional Districts in
the U.S. House of Representatives during his
52 years in office; Michigan’s 1st Congres-
sional District, 14th Congressional District, and
13th Congressional District, respectively. Dur-
ing his time in Congress, he chaired the pow-
erful House Oversight and Judiciary Commit-
tees, served as Dean of the House, and nota-
bly hired Rosa Parks as a staffer in his district
office. Additionally, Congressman Conyers is
marked as an original co-founder of the Con-
gressional Black Caucus and was the first to
introduce a bill calling for the recognition of
Martin Luther King, Jr.’s birthday as a national
holiday. At the time of his retirement from pub-
lic office, he was the longest-serving African
American Member of Congress in our history.
Mr. Speaker, I ask that my colleagues join
me in extending sympathies to Congressman
Conyers’ wife, Monica Conyers, sons John
Conyers III and Carl Edward Conyers, and all
whom he influenced over the course of his life.
May he rest in peace.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the Congressional Black Caucus for convening
anchoring this Special Order in remembrance
of Chairman John Conyers, Jr., the tireless
fighter for justice and equality, Chairman of
House Committees on Oversight and on the
Judiciary, founding member of Congressional
Black Caucus, Member of Congress, Member
of Congress from Michigan for 53 years, my
mentor, a beloved colleague, and dear friend
who died on Sunday, October 27, 2019, at his
home in Detroit, Michigan at the age of 90.
Mr. Speaker, John Conyers, Jr. was a
statesman and strong and supporter of equal-
ity, economic and social justice, civil rights,
and human dignity for all.
John Conyers, Jr. was born May 16, 1929
in Highland Park, Michigan to Lucille Janice
and John Conyers, Sr., a union organizer in
the automotive industry and an international
representative with the United Auto Workers.
After graduation from Northwestern High
School, John Conyers dutifully served his
country in the Michigan National Guard from
1948 to 1950, the U.S. Army from 1950 to
1954, and the U.S. Army Reserves from 1954
to 1957, serving during the Korean War and
as an officer in the U.S. Army Corps of Engi-
neers where he was awarded combat and
merit citations.
Following his military service, John Conyers
earned his Bachelor of Arts and Juris Doctor
from Wayne State University and was admit-
ted to the Michigan State Bar.
Chairman Conyers began his legislative ca-
reer on the staff of the late Congressman
John Dingell and during this time he also
served as counsel to several Detroit-area
labor unions and was referee for Michigan’s
workmen’s compensation department.
In 1964, John Conyers was first elected to
represent the First Congressional District of
Michigan and was reelected to the succeeding
90th Congress and the following 15 Con-
gresses until he retired on December 5, 2017.
On the retirement of Congressman John
Dingell at the end of the 113th Congress in
December 2015, John Conyers became the
longest-serving Member of the United States
Congress, serving as Dean of the House from
January 3, 2015 until December 2017.
Mr. Speaker, John Conyers was also the
third longest-serving Member of the House in
history and the sixth longest-serving Member
of Congress in history; the second-longest
serving Member of either the House or Senate
in Michigan history, trailing only his former
boss, Congressman Dingell; and was the last
member of the large Democratic freshman
class of 1964 to serve in the House of Rep-
resentatives.
In the more than half century he served in
Congress, John Conyers was at the forefront
of most of the seminal moments in American
political history, such as working to enact into
law this partial list of landmark legislation:
Voting Rights of 1965, Title XVIII of the So-
cial Security Act (Medicare), Fair Housing Act
of 1968, Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Help
America Vote Act, Affordable Care Act, Dodd-
Frank Act, Americans With Disabilities Act, As-
sault Weapons Ban, Immigration Reform and
Control Act of 1982, Drug Kingpins Act, Fair
Chance Act.
Elementary and Secondary Education Act,
Social Security Amendments of 1965 (includ-
ing Medicaid and Medicare), Voting Rights Act
of 1965, Housing and Urban Development Act
of 1965, National Foundation on the Arts and
the Humanities Act, Immigration and Nation-
ality Act of 1965, Heart Disease, Cancer, and
Stroke Amendments, Freedom of Information
Act, Child Nutrition Act, National Historic Pres-
ervation Act, National Wildlife Refuge System
Administration Act, Foreign Gifts and Decora-
tions Act, Cuban Adjustment Act, Public Broad
casting Act of 1967.
Age Discrimination in Employment Act of
1967, Bilingual Education Act, Civil Rights Act
of 1968, Consumer Credit Protection Act, Na-
tional Trails System Act, Gun Control Act of
1968, National Environmental Policy Act, Or-
ganized Crime Control Act, including the
Racketeer, Influenced and Corrupt Organiza-
tions Act (‘‘RICO’’), Urban Mass Transpor-
tation Act of 1970, National Cancer Act, Fed-
eral Election Campaign Act, Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Act, War Powers Resolution,
Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act, District
of Columbia Home Rule Act, Endangered
Species Act, Congressional Budget and Im-
poundment Control Act of 1974, Legal Serv-
ices Corporation Act, Employee Retirement In-
come Security Act (ERISA), Juvenile Justice
and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974.
Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, National
Mass Transportation Assistance Act, Safe
Drinking Water Act, Privacy Act of 1974, Indi-
viduals with Disabilities Education Act, Copy-
right Act of 1976, Federal Land Policy and
Management Act, Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act, Water Resources Development
Act of 1976, National Forest Management Act.
The proposal to expand Medicare to all, a
political idea gaining increasing popularity
daily, was first introduced by John Conyers in
2003 as the United States National Health In-
surance Act.
John Conyers served on the Judiciary Com-
mittee that investigated Watergate and voted
articles of impeachment against President
Richard Nixon in August 1974.
John Conyers marched in the historic March
from Selma to Montgomery, Alabama, with Dr.
Martin Luther King Jr., and later employed civil
rights legend Rosa Parks in his congressional
office until her retirement in 1988.
John Conyers was loved by his constituents,
regularly winning reelection with 80 percent of
the vote or more.
John Conyers is one of the 13 founding
members of the Congressional Black Caucus
in 1971, which has worked diligently to
strengthen African-American lawmakers’ ability
to address the legislative concerns of African
American and minority citizens and has now
increased to 55 members in the House and
Senate, including myself.
While in Congress, John Conyers chaired
the prestigious House Judiciary Committee
from 1989–1995 and Oversight from 2007–
2011, the first African American to hold these
coveted positions.
Throughout his career, John Conyers used
his influence to push civil rights; in 1968, only
days after the assassination of the Rev. Dr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K28OC7.100 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8536 October 28, 2019
Martin Luther King Jr., Chairman Conyers
began a long and ultimately successful effort
to make Dr. King’s birthday a national holiday,
which was enacted in 1983.
John Conyers also cosponsored and worked
tirelessly to pass the Anti-Apartheid Act of
1986, which help topple South Africa’s system
of apartheid and free Nelson Mandela from
prison.
In the 101st Congress, John Conyers intro-
duced legislation to study the issue of repara-
tions for slavery and was the original sponsor
of H.R. 40, the Commission to Study and De-
velop Reparation Proposals for African-Ameri-
cans Act.
I am proud to have assumed principal spon-
sorship of this piece of landmark legislative
proposal and continuing the fight for justice.
John Conyers was dedicated to justice for
all, he supported legislation to generate the
Justice Department’s national study on police
brutality.
John Conyers was opposed to the imposi-
tion of the death penalty and began a series
of hearings on police brutality.
As Judiciary Committee Chairman, John
Conyers also worked to create and enlarge
federal death benefits for police officers and
firefighters who died in the line of duty.
Mr. Speaker, John Conyers dedicated his
life to serving his constituents and the citizens
of the United States; his persistence for justice
and his fight for equal rights is a testament to
his character.
Chairman John Conyers will live forever in
the hearts of the people of Detroit, his State
of Michigan, and the United States.
John Conyers was a legislative lion whose
presence will forever be missed, and we all
mourn his loss and extend our deepest sym-
pathies to his wife Monica, his children, and
family and friends who loved him so dearly,
my deepest sympathies go out to and I hope
you find consolation in the certain knowledge
that John is now resting peacefully.
f
SENATE BILLS REFERRED
Bills of the Senate of the following
titles were taken from the Speaker’s
table and, under the rule, referred as
follows:
S. 2065. An act to require the Secretary of
Homeland Security to publish an annual re-
port on the use of deepfake technology, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
S. 2107. An act to increase the number of
CBP Agriculture Specialists and support
staff in the Office of Field Operations of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Home-
land Security; in addition, to the Committee
on Agriculture for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 8 o’clock and 56 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Tues-
day, October 29, 2019, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
h
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 1865, the National Law Enforcement Museum Commemorative Coin
Act, as amended, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 1865
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2020–
2024
2024–
2029
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ...................................................................................................................................................................... 0 ¥5 ¥2 0 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 2423, the Women’s Suffrage Centennial Commemorative Coin Act, as
amended, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 2423
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2020–
2024
2024–
2029
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ...................................................................................................................................................................... ¥2 ¥1 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 2514, the COUNTER Act of 2019, as amended, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 2514
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2020–
2024
2024–
2029
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ...................................................................................................................................................................... 2 3 2 2 3 3 3 3 3 ¥24 13 0
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 3942, the Preventing Online Sales of E-Cigarettes to Children
Act, as amended, would have no significant effect on the deficit, and therefore, the budgetary effects of such bill are esti-
mated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, the attached estimate of the costs of H.R. 4067, the Financial Inclusion in Banking Act of 2019, as amended, for
printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 21:27 Oct 30, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\RECORD19\OCTOBER\H28OC9.REC H28OC9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8537
October 28, 2019
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 4067
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2020–
2024
2020–
2029
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ...................................................................................................................................................................... 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 ¥8 4 0
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YARMUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote on
passage, for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 4860, the Crowdfunding Amendments Act, as amended, would
have no significant effect on the deficit, and therefore, the budgetary effects of such bill are estimated as zero.
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
2763. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Education, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final regulations — Student Assist-
ance General Provisions, the Secretary’s
Recognition of Accrediting Agencies, the
Secretary’s Recognition Procedures for
State Agencies [Docket ID: ED-2018-OPE-
0076] (RIN: 1840-AD36; 1840-AD37) received Oc-
tober 24, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
2764. A letter from the Deputy General
Counsel for Ethic, Legislative Counsel and
Regulatory Services, Office of Postsecondary
Education, Department of Education, trans-
mitting the Department’s Major final regu-
lations — Student Assistance General Provi-
sions, the Secretary’s Recognition of Accred-
iting Agencies, the Secretary’s Recognition
Procedures for State Agencies [Docket ID:
ED-2018-OPE-0076] (RIN: 1840-AD36; 1840-
AD37) received October 24, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
2765. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting a
report titled ‘‘National Plan to Address Alz-
heimer’s Disease: 2019 Update’’, pursuant to
42 U.S.C. 11225(g); Public Law 111-375, Sec.
2(g); (124 Stat. 4102); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
2766. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting
the Transformed Medicaid Statistical Infor-
mation System Substance Use Disorder Data
Book, pursuant to Substance Use-Disorder
Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery
and Treatment for Patients and Commu-
nities Act, Public Law 115-271; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
2767. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting the Department’s final
rule — Information and Communication
Technology [Public Notice: 10775] (RIN: 1400-
AE35) received October 24, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
2768. A letter from the Counsel, Office of
Inspector General, Export-Import Bank of
the United States, transmitting a notifica-
tion of a nomination, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
3349(a); Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112 Stat.
2681-614); to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
2769. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by
Catcher Vessels Greater Than or Equal to 60
Feet Length Overall Using Pot Gear in the
Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Manage-
ment Area [Docket No.: 180713633-9174-02]
(RIN: 0648-XY038) received October 24, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
2770. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting the Department’s report
entitled, ‘‘Report on Denial of Visas to Con-
fiscators of American Property’’, for the pe-
riod from April 1, 2018, through March 31,
2019, pursuant to Sec. 2225(c) of the Foreign
Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of
1998, as contained in the Omnibus Consoli-
dated and Emergency Supplemental Appro-
priations Act 1999, Public Law 105-277, 8
U.S.C. 1182d; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
2771. A communication from the President
of the United States, transmitting a notifi-
cation of the intention to suspend the duty-
free treatment accorded to Thailand under
the Generalized System of Preferences pro-
gram, pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 2462(d)(3); Public
Law 93-618, Sec. 502(d)(3) (as added by Public
Law 104-188, Sec. 1952(a)); (110 Stat. 1917) (H.
Doc. No. 116—76); to the Committee on Ways
and Means and ordered to be printed.
2772. A letter from the Federal Register Li-
aison Officer, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and
Trade Bureau, Department of Treasury,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Establishment of the Eastern Connecticut
Highlands Viticultural Area [Docket No.:
TTB-2018-0010; T.D. TTB-157; Ref: Notice No.:
179] (RIN: 1513-AC41) received October 23,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
2773. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting a renewed determination that a pub-
lic health emergency exists nationwide as a
result of the consequences of the opioid cri-
sis, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 247d(a); July 1, 1944,
ch. 373, title III, Sec. 319(a) (as amended by
Public Law 107-188, Sec. 144(a)); (116 Stat.
630); jointly to the Committees on Energy
and Commerce and Ways and Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 359. A bill to provide for cer-
tain programs and developments in the De-
partment of Energy concerning the cyberse-
curity and vulnerabilities of, and physical
threats to, the electric grid, and for other
purposes (Rept. 116–254). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 362. A bill to amend the De-
partment of Energy Organization Act with
respect to functions assigned to Assistant
Secretaries, and for other purposes (Rept.
116–255). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 360. A bill to require the
Secretary of Energy to establish a voluntary
Cyber Sense program to test the cybersecu-
rity of products and technologies intended
for use in the bulk-power system, and for
other purposes (Rept. 116–256). Referred the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 1781. A bill to amend titles
XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act to
provide the Medicare Payment Advisory
Commission and the Medicaid and CHIP Pay-
ment and Access Commission with access to
certain drug payment information, including
certain rebate information; with an amend-
ment (Rept. 116–257, Pt. 1). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia: Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor. H.R. 4334. A bill to amend
the Older Americans Act of 1965 to authorize
appropriations for fiscal years 2020 through
2024, and for other purposes; with an amend-
ment (Rept. 116–258). Referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state of
the Union.
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 886. A bill to direct the Attorney
General to establish and carry out a Veteran
Treatment Court Program (Rept. 116–259).
Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 3942. A bill to apply requirements
relating to delivery sales of cigarettes to de-
livery sales of electronic nicotine delivery
systems, and for other purposes (Rept. 116–
260). Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. MCGOVERN: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 655. Resolution providing
for consideration of the resolution (H. Res.
296) affirming the United States record on
the Armenian Genocide (Rept. 116–263). Re-
ferred to the House Calendar.
Ms. SHALALA: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 656. Resolution providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 823) to pro-
vide for the designation of certain wilderness
areas, recreation management areas, and
conservation areas in the State of Colorado,
and for other purposes; providing for consid-
eration of the bill (H.R. 1373) to protect, for
current and future generations, the water-
shed, ecosystem, and cultural heritage of the
Grand Canyon region in the State of Ari-
zona, and for other purposes; providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 2181) to pro-
vide for the withdrawal and protection of
certain Federal land in the State of New
Mexico; and providing for proceedings during
the period from November 1, 2019, through
November 11, 2019 (Rept. 116–264). Referred to
the House Calendar.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on Ways and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:19 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.064 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8538 October 28, 2019
Means discharged from further consid-
eration. H.R. 1781 referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. MCHENRY (for himself and Ms.
WATERS):
H.R. 4860. A bill to amend the Securities
Act of 1933 to subject crowdfunding vehicles
to the jurisdiction of the Securities and Ex-
change Commission, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Financial Services.
considered and passed. considered and
passed.
By Mr. BILIRAKIS (for himself and Mr.
ENGEL):
H.R. 4861. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to establish a program to
improve the identification, assessment, and
treatment of patients in the emergency de-
partment who are at risk of suicide, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself and Mr.
WILSON of South Carolina):
H.R. 4862. A bill to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. WATERS (for herself, Mr. HECK,
Mr. SAN NICOLAS, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr.
MEEKS, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia,
Mr. CLAY, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr.
CLEAVER, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. FOS-
TER, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. VARGAS, Mr.
MCADAMS, Ms. WEXTON, Mr. LYNCH,
Ms. ADAMS, Ms. DEAN, Ms. GARCIA of
Texas, Mr. PHILLIPS, and Mr. STAN-
TON):
H.R. 4863. A bill to promote the competi-
tiveness of the United States, to reform and
reauthorize the United States Export Fi-
nance Agency, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Mr. CISNEROS, and Ms. MOORE):
H.R. 4864. A bill to develop and implement
policies to advance early childhood develop-
ment, to provide assistance for orphans and
other vulnerable children in developing
countries, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois
(for himself and Mr. WENSTRUP):
H.R. 4865. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to qualify homeless youth
and veterans who are full-time students for
purposes of the low income housing tax cred-
it; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. PALLONE (for himself and Mr.
GUTHRIE):
H.R. 4866. A bill to amend the 21st Century
Cures Act to provide for designation of insti-
tutions of higher education that provide re-
search, data, and leadership on continuous
manufacturing as National Centers of Excel-
lence in Continuous Pharmaceutical Manu-
facturing, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. NEWHOUSE (for himself, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, Mr. LARSEN of
Washington, Mrs. RODGERS of Wash-
ington, Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. HECK, Mr. KILMER, Ms.
JAYAPAL, and Ms. SCHRIER):
H.R. 4867. A bill to award a Congressional
Gold Medal to General James N. Mattis, in
recognition of his distinguished military ca-
reer, his steadfast moral character and patri-
otism, and his unyielding devotion to the
protection of this Nation; to the Committee
on Financial Services, and in addition to the
Committee on House Administration, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, and Mr. CHABOT):
H.R. 4868. A bill to certify that United
States assistance to the United Nations for
humanitarian programs in the Syrian Arab
Republic is not misdirected, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa:
H.R. 4869. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to remove all adverse cred-
it history related to a loan from the credit
history of a borrower who has rehabilitated
the loan; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. BURGESS (for himself and Ms.
ESHOO):
H.R. 4870. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act with respect to the Pub-
lic Health Service Corps; to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself and Mr.
CARSON of Indiana):
H.R. 4871. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to provide for efforts relating to
Move Over laws, to amend title 49, United
States Code, to require crash avoidance tech-
nology on motor vehicles, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure, and in addition to the
Committees on Energy and Commerce, and
Oversight and Reform, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr.
SIRES, Mr. SWALWELL of California,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. COHEN, Ms.
DEGETTE, and Mr. NADLER):
H.R. 4872. A bill to amend chapter 44 of
title 18, United States Code, to restrict the
ability of a person whose Federal license to
import, manufacture, or deal in firearms has
been revoked, whose application to renew
such a license has been denied, or who has
received a license revocation or renewal de-
nial notice, to transfer business inventory
firearms, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CROW (for himself, Mr. WALTZ,
Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. MOULTON, Mr.
BACON, and Mr. BLUMENAUER):
H.R. 4873. A bill to provide for special im-
migrant status for Syrian Kurds and other
Syrians who partnered with the United
States Government in Syria, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary, and in addition to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. DELGADO (for himself, Mrs.
BUSTOS, Ms. SPANBERGER, and Ms.
CRAIG):
H.R. 4874. A bill to amend the Department
of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 to
establish the Rural Innovation and Partner-
ship Administration and to amend the Con-
solidated Farm and Rural Development Act
to establish the Rural Future Partnership
Fund to invest in the rural areas of the
United States to achieve their preferred fu-
ture while maximizing their contribution to
the well-being of the United States, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, and in addition to the Committees
on Financial Services, and Energy and Com-
merce, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio (for him-
self, Mr. LATTA, Mr. WENSTRUP, Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. JORDAN, Ms.
FUDGE, Mr. TURNER, Mr. CHABOT, Mr.
STIVERS, Mr. RYAN, Mr. BALDERSON,
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio, Mr. JOHNSON
of Ohio, Mrs. BEATTY, Ms. KAPTUR,
and Mr. GIBBS):
H.R. 4875. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
2201 E. Maple Street in North Canton, Ohio,
as the ‘‘Lance Cpl. Stacy ’Annie’ Dryden
Post Office’’; to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
By Mr. KILMER (for himself and Ms.
BONAMICI):
H.R. 4876. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to establish a work-based
learning opportunities pilot grant program;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. LANGEVIN:
H.R. 4877. A bill to allow State manufac-
turing extension partnerships to award
grants to small- and medium-sized manufac-
turers for the purpose of training new work-
ers to replace departing experienced work-
ers; to the Committee on Science, Space, and
Technology.
By Mr. LAWSON of Florida:
H.R. 4878. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to carry out a major
medical facility project in Jacksonville,
Florida; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. LYNCH:
H.R. 4879. A bill to exempt certain officers
and employees of the Defense POW/MIA Ac-
counting Agency from furlough, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York (for herself, Mr. NADLER,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. ENGEL, and
Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ):
H.R. 4880. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to prohibit certain helicopter
flights over major cities with high popu-
lation densities, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. MARSHALL (for himself and
Mr. BRINDISI):
H.R. 4881. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to ensure that
consumers can make informed decisions in
choosing between meat products such as beef
and imitation meat products, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Committee
on Agriculture, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. MCCAUL:
H.R. 4882. A bill to authorize the Attorney
General to make grants to provide training
to improve police responses for people with
mental illness and intellectual and develop-
mental disabilities, to increase the author-
ization of appropriations for mental health
awareness training grants, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:19 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.031 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8539
October 28, 2019
By Mr. MCCAUL:
H.R. 4883. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to reauthorize and re-
name the Interagency Threat Assessment
and Coordination Group as the Joint
Counterterrorism Assessment Team; to the
Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Se-
lect), and in addition to the Committee on
Homeland Security, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL (for her-
self, Mr. CRIST, Ms. CASTOR of Flor-
ida, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and
Ms. SHALALA):
H.R. 4884. A bill to direct the Secretary of
State, in coordination with the Secretary of
Homeland Security, to reinstate the Cuban
Family Reunification Program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 4885. A bill to amend Public Law 87-
788 (commonly known as the McIntire-Sten-
nis Cooperative Forestry Act; 16 U.S.C. 582a-
7) to provide for equal treatment of the Dis-
trict of Columbia with respect to funds made
available under that Act; to the Committee
on Agriculture.
By Mr. PAPPAS (for himself and Mr.
RUTHERFORD):
H.R. 4886. A bill to amend the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to
establish the Adverse Childhood Experiences
Response Team grant program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself and
Mr. KING of New York):
H.R. 4887. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend the energy credit
for offshore wind facilities; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. SCHRADER (for himself, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. DEFAZIO, and Mr. BLU-
MENAUER):
H.R. 4888. A bill to amend the Grand Ronde
Reservation Act, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. STEUBE (for himself, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. BALDERSON, Mr. TUR-
NER, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr. YOHO, and
Mr. GAETZ):
H.R. 4889. A bill to improve communication
between the Federal Bureau of Investigation
and State law enforcement agencies; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. TAKANO (for himself, Mr.
VARGAS, and Mr. GRIJALVA):
H.R. 4890. A bill to provide benefits for
noncitizen members of the Armed Forces,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Veterans’ Affairs, and Armed
Services, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico (for herself, Mr. LUJÁN, Ms.
HAALAND, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr.
HURD of Texas, and Ms. DEGETTE):
H.R. 4891. A bill to provide for the conduct
of certain water security measures in the
Western United States, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, and in addition to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. WALKER:
H.R. 4892. A bill to establish a Department
of Homeland Security counterintelligence
vetting task force, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security.
By Ms. WILD:
H.R. 4893. A bill to provide for appropria-
tions for title I of the Child Abuse Preven-
tion and Treatment Act; to the Committee
on Education and Labor.
By Mr. BURCHETT (for himself, Mr.
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
DESJARLAIS, Mr. FERGUSON, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Ohio, Mr. GUEST, Mr. KEVIN
HERN of Oklahoma, Mr. RIGGLEMAN,
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr.
JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee, Mr.
KUSTOFF of Tennessee, Mr. ROY, Mr.
HAGEDORN, Mr. GIBBS, Mr. OLSON, Mr.
CURTIS, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr.
RUTHERFORD, and Mr. GUTHRIE):
H. Res. 657. A resolution amending the
Rules of the House of Representatives to re-
quire all transcripts and recordings sub-
mitted during a closed hearing of a com-
mittee be made available to all Members on
the same schedule and basis; to the Com-
mittee on Rules.
By Mr. CLAY:
H. Res. 658. A resolution expressing support
for the designation ‘‘Housing America
Month‘‘ and honoring the importance of af-
fordable housing and community develop-
ment programs and resources that allow
communities across the country to provide
access to safe, secure housing for all Ameri-
cans, regardless of income level; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. MCHENRY:
H.R. 4860.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence . . . of the United States; but all Du-
ties, Imposts, and Excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States.
By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
H.R. 4861.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to Article 1,
Section 8, Clause 18 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. DEUTCH:
H.R. 4862.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 section 8
By Ms. WATERS:
H.R. 4863.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 2, Section 8, Article I, relating to
regulating commerce with foreign Nations
and among the several states.
Clause 18, Section 8, Article I, relating to
making all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying out the powers
vessted by the Constitution in the Govern-
ment of the United States
By Mr. CASTRO of Texas:
H.R. 4864.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congressman Joaquin Castro
Constitutional Authority—Necessary and
Proper Clause (Art. I, Sec. 8, Clause 18)
THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
ARTICLE I, SECTION 8: POWERS OF
CONGRESS
CLAUSE 18
The Congress shall have power . . . To
make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the fore-
going powers, and all other powers vested by
this Constitution in the government of the
United States, or in any department or offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 4865.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. PALLONE:
H.R. 4866.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3, ‘‘To regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several states, and with the Indian
tribes’’
By Mr. NEWHOUSE:
H.R. 4867.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
H.R. 4868.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1.
By Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa:
H.R. 4869.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Taxing & Spending Clause (Art. I, § 8,
cl. 1)
The Necessary & Proper Clause (Art. I, § 8,
cl. 18)
By Mr. BURGESS:
H.R. 4870.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mrs. BUSTOS:
H.R. 4871.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 18 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 4872.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. CROW:
H.R. 4873.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8.
By Mr. DELGADO:
H.R. 4874.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1
By Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio:
H.R. 4875.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 7
By Mr. KILMER:
H.R. 4876.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L28OC7.100 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8540 October 28, 2019
By Mr. LANGEVIN:
H.R. 4877.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. LAWSON of Florida:
H.R. 4878.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘‘Article 1, Section 8: To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof’
By Mr. LYNCH:
H.R. 4879.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Art. I, Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 4880.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution which provides Congress with
the power to lay and collect taxes and regu-
late commerce among the several states.
By Mr. MARSHALL:
H.R. 4881.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 3 provides Con-
gress with the power to ‘‘regulate commerce
with foreign nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian tribes.’’
By Mr. MCCAUL:
H.R. 4882.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. MCCAUL:
H.R. 4883.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL:
H.R. 4884.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution [Page H2680]
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 4885.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
By Mr. PAPPAS:
H.R. 4886.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 Clause 10 provides Con-
gress with the power ‘‘to make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. PASCRELL:
H.R. 4887.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. SCHRADER:
H.R. 4888.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress has the authority to act under
Article I, § 8, clause 3—the Commerce Clause.
By Mr. STEUBE:
H.R. 4889.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States;
To borrow money on the credit of the
United States;
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes;
To establish an uniform Rule of Natu-
ralization, and uniform Laws on the subject
of Bankruptcies throughout the United
States;
To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof,
and of foreign Coin, and fix the Standard of
Weights and Measures;
To provide for the Punishment of counter-
feiting the Securities and current Coin of the
United States;
To establish Post Offices and Post Roads;
To promote the Progress of Science and
useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to
Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to
their respective Writings and Discoveries;
To constitute Tribunals inferior to the su-
preme Court;
and Offenses against the Law of Nations;
To declare War, grant Letters of Marque
and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning
Captures on Land and Water;
To raise and support Armies, but no Appro-
priation of Money to that Use shall be for a
longer Term than two Years;
To provide and maintain a Navy;
To make Rules for the Government and
Regulation of the land and naval Forces;
To provide for calling forth the Militia to
execute the Laws of the Union, suppress In-
surrections and repel Invasions;
To provide for organizing, arming, and dis-
ciplining, the Militia, and for governing such
Part of them as may be employed in the
Service of the United States, reserving to
the States respectively, the Appointment of
the Officers, and the Authority of training
the Militia according to the discipline pre-
scribed by Congress;
To exercise exclusive Legislation in all
Cases whatsoever, over such District (not ex-
ceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession
of particular States, and the acceptance of
Congress, become the Seat of the Govern-
ment of the United States, and to exercise
like Authority over all Places purchased by
the Consent of the Legislature of the State
in which the Same shall be, for the Erection
of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards,
and other needful Buildings; And
To make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. TAKANO:
H.R. 4890.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico:
H.R. 4891.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. WALKER:
H.R. 4892.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18 of the Con-
stitution, the Congress shall have Power to
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
the Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof
By Ms. WILD:
H.R. 4893.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 3: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr. PHILLIPS,
and Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 24: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 60: Mr. RICE of South Carolina.
H.R. 94: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 96: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 139: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 141: Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. CÁRDENAS,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, and Ms. CLARKE of
New York.
H.R. 155: Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana.
H.R. 486: Ms. NORTON and Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 510: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 553: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 566: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 586: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 587: Mrs. AXNE, Mr. DUNCAN, and Mr.
HAGEDORN.
H.R. 592: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 613: Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 647: Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 663: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 737: Mr. STEIL, Mr. MCADAMS, and Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 743: Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 767: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 838: Mr. TED LIEU of California and
Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 846: Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 849: Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. MENG, Mr.
EVANS, Ms. MCCOLLUM, and Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 865: Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 886: Mr. STAUBER.
H.R. 912: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mrs. BEATTY,
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Mr. CLYBURN, Mr. CUELLAR,
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr. JEFFRIES, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
NORCROSS, Mr. RICHMOND, Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER, Mr. STANTON, Ms. STEVENS, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. VELA, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr. RUSH, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Mr. CORREA, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr.
SUOZZI, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms. WATERS, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Ms. CLARK of Massa-
chusetts, Mr. HARDER of California, Ms.
TITUS, and Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 913: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 918: Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 927: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 934: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 935: Mr. TURNER and Mr. BACON.
H.R. 945: Mr. LARSON of Connecticut and
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 961: Mr. CUNNINGHAM, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. MCADAMS, Mr. CLAY, Mr.
CARSON of Indiana, Mr. SERRANO, and Mr.
TAKANO.
H.R. 976: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1002: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr.
GOMEZ, Mr. JEFFRIES, Ms. STEVENS, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr.
SIRES, Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. MCADAMS, Mr. SOTO, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
KINZINGER, Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
HECK, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mr. SERRANO, and Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 1030: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 1034: Mr. STEUBE.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:19 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.038 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8541
October 28, 2019
H.R. 1042: Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. SIRES, Ms. MATSUI,
Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. TONKO, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. ALLRED, Mr. MCADAMS, Mr.
KINZINGER, Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
HECK, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Ms. DELAURO,
Mr. SERRANO, Mr. KHANNA, and Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 1114: Mr. HORSFORD.
H.R. 1133: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 1139: Mr. YARMUTH and Mr. RUIZ.
H.R. 1154: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr.
CUELLAR, and Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 1161: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1171: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 1174: Ms. CRAIG and Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD.
H.R. 1179: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 1194: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 1220: Mr. NEAL.
H.R. 1294: Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 1299: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1303: Mr. WALDEN.
H.R. 1367: Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. O’HALLERAN,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr. LEVIN of
California, Mr. LUJÁN, and Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 1368: Ms. WATERS.
H.R. 1377: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 1380: Mr. HECK, Ms. ADAMS, Mr.
UPTON, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. MCADAMS, Mr.
BACON, and Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 1398: Mrs. MCBATH, Mr. EVANS, Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio, Mrs. MILLER, Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK, and Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
H.R. 1400: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 1418: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 1450: Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Ms. LEE of California, and Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER.
H.R. 1493: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 1521: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 1549: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER and Mr.
NEGUSE.
H.R. 1553: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 1554: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1570: Mr. MARSHALL and Mr.
NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 1588: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 1597: Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
THOMPSON of California, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr.
GOLDEN, Mrs. MILLER, Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr.
STEUBE, Mr. KIM, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr.
NEWHOUSE, Mrs. LOWEY, and Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER.
H.R. 1601: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 1643: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama and Mr.
COX of California.
H.R. 1684: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 1695: Ms. NORTON, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, and Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 1707: Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 1717: Ms. LEE of California, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, and Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 1724: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 1733: Mr. REED.
H.R. 1753: Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina.
H.R. 1754: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Ms.
STEVENS, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, Mr. SIRES, Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. STEIL,
Mr. TAKANO, Mr. ALLRED, Mr. MCADAMS, and
Mr. Luján.
H.R. 1765: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 1766: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. BARR, Mr. BRADY,
Mr. GIANFORTE, and Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 1767: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 1771: Mr. CASTRO of Texas.
H.R. 1786: Mr. NADLER and Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 1858: Mr. LAMALFA.
H.R. 1865: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H.R. 1869: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr. LYNCH, Mr.
LAMB, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Mr. SCHRADER, and Mr. WOMACK.
H.R. 1873: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
and Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 1943: Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 1948: Mr. NADLER and Mr. CROW.
H.R. 1953: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 1963: Mr. PAPPAS and Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 1970: Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H.R. 1975: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 1978: Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 1997: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 2006: Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 2013: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 2040: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 2086: Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 2096: Mr. SMITH of Washington and Mr.
COX of California.
H.R. 2115: Ms. SLOTKIN and Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 2117: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 2121: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 2137: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 2147: Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH, Ms. FOXX of
North Carolina, Mr. STEIL, Mr. GRAVES of
Georgia, Mr. ESTES, and Mr. MOONEY of West
Virginia.
H.R. 2153: Mr. CURTIS and Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 2158: Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee and
Mr. DUNN.
H.R. 2161: Mr. BUCSHON, Mr. BARR, and Mr.
DUNCAN.
H.R. 2191: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 2195: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 2199: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 2208: Mr. PASCRELL and Mr. SWALWELL
of California.
H.R. 2213: Mr. LAHOOD.
H.R. 2231: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 2250: Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, and Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 2264: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 2268: Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 2283: Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
LAMB, and Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 2311: Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 2315: Ms. HAALAND and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2328: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 2339: Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr. DESAULNIER,
Mr. BERA, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. TAKANO, and
Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 2382: Mr. LEWIS and Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 2423: Mr. BUCSHON.
H.R. 2441: Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. LUJÁN, and
Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 2449: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 2457: Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 2482: Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 2504: Mr. LONG and Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 2548: Mr. CRENSHAW and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 2581: Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 2585: Ms. MOORE, Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington, and Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 2599: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 2603: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2645: Mr. SUOZZI, Ms. WEXTON, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Ms.
WILSON of Florida, Mr. RYAN, Mr. GRIJALVA,
and Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2650: Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee.
H.R. 2653: Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Ms. MENG, and Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 2662: Mr. NEGUSE and Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ.
H.R. 2679: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 2681: Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, and Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 2694: Mr. KEATING, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
MEEKS, Mr. EVANS, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms. WIL-
SON of Florida, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, and
Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 2702: Mr. MCADAMS and Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 2711: Ms. BARRAGÁN and Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 2731: Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. HIMES,
Mr. BIGGS, and Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 2772: Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 2775: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 2795: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico.
H.R. 2808: Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 2854: Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 2903: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2937: Ms. CRAIG and Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 2941: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 2961: Mr. CLAY.
H.R. 2982: Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. MALINOWSKI,
and Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 2985: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, Mr.
VEASEY, Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, and Mr.
BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 2986: Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr.
COX of California, Ms. NORTON, Mrs. DINGELL,
and Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 2993: Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
and Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 3036: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 3048: Mr. BRADY.
H.R. 3062: Mr. FERGUSON.
H.R. 3115: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 3116: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 3138: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 3149: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana.
H.R. 3155: Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. TIPTON, Mr.
COMER, Mr. WEBSTER of Florida, Mr. ADER-
HOLT, Mr. CURTIS, Mr. ROSE of New York, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. OLSON, Mr. BURCHETT,
Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. LAHOOD, Mr. ROUZER,
Mrs. AXNE, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. DIAZ-BALART,
Mr. POSEY, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. HICE of Geor-
gia, Ms. FUDGE, Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr.
DESJARLAIS, Mr. MULLIN, Mr. LATTA, Mr.
FULCHER, Mr. SMITH of Missouri, Mr. GOH-
MERT, Mr. PALAZZO, Ms. SHERRILL, Mr. BRIN-
DISI, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. RIGGLEMAN,
Mr. HARDER of California, Mr. GUEST, Mr.
DELGADO, Mr. MCADAMS, Mr. TRONE, Mr.
ROUDA, Mr. PHILLIPS, Mr. MCHENRY, Mr.
NADLER, Mr. SIRES, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. DAVID
SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. KELLY of Pennsyl-
vania, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, and Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 3157: Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 3165: Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER and Mr.
POCAN.
H.R. 3193: Mr. MCNERNEY, Ms. MATSUI, and
Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 3195: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD and Mr.
KUSTOFF of Tennessee.
H.R. 3215: Mr. RASKIN and Mr. HIGGINS of
New York.
H.R. 3218: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 3243: Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. WITTMAN,
Mr. GUEST, and Mr. BIGGS.
H.R. 3249: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 3250: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 3281: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 3302: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 3330: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 3350: Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
MOOLENAAR, and Mr. BURGESS.
H.R. 3373: Mr. TRONE, Ms. NORTON, and Mr.
PALLONE.
H.R. 3396: Mr. VELA and Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada.
H.R. 3398: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 3456: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 3463: Mr. CLAY, Ms. MOORE, Mrs.
MCBATH, Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
CICILLINE, Ms. SPANBERGER, and Mr. BRIN-
DISI.
H.R. 3466: Mr. FERGUSON and Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 3498: Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 3503: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3509: Mr. MALINOWSKI and Mr. CART-
WRIGHT.
H.R. 3513: Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 3515: Mr. LAHOOD.
H.R. 3529: Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 3534: Mr. HARRIS.
H.R. 3541: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD and Ms.
BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 3561: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. LUETKEMEYER,
Mr. POSEY, and Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 3571: Mr. BABIN, Mr. CICILLINE, and
Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 3584: Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 3598: Mr. WALTZ, Mr. RYAN, Mrs.
TRAHAN, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. STANTON, and Ms.
NORTON.
H.R. 3612: Mr. YOUNG, Mr. SIRES, and Mr.
Garcı́a of Illinois.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.046 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8542 October 28, 2019
H.R. 3627: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 3657: Mr. TAYLOR and Mrs. MCBATH.
H.R. 3663: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 3708: Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 3712: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 3778: Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 3790: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 3795: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 3826: Mr. WESTERMAN.
H.R. 3844: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 3851: Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mrs. FLETCH-
ER, and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 3878: Mr. WALDEN.
H.R. 3884: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 3891: Mr. VELA.
H.R. 3896: Ms. DELAURO and Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 3927: Mr. WALDEN.
H.R. 3934: Mr. WILLIAMS.
H.R. 3953: Mr. MEEKS, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3956: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 3961: Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
FORTENBERRY, Mr. COX of California, Mrs.
FLETCHER, Mrs. AXNE, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. SOTO,
and Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 3972: Mr. LOUDERMILK.
H.R. 4009: Mr. BUCHANAN.
H.R. 4051: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 4092: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 4097: Ms. WILD, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Ms. KAPTUR, and Ms.
DELAURO.
H.R. 4098: Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina.
H.R. 4116: Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 4143: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 4144: Mrs. DAVIS of California and Mr.
LONG.
H.R. 4164: Mr. BIGGS.
H.R. 4165: Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. HAALAND, and
Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 4194: Mrs. LURIA, Ms. LOFGREN, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, Ms. LEE of California,
and Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 4204: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 4211: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 4216: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 4220: Mr. GRIJALVA and Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 4230: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 4236: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 4243: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 4248: Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 4266: Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 4280: Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. KHANNA, and
Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 4283: Mr. GROTHMAN and Mr.
MOOLENAAR.
H.R. 4296: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 4304: Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
CHABOT, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr. ROGERS of
Alabama, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. CARTER of
Texas, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER,
Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, and Mr. LATTA.
H.R. 4334: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia and
Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 4339: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 4341: Ms. SPANBERGER, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
and Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 4343: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 4348: Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
HECK, and Mr. RICHMOND.
H.R. 4385: Mr. HAGEDORN.
H.R. 4399: Mr. BUCSHON.
H.R. 4410: Mr. STAUBER.
H.R. 4421: Mr. NEAL.
H.R. 4426: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 4429: Mr. EVANS and Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT
of Georgia.
H.R. 4436: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 4468: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 4492: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 4508: Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. OMAR, and
Mr. DIAZ-BALART.
H.R. 4516: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 4519: Mr. SERRANO, Ms. HERRERA
BEUTLER, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. RUSH, and Mr.
ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 4526: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 4527: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 4554: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 4555: Mr. POCAN and Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 4595: Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 4607: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 4615: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 4621: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 4624: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 4634: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Ms.
PORTER, Ms. NORTON, Mr. BEYER, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr. SAN
NICOLAS, Mr. MORELLE, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
SUOZZI, Ms. MENG, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. TONKO,
Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. PALLONE, and Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 4640: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 4665: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 4666: Mr. SAN NICOLAS.
H.R. 4672: Mr. CORREA, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, and Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 4674: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
VELA, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, Mr. LOWENTHAL, and Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 4679: Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 4691: Mr. KHANNA, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, and Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 4695: Ms. TITUS, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr.
COX of California, Mr. SARBANES, Ms. ESHOO,
Mr. RASKIN, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. SHERRILL,
Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. HECK, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr.
SCHIFF, Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Ms.
TORRES SMALL of New Mexico, Mr. LEVIN of
California, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. BROWN of Maryland,
Mr. RYAN, Mr. FORTENBERRY, and Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 4697: Mr. PAYNE, Mr. SOTO, Ms. CLARK
of Massachusetts, Ms. MENG, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr.
NEGUSE, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mrs. LOWEY,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, and Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 4698: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 4701: Mr. HASTINGS and Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 4705: Ms. MOORE, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER,
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, and Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 4722: Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. LAMB, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Mrs. LURIA, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mr. DESAULNIER, and Mr. HECK.
H.R. 4723: Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 4730: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 4732: Ms. NORTON, Mr. GRIJALVA, and
Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 4736: Mr. WALDEN, Mr. HAGEDORN, and
Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 4738: Mr. FORTENBERRY and Mr. WITT-
MAN.
H.R. 4754: Ms. SPEIER, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio,
Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. BACON, Mr.
WRIGHT, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. WEBER of Texas,
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. CHABOT, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr. GAL-
LAGHER, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. GOODEN, Mr.
LAMALFA, and Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 4764: Mr. ADERHOLT and Mr. WALDEN.
H.R. 4768: Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 4781: Ms. MATSUI and Mr. BERA.
H.R. 4789: Mr. BABIN.
H.R. 4794: Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr. SERRANO, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mrs. LOWEY, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. REED, and Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 4801: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr. BISHOP
of Georgia.
H.R. 4806: Mr. WALDEN.
H.R. 4812: Mr. WALDEN.
H.R. 4814: Mr. WALDEN.
H.R. 4822: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr.
RYAN, and Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 4823: Mr. FOSTER, Mr. TONKO, and Mr.
QUIGLEY.
H.R. 4824: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 4827: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 4841: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 4842: Mr. MCCAUL.
H.R. 4843: Mr. RASKIN and Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 4851: Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. POCAN.
H.J. Res. 4: Mr. POSEY.
H. Con. Res. 10: Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr.
LAMALFA, Mrs. AXNE, Mr. MASSIE, and Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia.
H. Con. Res. 15: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H. Con. Res. 20: Mr. MURPHY of North Caro-
lina.
H. Con. Res. 28: Mr. KHANNA.
H. Con. Res. 30: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H. Con. Res. 37: Ms. NORTON, Mr. ALLEN,
Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. BALDERSON, Mr.
KING of New York, and Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H. Res. 49: Mrs. WAGNER.
H. Res. 60: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H. Res. 69: Mr. FORTENBERRY.
H. Res. 189: Mr. MEEKS, Mr. CRENSHAW, Ms.
SLOTKIN, Ms. CRAIG, Mrs. BUSTOS, and Mr.
ENGEL.
H. Res. 230: Mr. MEEKS.
H. Res. 242: Mr. YARMUTH.
H. Res. 255: Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee, Mr.
GRIFFITH, Mr. TRONE, and Mr. KELLY of Mis-
sissippi.
H. Res. 276: Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H. Res. 296: Mr. THOMPSON of California,
Mr. KILDEE, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. DA-
VIDSON of Ohio, Mr. SWALWELL of California,
Ms. MATSUI, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. COOPER,
Ms. DEAN, Mr. CRIST, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. RICH-
MOND, Mr. SABLAN, Mr. TAYLOR, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. SLOTKIN, Ms. WATERS, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Mr. HURD of Texas, and
Ms. NORTON.
H. Res. 349: Mr. LONG, Mr. GALLEGO, Mrs.
MILLER, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. BERA, Mr.
CHABOT, Mr. GOODEN, Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, and Mr. PHILLIPS.
H. Res. 410: Ms. LEE of California, Mr. TED
LIEU of California, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Ms. HAALAND, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. SÁNCHEZ,
Mr. MCCAUL, and Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H. Res. 442: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H. Res. 446: Mr. BACON, Mr. STIVERS, Mr.
COLE, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr. LUETKEMEYER,
Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr. CARBAJAL,
Ms. WILD, Mr. CHABOT, and Mrs. WAGNER.
H. Res. 467: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H. Res. 512: Mr. SENSENBRENNER and Ms.
WILD.
H. Res. 515: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H. Res. 546: Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms.
TITUS, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE
of Pennsylvania, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, and
Mr. MCGOVERN.
H. Res. 585: Mr. PHILLIPS, Mr. SMITH of New
Jersey, Mr. COSTA, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, and
Mr. MEEKS.
H. Res. 639: Mr. WEBSTER of Florida, Mr.
SPANO, Mr. CLINE, Mr. BRADY, Mr. JOHN W.
ROSE of Tennessee, Mr. JOHNSON of South
Dakota, and Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H. Res. 641: Mr. SOTO, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms.
HAALAND, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, and Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ.
H. Res. 654: Ms. BASS, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr.
MEEKS, and Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
f
DELETIONS OF SPONSORS FROM
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were deleted from public bills and reso-
lutions, as follows:
H.R. 3495: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. HARD-
ER of California, and Ms. WILSON of Florida.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:19 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC7.051 H28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6179
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2019 No. 170
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray. Eternal God, in spite of
our shortcomings, you have promised
never to forsake us. In this decisive
season of our Nation’s history, give our
lawmakers wisdom and courage. May
they remember that history is a faith-
ful stenographer who will judge their
words and deeds in the shining light of
truth.
Lord, provide our Senators with the
grace to glorify You, as they remember
You have appointed them for this mo-
ment in time. And Lord, we thank You
for the courage and professionalism of
the men and women in our Nation’s
military. We also thank You for the
life and legacy of Senator Kay Hagan.
We pray in Your great Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak in morn-
ing business for 1 minute.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, poll-
ing consistently shows that lowering
the cost of prescription drugs is a top
priority for Americans. That is why I
hope we can act on this pressing issue
in the coming months. A failure to act
would be remembered by Americans.
This week, the Democratic House is
poised to pass a bill. There are many
problems with that legislation, and it
doesn’t stand a chance of passage in
the Senate. Thankfully, we have bipar-
tisan legislation in the House-titled
‘‘Prescription Drug Pricing Reduction
Act’’ that President Trump supports
and has a clear path to being signed
into law. We need the full Senate to act
on this legislation. Republicans should
not want to be the party that failed to
act.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE,
AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOP-
MENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMIN-
ISTRATION, INTERIOR, ENVIRON-
MENT, MILITARY CONSTRUC-
TION, VETERANS AFFAIRS,
TRANSPORTATION, AND HOUSING
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of H.R. 3055, which
the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
Making appropriations for the Depart-
ments of Commerce and Justice, Science,
and Related Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other pur-
poses.
Pending:
Shelby amendment No. 948, in the nature
of a substitute.
McConnell (for Shelby) amendment No.
950, to make a technical correction.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
first, I was saddened by today’s news
that our former colleague, the Senator
from North Carolina, Kay Hagan, had
passed away. During her time rep-
resenting the people of North Carolina,
Kay was exactly that—a gentle lady.
She paired an earnest commitment to
public service with a friendly and colle-
gial approach. I know Members of both
sides of the aisle will fondly remember
serving alongside her in the Senate,
and her perseverance in the face of se-
rious illness these recent years was in-
spiring.
Today the prayers of this entire body
are with Kay’s husband, Chip; their
children, Jeanette, Tilden, and Carrie;
and with all of their family and friends
at this extremely difficult time.
DEATH OF ABU BAKR AL-BAGHDADI
Mr. President, on a completely dif-
ferent matter, on Sunday morning, we
woke up to a better and safer world be-
cause one monster was no longer in it.
Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi was the founder
and leader of ISIS. In recent years,
that made him the single most impor-
tant target in the fight against radical
Islamic terrorism.
His band of fanatics has committed
heinous crimes, shed an unimaginable
amount of civilian blood, and desta-
bilized an entire region. ISIS has been
party to a civil war in Syria that has
claimed hundreds of thousands of inno-
cent lives. They have run slave auc-
tions of women and girls and effected a
genocide of the Yazidi people.
Across a swath of Syria and Iraq,
ISIS established a so-called caliphate,
imprisoned entire communities,
slaughtered vulnerable minority popu-
lations, destroyed priceless cultural
relics, and imposed their will through
brute force on anyone they deemed in-
sufficiently pious. Across the globe,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:11 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.000 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6180 October 28, 2019
their message of hate has spurred fur-
ther acts of violence—in Europe, in Af-
rica, and even here on American soil.
So Americans applauded President
Trump’s announcement yesterday
morning that a heroic mission had
eliminated the chief instigator of all
this violence. We owe a debt of thanks
to the men and women of our intel-
ligence community for taking grave
risks, cultivating key partnerships in
the region, and laying the groundwork
for a swift and precise operation.
Of course, we are hugely grateful to
the U.S. military personnel who exe-
cuted the strike. Our Nation calls upon
elite Special Operations units to take
on missions of the utmost sensitivity.
Their bravery and professionalism con-
tinue to make us all proud.
My fellow Kentuckians and I are es-
pecially proud of Lt. Gen. Scott How-
ell, a Cadiz, KY native, is currently
leading the Joint Special Operations
Command and oversaw this daring mis-
sion.
Lieutenant General Howell is a ca-
reer Air Force pilot who has spent his
career deploying with and commanding
Special Operations forces. Our Nation
is lucky to have this son of the Blue-
grass serving where he is.
I commend President Trump, Sec-
retary Esper, and the entire adminis-
tration team for making the tough call
to act on our intelligence and send U.S.
Forces into the breach. That decision
is never easy, but it was the right one.
It was a total operational success.
This victory offers us an important
strategic reminder about the value of
our Nation’s investment in advanced
military capabilities, American mili-
tary presence abroad, and deep rela-
tionships with foreign allies and local
security partners. Without such fac-
tors, operations such as this become
much more risky.
The name of this terrorist is now
headed straight for the trash bin of his-
tory. There are other names I would
like for us to remember today instead:
Peter Kassig, born and raised in Indi-
anapolis, a former Army Ranger turned
humanitarian worker in the Middle
East. ISIS beheaded him in 2014. He
was 26 years old.
Steven Sotloff, a grandson of Holo-
caust survivors born in Florida and a
dual citizen of the U.S. and Israel. He
was a journalist who worked with refu-
gees fleeing the Syrian civil war. He
was kidnapped by ISIS and beheaded in
2014.
James Foley grew up in New Hamp-
shire. He spent 4 years as an embedded
correspondent in Afghanistan, Libya,
and Syria before his capture by ISIS.
After 2 years of captivity and torture,
he, too, was beheaded in 2014.
Kayla Mueller from Arizona, whom
ISIS kidnapped in Aleppo in 2013.
Kayla’s Christian faith had led her to
humanitarian work. She was brutalized
by ISIS leaders and then killed in 2015,
at the age of 26. This weekend’s oper-
ation was code-named in Kayla’s
honor.
Today we remember these brave
Americans and all the courageous U.S.
servicemembers and DOD civilians who
gave their lives to fight ISIS. In their
memories, we are glad justice has been
done. In their memories, we resolve not
to back down but to persist in this
fight until we have secured the endur-
ing defeat of this dangerous and deter-
mined enemy.
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
Mr. President, on another matter, on
Thursday, the chairman of the Judici-
ary Committee and I introduced a reso-
lution, which quickly gained dozens of
Republican cosponsors. Our resolution
states two things, which are very obvi-
ous. No. 1, any process as serious as an
impeachment inquiry, which seeks to
cancel out the American people’s vote
in a Presidential election, must adhere
to the highest standards of fairness and
due process, and, No. 2, what we have
seen on display from House Democrats
has been anything but that.
Here is the way House Democrats
have conducted their inquiry so far.
Committees at the center of the in-
quiry have denied President Trump im-
portant rights and protections that
President Nixon and President Clinton
enjoyed. They have impeded his right
to have counsel attend hearings and
depositions, call and cross-examine
witnesses, and even access the evidence
they are producing.
Democrats are also flouting past
practices that gave minority parties
basic procedural rights during past im-
peachments. House Republicans have
not been granted subpoena power, and
their participation in closed-door pro-
ceedings has been severely limited.
It is no secret that Washington
Democrats have been looking for a way
to remove President Trump since his
inauguration, but that does not remove
the basic requirements of fairness and
due process.
That is what our resolution makes
clear. I am proud to sponsor it, along
with Chairman GRAHAM.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. President, on a related matter,
Washington Democrats have been in-
sisting that their 3-year-old impeach-
ment journey will not keep them from
attending to the people’s business.
Well, we will have an opportunity to
find out later this week when the Sen-
ate votes on advancing funding for our
Armed Forces.
You will recall that last month, our
Democratic colleagues made the stun-
ning decision to filibuster legislation
to fund our national defense. They
blocked resources for our men and
women in uniform. They blocked the
funding our commanders need to keep
us safe in this dangerous time. And
that wasn’t enough. They blocked a
pay raise for the men and women in
uniform. Democrats filibustered all of
this for the sake of picking a fight with
the White House. Think about that.
Can our colleagues be so ruled by par-
tisan politics that they would rather
leave the U.S. military in limbo than
get along with President Trump for 2
minutes—for 2 minutes?
Obviously this cannot continue. Our
commanders need funding. Our men
and women in military need support.
Congress needs to do its job. So later
this week, the Senate is going to vote
again, one more time, to advance de-
fense funding. We will complete the do-
mestic appropriations we are currently
considering, including voting on cer-
tain amendments, and then we will
turn back to defense. This will present
a crystal-clear test: Do our Democratic
colleagues mean it when they say they
want to legislate or not—there is no
more important legislation than this—
or is their impeachment obsession
crowding out critical priorities?
Imagine the spectacle if the same
Senate Democrats who give lengthy
speeches criticizing the administra-
tion’s actions in Syria and the Middle
East literally block the funding our
commanders need to keep up the mis-
sions. Imagine the embarrassment if
Senate Democrats filibuster funding
for our men and women in uniform just
days after this past weekend’s heroics,
just days after the whole country was
reminded that our brave servicemem-
bers risk everything every day, and
their missions do not wait for Wash-
ington politics. Imagine the supreme
irony if the same Democrats who want
to impeach the President for sup-
posedly delaying military assistance
for Ukraine literally themselves delay
military assistance for Ukraine by
blocking the funding legislation.
I urge my friends across the aisle to
do the right thing. The whole country
knows that Washington Democrats are
not members of President Trump’s fan
club. We get that. We understand that.
But there is no reason why money to
fight ISIS, money to pay and supply
our servicemembers, and, yes, money
for military assistance for Ukraine
ought to be used as Democrats’ polit-
ical pawns.
Enough is enough. We need to move
forward with the Defense funding bill
this week.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the order for the quorum call
be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
REMEMBERING KAY HAGAN
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, the
Scripture tells us that ‘‘the Lord is
close to the brokenhearted,’’ in Psalm
34:18. I pray those words are true, be-
cause we lost a Member of the Senate
family today and many of us have lost
a dear friend. We are brokenhearted at
the news that Senator Kay Hagan
passed away at the age of 66.
I spoke to her husband Chip a few
hours ago, and I told him that from the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:11 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28OC6.002 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6181
October 28, 2019
first moment I met Kay Hagan, she was
special. She remained that way every
day since. She was an amazing force—
never loud but always strong, effective,
hard-working, dedicated, principled,
and just a kindhearted person.
He told me that he and Kay had just
had a wonderful weekend, a dinner, a
wedding, surrounded by friends and
family. She even got to spend some
time with Joe Biden, who was in town.
Chip said she was just beaming.
I take some comfort in knowing that.
In fact, it reminded me of how Kay
lived her life. She was never one to let
the sometimes painful realities of life
in politics get her down. I knew Kay
for over a decade, as a State senator, a
candidate, a brilliant Senator, and a
former Senator who returned to pri-
vate life without an ounce of regret or
ill-will.
In all that time, I never heard her
once—never heard her once—complain.
She was never sour, sarcastic, or de-
jected. She remained always to her last
day a cheerful optimist, a happy war-
rior.
It is only one of the many reasons
that Kay Hagan was beloved by Mem-
bers on this side of the aisle and I be-
lieve by a great number of those on the
other side as well. Boy, do we miss her.
My heart goes out to Chip, to their
three kids—Jeanette, Tilden, and
Carrie—and their wonderful grand-
children, of whom Kay was so proud
and loved.
DEATH OF ABU BAKR AL-BAGHDADI
Mr. President, on another subject,
yesterday morning it was announced
that U.S. Special Operations Forces
killed Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the lead-
er of the Islamic State. The death of al-
Baghdadi is a great victory for the
safety of our country and the safety of
our allies and partners. All Americans
salute the Special Operations Forces
who executed this mission, the intel-
ligence community of professionals,
whose work helped to enable the mis-
sion, and our allies and partners, par-
ticularly, the Syrian Kurds, who have
contributed to the global coalition to
defeat ISIS.
Despite this great victory, however,
we must not confuse the death of this
one very evil man with the defeat of
ISIS. There are still potentially hun-
dreds of ISIS prisoners and sympa-
thizers who have escaped in recent
weeks as a result of President Trump’s
abrupt decision to withdraw American
troops from northern Syria and green-
light Erdogan’s invasion. We cannot
allow ISIS to regroup or gather
strength. New Yorkers know all too
well the destruction a small group of
terrorists can cause from half a world
away.
Make no mistake, we still need a
plan for the enduring defeat of ISIS.
They are not gone. We must include de-
tails on how we will deal with escaped
prisoners. Nobody knows. These are
evil people. They want to hurt us, and
they can escape from the prisons, and
Lord knows where they will go. But we
know a good chunk of them will want
to do damage to our homeland.
So far, the administration, unfortu-
nately, has articulated no coherent
plan. Its top officials, Secretary
Pompeo and Secretary Esper, seem un-
able to find time to even brief Con-
gress, in all likelihood because they
have nothing real to say, no plan. For
almost a month now, we have been re-
questing an all-Senators briefing from
the administration on its Syria policy.
That is the bare minimum we expect
from the administration when it comes
to major policy decisions. Yet we have
had two briefings scheduled and then
canceled, and we still cannot get the
Department of Defense or the Depart-
ment of State to commit to a time for
those Secretaries to brief Congress.
According to reports, the Trump ad-
ministration gave Russia and Turkey
some kind of advanced notice of the
raid of al-Baghdadi, but, seemingly, by
deliberate choice neglected to notify
the leaders of Congress, as is custom in
this case.
Based on the President’s remarks
yesterday, it seems he may have made
a solitary exception for the chairman
of the Senate Judiciary Committee.
That is not what the Founders envi-
sioned when they imagined Congress
and the executive branch working to-
gether to conduct the Nation’s foreign
policy. It seems clear that the Trump
administration is either reluctant or
simply unwilling to keep Congress in
the loop on its plan to defeat ISIS and
protect American interest in the re-
gion. The most likely explanation, un-
fortunately, is that it does not have
one.
This needs to change. There needs to
be a plan. There needs to be some ac-
countability to Congress. We need to
hear from Secretaries Pompeo and
Esper in Congress this week.
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
Mr. President, now on another mat-
ter, as the House of Representatives
continues to do its constitutional duty
to conduct oversight of any wrong-
doing by the executive branch, our Re-
publican colleagues in both Chambers
have made great pains to make its
‘‘process’’ an issue. A group of House
Republicans stormed the secure facil-
ity in the Capitol to highlight the pur-
ported secrecy of the process. It was
later revealed that fully one-third of
those Members were already allowed in
the closed hearings. Here in the Sen-
ate, Senator GRAHAM introduced a res-
olution with a list of trumped-up com-
plaints about the House process, and I
just heard my friend the Republican
leader talk about the process in his
opening remarks.
Now, I am going to say something
that might surprise everyone listening
out there. I actually agree with what
President Trump said this morning
about the impeachment inquiry in the
House. The President said, ‘‘I’d rather
go into the details of the case rather
than the process,’’ adding, ‘‘I think you
ought to look at the case.’’ The Presi-
dent—the President—himself is saying
all this stuff about process is a diver-
sion.
Look at the substance. We want to
look at the substance. That is what the
House is doing. That is what our Re-
publican friends—those who in a fit of
rage or whatever stormed the House
committee room, that is what so many
of our colleagues on this side of the
aisle are doing, just focusing on process
because they are afraid to focus on sub-
stance and how wrong it was—what the
President did, if the facts prove he did
it, which I believe the House is looking
at.
So let’s not forget the impeachment
inquiry stems from a very serious alle-
gation that President Trump pressured
a foreign leader to investigate a domes-
tic political rival. Allegations were
deemed credible and an urgent concern
by a Trump appointee. Allegations
have been further corroborated by the
memorandum of conversation released
by the White House, testimony gath-
ered by the House, and public com-
ments made by no one less than the
President’s chief of staff.
We have a responsibility—a responsi-
bility, a constitutional responsibility—
to grapple with the facts in the public
record and ultimately make judgments
based on the merits of the case. So the
President of the United States, in this
case, happens to be right. Congres-
sional Republicans in the House and
Senate should focus on the details of
the case rather than the process.
HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS
Mr. President, another subject, later
this week, Senate Democrats will again
use their authority under the Congres-
sional Review Act to force a crucial
vote on the future of healthcare protec-
tions for Americans with preexisting
conditions. The Trump administration
has done nearly everything imaginable
to undermine these protections over
the past 3 years, including by suing to
repeal our healthcare law in its en-
tirety. This vote concerns the adminis-
tration’s expansion of junk insurance
plans, which offer ways around the re-
quirements to cover Americans when
they need healthcare most. This rule
gives States the green light to use tax-
payer dollars to buy junk insurance
plans.
Oftentimes, the plans are so skimpy
they hardly cover anything at all.
They are barely worth the paper they
are written on. Imagine you are the
mother or father of a child with cancer
and you sign one of these plans, and
the insurance company says we don’t
have to take care of your kid for some-
thing as devastating and as life-threat-
ening as cancer. Imagine how you
would feel.
Yet our Republican friends and this
administration want to give insurance
companies the green light to make a
ton of money and write this junk—junk
insurance—and have hundreds of thou-
sands—millions of Americans not cov-
ered for even the most important and
vital of coverages.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:11 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28OC6.004 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6182 October 28, 2019
Well, that is what is at stake this
week. The Senate will vote. Repub-
licans will have to go on record to ei-
ther defend the administration’s ac-
tions or protect Americans who have
preexisting conditions.
I know several of my Republican col-
leagues publicly declared their support
for these protections when they have
their campaign ads going. That hasn’t
been the case here in Congress where
Republicans have repeatedly voted
against the same protections. Wednes-
day will be another important test for
Senate Republicans.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Finally, Mr. President, on climate.
On Friday, I announced a new proposal
to rapidly phase out gas-powered vehi-
cles and replace them with clean vehi-
cles like electric cars. The goal of the
plan, which also aims to spur a trans-
formation in American manufacturing,
is that, by 2040, all vehicles on the road
should be clean.
We need a plan of this scale and am-
bition to fight one of the largest driv-
ers of carbon emissions—transpor-
tation—which account for over one-
third of America’s carbon output. Sci-
entists now tell us that, to avoid the
most devastating effects of climate
change, the world needs to be carbon
neutral by mid-century. At the mo-
ment, we are not on track even re-
motely to meet that target.
So we must act urgently and ambi-
tiously, which requires building diverse
coalitions of support. What distin-
guished my proposal is not only its
scale, but its ability to unite the Amer-
ican environmental movement, the
American labor movement, and large
automakers. Listen to who is sup-
porting this proposal: the Sierra Club,
the Natural Resources Defense Council,
the League of Conservation Voters, and
labor unions like the United Auto-
mobile Workers, the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the
AFL–CIO, and car manufacturers like
Ford and General Motors. When have
we ever seen the car manufacturers and
the unions and the environmentalists
agree on a major proposal that will
stop carbon from poisoning our atmos-
phere? Well, here it is.
How would this plan work? First, it
would provide a large discount on an
American-made vehicle when drivers
trade in a gas-powered car. Second, it
would provide grants to States and cit-
ies to build charging stations with a
particular emphasis on low-income,
rural, and underserved communities.
Third, the plan aims to establish the
U.S. as the global leader in electric ve-
hicle and battery manufacturing by
providing grants to retool existing
manufacturing plants in the United
States and build new ones in this coun-
try that specialize in those tech-
nologies.
It will clean our atmosphere, save
families money; the cost of these cars
will be less than the cost of maintain-
ing a gasoline-driven vehicle, and it
will establish America once again as
the preeminent automobile power as
electric cars become the way of the fu-
ture.
Critics say that acting on climate
change has cost us jobs and money. It
is simply not true. My plan is actually
estimated to create tens of thousands
of new jobs, good-paying jobs right
here in the U.S. Much as America expe-
rienced a revolution in auto manufac-
turing at the outset of the 20th cen-
tury, America under this plan will ex-
perience a revolution in clean auto
manufacturing at the beginning of this
century, but if we are to reach our
goal, we have to move fast. China now
accounts for more than half the world’s
electric vehicle market, and if we don’t
match the level of China’s commit-
ment, we are going to miss a tremen-
dous opportunity. We have missed too
many already.
If Democrats win control of the Sen-
ate in 2020, I as majority leader will in-
troduce bold and far-reaching climate
legislation. This proposal for clean cars
would be a key element of that bill.
This is about American jobs, Amer-
ican global economic leadership, and
protecting our dear planet. Nothing,
nothing could be more worthy of pur-
suing.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
ERNST). The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NATIONAL SECURITY
Mr. GRASSLEY. In March of 2015, I
began our long investigation into Sec-
retary Clinton’s use of nongovernment
email for official business. Since then,
I have written hundreds of letters, held
hearings, and discussed my findings
and concerns right here on the Senate
floor. After all, the public’s business
ought to be public.
Today, we can add more findings to
that ongoing list of Secretary Clinton’s
and her associates’ wrongful conduct.
The other week I released a report
from the State Department that final-
ized their administrative review of how
Secretary Clinton’s private server
setup caused hundreds of security vio-
lations. That review found five things I
am going to mention.
First, 91 valid security violations
were identified and attributable to 38
individuals. That means 38 individuals
mishandled classified information and
were punished for it. The sanctions for
a violation included suspension or rev-
ocation of their security clearance,
suspension without pay, or termi-
nation, among other forms of punish-
ment.
Second, an additional 497 valid viola-
tions were identified. However, the
State Department was unable to deter-
mine who was culpable. The State De-
partment was unable to identify culpa-
bility because some former Depart-
ment employees didn’t sit for inter-
views or because Secretary Clinton
kept her server secret from govern-
ment officials, so it was impossible for
the Department to monitor security
protocol in realtime.
The review also noted that there was
a 5- to 9-year gap between the begin-
ning of Secretary Clinton’s State De-
partment tenure when the security in-
cidents began and when she finally
turned over the emails, which she ini-
tially refused to do.
This many yearslong gap made it
very challenging to determine who was
culpable for every violation of regula-
tion and law covering national security
issues and the need for classification.
In total, Secretary Clinton’s use of a
nongovernment server for government
business caused 588 security violations
for mishandling classified information.
Some of that classified information
was classified at the very highest lev-
els, including Top Secret/Special Ac-
cess Program information.
According to the FBI, Secretary Clin-
ton sent and received emails that con-
tained highly classified information. It
is hard to fathom how this wouldn’t
undermine our national security. If the
average American did that, they would
lose their clearance, their job, and
might even go to jail.
That is what happened to Navy sailor
Kristian Saucier. He took six photo-
graphs inside his submarine that ex-
posed information classified at the con-
fidential level. He mishandled classi-
fied information. He pled guilty and
was sentenced to 1 year in Federal pris-
on.
So people ask me: How come some
people go to prison for violating classi-
fication and other people don’t?
Let’s go to the third point. The re-
view found Secretary Clinton’s non-
governmental server increased the risk
of unauthorized disclosures.
Fourth, the review found that the
nongovernment server increased the
risk of security compromises.
Clinton’s private server setup had
been described as being so badly se-
cured that it was almost impossible to
detect who had attempted to attack it
and gain access to it. Anyone could
have done it.
Fifth and last, the review found that
some classified information was delib-
erately transmitted via unclassified
emails and resulted in adjudicated se-
curity violations.
Many in the press, as well as partisan
Clinton defenders, have hung their hats
on the State Department’s finding that
there was ‘‘no persuasive evidence of
systemic, deliberate mishandling of
classified information.’’
Take, for example, the Washington
Post. Their headline was ‘‘State De-
partment probe of Clinton email finds
no deliberate mishandling of classified
information.’’
Well, that headline was entirely
wrong. The State Department report
said: ‘‘Instances of classified informa-
tion being deliberately transmitted via
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:11 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28OC6.005 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6183
October 28, 2019
unclassified emails were the rare ex-
ception and resulted in adjudicated se-
curity violations.’’
That statement clearly says some in-
dividuals deliberately transmitted
classified information on unclassified
systems. Those individuals were sub-
ject to security sanctions, but the
State Department failed to describe
who the violators were and what the
sanctions were.
Those answers ought to be forth-
coming. Consequently—you know my
reputation—I intend to follow up. En-
suring the proper handling of highly
classified information is an issue that
should garner bipartisan support. This
may sound like history, but there is a
lesson to be learned from this history
that classified information should be
classified for protecting national secu-
rity.
Furthermore, if government officials
deliberately expose classified informa-
tion on an unclassified system, why
didn’t the FBI find the same during
their investigations?
We all know then-Director Comey re-
fused to recommend any charges re-
lated to the Clinton investigation be-
cause the FBI could not identify the
requisite criminal intent. It seems to
me that deliberately sending classified
information on unclassified channels is
intentional conduct. Again, if the aver-
age American did that, they would be
in big trouble, as I pointed out about
the Navy sailor spending 1 year in pris-
on.
During the course of my oversight
activities, I acquired drafts of Comey’s
July 5, 2016, public statement exon-
erating Clinton. Comey’s initial draft
stated the following. This is the initial
draft.
There is evidence to support a conclusion
that Secretary Clinton, and others, used the
private email server in a manner that was
grossly negligent with respect to the han-
dling of classified material.
Comey also said this:
Similarly, the sheer volume of information
that was properly classified as Secret at the
time it was discussed on email (that is, ex-
cluding the up-classified emails) supports an
inference that the participants were grossly
negligent in their handling of that informa-
tion.
Gross negligence—the words used by
Comey—is a criminal standard under
title 18, section 793.
He later dumbed-down his statement
to a noncriminal standard:
Although we did not find clear evidence
that Secretary Clinton or her colleagues in-
tended to violate laws governing the han-
dling of classified information, there is evi-
dence that they were extremely careless in
their handling of very sensitive, highly clas-
sified information.
And that was before he finished the
investigation and interviewed 17 wit-
nesses, including Secretary Clinton.
Director Comey never once said that
some individuals deliberately sent clas-
sified information on an unclassified
system. According to the State Depart-
ment’s findings, Comey should have
come to that conclusion and made that
statement.
Clearly, deliberate conduct rises be-
yond gross negligence. So who delib-
erately sent classified information on
unclassified channels, and has the De-
partment communicated this new find-
ing to the FBI?
Just last week, I spoke on the floor
about how the FBI pulled its punches
during the Clinton investigation. I
talked about how the FBI agreed to
limit the scope of review to her time as
Secretary of State. That decision
eliminated potentially highly relevant
emails before and after her tenure that
could have shed light on why she oper-
ated the nongovernment server. It also
eliminated emails around the time of
the conference call between Clinton’s
attorneys and the administrator of her
server that led to the deletion of her
emails. That limitation of scope defies
reason.
Lastly, the FBI agreed to destroy
records and laptops of Clinton’s associ-
ates after reviewing them. That is an
astonishing agreement in light of the
fact those records could have been rel-
evant to ongoing congressional inquir-
ies that the FBI knew about.
Secretary Clinton’s actions caused
588 security violations and highly clas-
sified information to be exposed to an
unclassified system. Some of those vio-
lations were very deliberate, but that
is the first we have heard of it.
The public ought to know whether
those folks involved were punished ac-
cording to the letter of the law or were
given special treatment. Equal applica-
tion of the law without regard to
power, party, or privilege ought to be
the norm. With what we know up to
this point, the Clinton investigation
failed to hit its mark.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
AMENDMENT NO. 961 TO AMENDMENT NO. 948
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President,
I call up amendment No. 961, as pro-
vided for under the previous order, and
I ask that it be reported by number.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Nevada [Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO] proposes an amendment numbered
961 to amendment No. 948.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: To require a report relating to the
challenges that food distribution programs
face in reaching underserved populations)
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
REPORT ON FOOD DISTRIBUTION PROGRAMS
REACHING UNDERSERVED POPULATIONS
SEC. 7ll. The Secretary of Agriculture
shall conduct a study on the challenges that
the food distribution program on Indian res-
ervations established under section 4(b) of
the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C.
2013(b)) and other food distribution programs
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture
face in reaching underserved populations,
with an emphasis on the homebound and the
elderly, to better capture data on the popu-
lation of people unable to physically travel
to a distribution location for food.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator is recognized.
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President,
I rise to support this amendment,
which is an amendment that supports
our Native-American communities who
face food insecurity.
The Food Distribution Program on
Indian Reservations, commonly known
as FDPIR, provides food assistance for
90,000 people in 276 Tribes across this
country. Often, on Tribal lands—and
certainly in the rural parts of my home
State of Nevada—people live miles
from a SNAP office or a grocery store.
So FDPIR provides a crucial source of
nutrition.
But many enrollees in the program
still have to pick up the FDPIR bene-
fits in person, and for elderly or dis-
abled Tribal members, it is too dif-
ficult to make that trip. So I urge my
colleagues to vote for this important
amendment to study ways to improve
access to the program for the home-
bound and the elderly.
I thank my colleague and fellow
member of the Indian Affairs Com-
mittee, Senator LANKFORD, for his sup-
port on this important effort. We want
to ensure that no one is going hungry
when there is food waiting for them
just a few miles away.
I thank the Senate leadership for al-
lowing open debate and discussion of
the issue facing Indian Country on the
floor of this Chamber.
I look forward to continued conversa-
tions on how to help members of Tribes
to thrive and to grow their commu-
nities and to chart a more vibrant fu-
ture.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I en-
courage my colleagues to pass this
amendment that has been called up and
that we are going to vote for here in
just a few moments. Senator CORTEZ
MASTO and I worked together on this.
She has been the lead on this whole
issue. I am proud to cosponsor it with
her.
This is a basic study of how we can
make sure that the food benefits the
USDA is choosing to provide and that
together we are providing as Federal
taxpayers to Indian reservations is ac-
tually getting to people who need it
the most.
At this point, the USDA program is
set up so that people have to come to
a central distribution area to get ac-
cess to food. Many elderly and disabled
cannot go to a central distribution
area to get access to food. If we are
going to have a food program like this,
let’s make sure we are actually getting
food to where people need it the most.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:11 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28OC6.006 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6184 October 28, 2019
There are other programs that are in
the Federal program right now, like
Meals on Wheels and other programs
that are designated, where we can part-
ner with groups to make sure food gets
there, but there are other programs,
like this program, the Food Distribu-
tion Program on Indian Reservations,
that may not be getting to where food
is needed the most for the most num-
ber of people.
I think other programs will need a
study like this as well. We have other
child nutrition programs, for instance,
that happen in the summertime, where
children, just as in this program set up
on Indian reservations, have to come to
a central location to get access to food.
Many children don’t have the ability to
get transportation to get food. So
those individuals and those families
who need the most help are facing yet
another hurdle to get help.
This is a study, and I think it is the
first step to make sure that what we do
is done well, is done efficiently, and
that the intended outcome to help peo-
ple is accurately occurring.
I thank Senator CORTEZ MASTO for
stepping up and for her leadership for
this. I am proud to be a cosponsor with
her.
I look forward to our colleagues vot-
ing for this, getting the results of this
study, and actually making sure that
in the days ahead, food assistance is
getting to places where people need it
the most.
With that, I yield back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kentucky.
AMENDMENT NO. 1019 TO AMENDMENT NO. 948
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, we are set
to borrow nearly $1 trillion this year.
Our overall debt is over $22 trillion.
In my office, I have a debt clock. You
can see it at debtclock.org. It is spin-
ning out of control. The numbers are
mind-boggling. In the next decade, just
the interest on the debt is set to exceed
$1 trillion. That is $1 trillion simply
wasted because we are not fiscally re-
sponsible enough to balance our budg-
et.
There are ramifications to having so
much debt. When we monetize the debt
or the Federal Reserve creates money
to pay for the debt, what ends up hap-
pening is it dilutes the value of our
current dollars.
We have been doing that for a long
period of nearly 100 years or over 100
years, since the Federal Reserve was
created, and the vast majority of the
dollar’s value has been lost over time.
Inflation is not what it used to be,
but there are still other problems. As
interest grows on the debt, it crowds
out other spending. So when we get to
spending $1 trillion on the interest of
the debt, what it is going to do is it is
going to crowd out other spending.
Whether you are on the right and you
want more military spending or you
are on the left and you want more wel-
fare spending, it is being crowded out
by the debt growing so much that in-
terest is pushing out other projects.
What I have offered is a common-
sense approach to this. Everybody has
their sacred cow. Everybody has some
money they want to spend somewhere.
Why don’t we cut every program by 2
pennies? We have a 2-percent across-
the-board cut, and so what we would do
is we would spend 98 percent of what
we spent last year.
It is interesting that groups come in
to see me in the office, and they say
‘‘Well, we have this dramatic program,
and it is to cure AIDS or Alzheimer’s
or diabetes, and it is going to be this
wonderful project,’’ and I say ‘‘Well,
last year you got $100 million; could
you deal with $98 million this year?’’
Interestingly, whether they are con-
servative, liberal, or independent, they
look at me and say ‘‘Well, gosh, yes, I
think I can deal with $98 million in-
stead of $100 million; I think we could
deal with a 2-percent cut if we get 98
percent of what we got last year.’’
Most of the groups that are actually
invested in this and have a family
member with one of these diseases
think they can deal with it. Do you
know the only people in the whole
country who think we couldn’t do it?
The people you have elected. They have
become so distant from you that they
will not vote for any cuts. They think:
Oh, woe is me. It will be so much
money.
The media will say that even a freeze
in spending for 10 years is a $10 trillion
cut. How could that possibly be? If we
spent the same amount of money next
year as we spent this year, how could
that be a cut?
But the media controls the narrative.
The left has aided and abetted them.
They say: Well, we were going to spend
5 percent more, so you cut 5 percent by
not increasing the spending from last
year.
That is ridiculous. They call a freeze
a spending cut. If your salary is going
to be the same next year as it was last
year, is that a cut or is it getting the
same salary?
What I am proposing is that we cut it
by 2 percent. Why? Well, we would like
to balance the budget, ultimately. This
is just the annual budget. This isn’t
getting rid of the debt—not the $22 tril-
lion debt. It is just so we quit digging
the hole deeper.
For the first several years I proposed
this, we called it the penny plan. We
would cut 1 percent a year for 5 years
and the budget would balance in 5
years. Nobody listened.
Not one Democrat cares at all about
the debt. Not one of them will ever
vote to cut any spending. Now, on the
Republican side, they profess to care,
but over half of them will not vote to
cut any spending. There is a lot of hy-
pocrisy to go around.
When I first started introducing the
penny plan, a 1-percent cut would have
balanced the budget in 5 years. But
since we didn’t do it, government
spending kept exploding and growing
and growing, so now it takes a 2-per-
cent cut. This would be a 2-percent cut
of everything but Social Security.
The problem is, though, nobody has
introduced a bill in decades and nobody
has had a vote in decades on a bill to
fix the real problem, which is entitle-
ments. So many of the people will be-
moan: Oh, we could never fix it by cut-
ting the discretionary spending, so I
am not going to cut any. But that is
the only thing we get to vote on, so
that is what we are putting forward, a
2-percent cut. Still, in order to balance
it, you would have to have a 2-percent
cut of the entitlements, as well, but we
might as well start with what we are
doing.
Some people say: Well, government is
so essential. We would cut government,
and what would happen to the people
who depend on it?
Let me give you an example of some
of what your government is spending
your money on. The National Science
Foundation probably gets the award
for some of the most ridiculous spend-
ing in all of your government. Even
since the times of William Proxmire, in
the early 1970s, they would get the
Golden Fleece Award.
One of his first awards gave them an
award for spending $50,000 to determine
what makes you happy. It was thought
to be ridiculous at the time, and then,
for the last 50 years, we have continued
to do it. In fact, just this last year, the
National Science Foundation is still
concerned about what makes you
happy. They spent $500,000 this time. I
guess that is inflation. They spent
$500,000 studying whether it makes you
happy if you take a selfie of yourself
while smiling. If you will keep looking
at the picture of yourself smiling—the
selfie you took—is that worth $500,000?
Do we not have something better we
could do? Maybe we can reduce the def-
icit by cutting the National Science
Foundation.
They also studied what Neil Arm-
strong said when he landed on the
Moon. Did he say ‘‘one small step for
man, one giant leap for mankind’’ or
did he say ‘‘one small step for a man’’?
They spent $700,000 of your money
studying whether Neil Armstrong said
‘‘a man’’ or ‘‘man.’’
Guess what the experts said after
they listened to the tape crackle,
crackle, crackle, over and over again,
for $700,000. They don’t know. Experts
still disagree on whether he said ‘‘a
man’’ or just ‘‘man’’—$700,000.
We spent $1.2 million studying online
dating. Look, they seem to be success-
ful. I think it must be working. The
websites are making a ton of money.
Millions of people use them. Why in the
world would government study whether
dating sites work?
They spend $1.5 million trying to
make tomatoes taste better. I don’t
know where that came from. They
funded a book on appreciating the met-
ric system for $188,000. There was a
conference sponsored on balding for
$22,000.
The Department of Commerce got
into the game. They developed a dig-
ital down marker for football games for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:11 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28OC6.009 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6185
October 28, 2019
$130,000. I think that had existed al-
ready. They spent $500,000 on a movie
about the kilogram. Raise your hand if
you are going to stay up tonight to
watch the documentary by the Depart-
ment of Commerce on the kilogram.
The Department of Agriculture pro-
vides marketing assistance for spe-
cialty crops, including Christmas trees.
It turns out there are more specialty
crops than regular crops. There was
$50,000 given to the State of Georgia for
marketing Christmas trees.
The Department of the Interior stud-
ied people’s experiences with sea mon-
sters in Alaska—$150,000. I thought sea
monsters were fake news, but I guess in
an era of fake news, it is difficult to de-
termine what is really fake news. Your
government spent $150,000 studying sea
monsters in Alaska.
They built a parking lot at an Indian
casino for $500,000. These casinos appar-
ently make multiple millions of dollars
a year, and we spent $500,000 paving a
parking lot for a for-profit enterprise.
We built a self-cleaning toilet in a
New York City park.
We gave $1 million to subsidize Lyft
rides. I thought Uber and Lyft were
doing quite well without our help.
We gave $153 million to D.C. Metro,
which apparently is one of the most
mismanaged metros in the country.
Let’s see. National Endowment for
the Arts—we spent $25,000 on a museum
to Hollywood. If there is any person in
the country who really does not need
any more adoration—and the taxpayers
to pay for adoration—it is Hollywood,
but you spent $25,000 building a mu-
seum, so I guess they can appreciate
themselves even more.
In order to combat homelessness in
LA, we paid to put on plays. Appar-
ently, if you are homeless, it must
make you feel better to watch street
performers performing a play in front
of you.
We also paid to put on dances with
the Cars. While that may sound enter-
taining, it might be that we might
have other things we might want to
spend that money on.
We were told every year that we
couldn’t possibly cut any spending.
There is no way we could do it.
I put forward these spending pro-
posals because I ran for office and said
that we should balance the budget. I
actually believed what I ran on. I
thought I would get here, and I thought
there would be momentum.
The Republicans all talked about the
debt. They don’t care. The Democrats
are not going to vote for it. No Demo-
crat will vote for a spending cut—never
have and never will. But the Repub-
licans will at least tell you they will,
and then they don’t.
What I am putting forward today is a
2-percent cut across the board. They
get to spend 98 percent of what they
spent last year, and we could be serious
about actually bringing our budget
into line. I have yet to meet someone
at home who doesn’t think it is a good
idea, and I have yet to meet very many
people here who are willing to enter-
tain the idea.
There is a disconnect between Wash-
ington and the people. If you were to
ask the people in any of the States
that are represented at least by the Re-
publican side—and I venture to say by
some on the Democratic side—if you
were to ask any of the people in those
States ‘‘Do you think we could live
with 98 percent of what we spent last
year?’’ I think the people would say
that we ought to do it. Most businesses
or families in our country have had to
deal with less money and have often
had to deal with a lot less than 98 per-
cent of their previous salary, and peo-
ple do. Businesses recover all the time
by having to clamp down and watch
their costs, but government never does.
Government just keeps spending and
spending and spending.
The vote on my amendment will
come up in the next few minutes, and
it will be a 2-percent cut across the
board, and I urge the other Senators to
vote in favor of it.
At this time, Mr. President, I call up
my amendment 1019 and ask that it be
reported by number.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the amendment.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
The Senator from Kentucky [Mr. PAUL]
proposes an amendment numbered 1019 to
amendment No. 948.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: To reduce the amounts appro-
priated to be 2 percent less than the
amount appropriated for fiscal year 2019)
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. REDUCTION IN AMOUNT OF APPRO-
PRIATIONS.
Each amount made available under divi-
sion A, B, C, or D of this Act (in this section
referred to as a ‘‘fiscal year 2020 amount’’)
shall be reduced by the amount necessary for
the fiscal year 2020 amount to be equal to the
amount that is 2 percent less than the
amount made available for fiscal year 2019
for the purposes for which the fiscal year
2020 amount is being made available.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
AMENDMENT NO. 1067 TO AMENDMENT NO. 948
Mr. JONES. Mr. President, I rise
today on one issue, and I promise, out
of deference to my friend, who is the
Presiding Officer right now, not to
bring up anything about college foot-
ball this past weekend. That would be
for another discussion.
I rise today to urge my colleagues to
take an important step to correct one
of the great injustices in America, an
injustice that many in this body may
not have a full appreciation for because
it just might not affect too many of
their particular constituents. I am
speaking of the injustices faced by real
property owners known as heirs’ prop-
erty owners.
These landowners, who are typically
African-American farmers and pro-
ducers in the Deep South, own land
that has been informally passed down
within families, often for several gen-
erations, without any clear title.
Sadly, that has often led to costly legal
complications, prevented landowners
from qualifying for Federal assistance,
and, in many cases, resulted in actual
loss of land ownership. This issue over-
whelmingly impacts African-American
land ownership, of which an estimated
60 percent is heirs’ property and has
created barriers to building genera-
tional wealth.
It is no coincidence that this has im-
pacted Black landowners when you
consider the challenges faced by pre-
vious generations of African Americans
just to purchase their land, the obsta-
cles they faced to obtain legal services
and to have their wills prepared.
The heirs’ property challenge that is
facing these families today is yet an-
other vestige of the Jim Crow era that,
with some exceptions, has lasted far
too long and that we must seek to cor-
rect.
These injustices have had long-last-
ing consequences for the families who
have struggled to prove their land
claims, including the untold emotional
cost for those who have seen their fam-
ily land taken or sold out from under
them.
Because a significant portion of mi-
nority-owned rural land was passed
down through generations as heirs’
property, these farmers and ranchers
have been unable to obtain farm num-
bers and, thus, access to a multitude of
USDA programs. These programs are
vital to these landowners, who already
face significant risk and uncertainty in
their work.
That is why, when I came to the Sen-
ate last year, I teamed up with my
friend from South Carolina, Senator
SCOTT, to work together to initiate
changes that will start to help these
farmers gain access to Federal aid and
help us better understand the full spec-
trum of challenges they face as a result
of their heirs’ property status.
I am very proud of the fact that we
secured several provisions in the final
2018 farm bill that address heirs’ prop-
erty. I thank Senators ROBERTS and
STABENOW for their assistance. One of
the biggest components that was in-
cluded will allow heirs’ property own-
ers, with the appropriate documenta-
tion, to obtain USDA farm numbers so
that they can gain access to the De-
partment’s programs, such as crop in-
surance and disaster relief.
However, that is just one of the ob-
stacles they face today. Another provi-
sion focuses on consolidating land own-
ership. Heirs are often faced with
issues of ‘‘fractional’’ ownership among
relatives. Their own family had the
fractional shares of the land that has
been passed down for generations, and
that increases the chances of one heir
partitioning the land or causing the
land to be lost due to a tax default.
Some States even require the entire
property to be sold if the courts find
that dividing the land would prejudice
one owner.
Under these circumstances, it is no
wonder that between 1910 and 1997, an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28OC6.010 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6186 October 28, 2019
estimated 90 percent of land owned by
African Americans in this country was
lost due to heirs’ property issues. That
statistic bears repeating and empha-
sizing. Between 1910 and 1997, an esti-
mated 90 percent of land owned by Afri-
can Americans in the United States
was lost due to heirs’ property issues.
Last year, together we embarked on
the journey to right these wrongs. The
2018 farm bill gave authority to the
USDA Secretary to make loans to eli-
gible entities such as cooperatives and
credit unions that have experience
helping minority farmers so they can
relend funds to assist heirs with undi-
vided interests to resolve ownership
and succession on farmland.
My amendment that we will be vot-
ing on shortly will provide $5 million
to help get this program off the
ground. That is the same amount of
money that is included in the House
version of the appropriations bill.
This is an important next step to ful-
fill the intent of last year’s farm bill
and to help these families maintain
land that is rightfully theirs. I urge my
colleagues to join me in supporting
this amendment and continuing our ef-
forts together to remove these barriers
and right these wrongs.
Mr. President, I would like to call up
Amendment No. 1067, as provided for
under the previous order, and I ask
that it be reported by number.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the amendment
by number.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
The Senator from Alabama [Mr. JONES]
proposes an amendment numbered 1067 to
amendment No. 948.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: To provide funding for the re-
lending program to resolve ownership and
succession on farmland)
On page 141, line 8, insert ‘‘, and of which
$5,000,000 shall be available to carry out sec-
tion 310I of the Consolidated Farm and Rural
Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1936c)’’ after
‘‘2021’’.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Mississippi.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that there be 2
minutes equally divided between each
vote in this series and that all votes
after the first be 10 minutes in length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
VOTE ON AMENDMENT NO. 961 TO AMENDMENT
NO. 948
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the question is on
agreeing to the amendment No. 961, of-
fered by the Senator from Nevada, Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY), the Sen-
ator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON), the
Senator from North Carolina (Mr.
TILLIS), and the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. REED), the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS), and the Senator from
Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN) are nec-
essarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 90,
nays 1, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 334 Leg.]
YEAS—90
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—1
Blackburn
NOT VOTING—9
Booker
Cassidy
Harris
Isakson
Reed
Sanders
Tillis
Toomey
Warren
The amendment (No. 961) was agreed
to.
AMENDMENT NO. 1019 TO AMENDMENT NO. 948
The PRESIDING OFFICER. There
will now be 2 minutes of debate equally
divided prior to a vote in relation to
amendment No. 1019, offered by the
Senator from Kentucky, Mr. PAUL.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I don’t
see the Senator from Kentucky on the
floor, but I will speak briefly in opposi-
tion to it as I know many others feel
the same.
His amendment will slash spending
below the Bipartisan Budget Act,
which we all negotiated, by over $14
billion.
To give you some examples, the U.S.
Census Bureau would be $3.8 billion
below the fiscal year 2020 bipartisan
level, making it impossible to hold an
accurate and complete count. It would
severely compromise the Federal Gov-
ernment’s ability to fight wildfires and
safeguard people’s lives and property.
All you have to do is look at the tens
of thousands of acres in California, Ari-
zona, and Colorado to see what that
would do. We have $3.6 billion to fight
wildfires. He would reject those in-
creases and then cut them by $1.6 bil-
lion. It would cut available funding for
our Nation’s roadways and bridges by
over $1.5 billion. It would eliminate the
potential of there being 19,500 new jobs
and a whole lot of other things.
Mr. President, the Paul amendment
would slash spending below the Bipar-
tisan Budget Act by over $14 billion.
Under the Paul amendment, the Bu-
reau of the Census would be $3.8 billion
below the fiscal year 2020 funding level
in the Senate bill. At this funding
level, it would not be possible to hold
an accurate and complete count.
The Paul amendment would also se-
verely compromise the Federal Govern-
ment’s ability to fight catastrophic
wildfires and safeguard people’s lives
and property at a time when tens of
thousands of acres in California, Ari-
zona, and Colorado are ablaze. The fis-
cal year 2020 Senate bill provides $3.6
billion to fight wildfires and access.
The Paul amendment would reject
those increases and reduce the
amounts provided for fire suppression
by $1.6 billion.
The Paul amendment would cut
available funding for our Nation’s road-
ways and bridges by over $1.5 billion,
eliminating the potential for 19,500 new
jobs and exacerbating the $123 billion
backlog of bridge repairs and replace-
ment of 47,000 structurally deficient
bridges.
These are just a few examples of the
real world implications of the Paul
amendment. I urge all members to vote
no.
Mr. President, if nobody seeks time, I
yield back all time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time
is yielded back.
VOTE ON AMENDMENT NO. 1019 TO AMENDMENT
NO. 948
The question is on agreeing to the
Paul amendment, No. 1019.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY), the Sen-
ator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON), the
Senator from North Carolina (Mr.
TILLIS), and the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. REED), the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) and, the Senator from
Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN) are nec-
essarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:53 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28OC6.011 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6187
October 28, 2019
The result was announced—yeas 24,
nays 67, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 335 Leg.]
YEAS—24
Barrasso
Blackburn
Braun
Cornyn
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Grassley
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Paul
Perdue
Risch
Romney
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (SC)
Sullivan
NAYS—67
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Portman
Roberts
Rosen
Rounds
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Thune
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NOT VOTING—9
Booker
Cassidy
Harris
Isakson
Reed
Sanders
Tillis
Toomey
Warren
The amendment (No. 1019) was re-
jected.
AMENDMENT NO. 1067 TO AMENDMENT NO. 948
The PRESIDING OFFICER. There
will now be 2 minutes of debate equally
divided prior to a vote in relation to
amendment No. 1067, offered by the
Senator from Alabama, Mr. JONES.
The Senator from Alabama.
Mr. JONES. Mr. President, this
amendment will continue a process
that was started last year in the farm
bill to correct one of the grave injus-
tices to the African-American popu-
lation here.
This bill deals with heir property—
property that has gone down through
generations without clear title. These
landowners have been denied access to
USDA programs and other instances.
This amendment deals with heir prop-
erty. African Americans have long been
denied property based on the fact that
so much of it has been passed down
through the generations without clear
title.
They have been denied access to the
USDA programs and also have lost
property. Between 1910 and 1997, an es-
timated 90 percent of land owned by Af-
rican Americans in this country was
lost due to heir property issues. Last
year we began the process in this Sen-
ate with the farm bill to correct that,
part of which was creating a program
at USDA to loan money to help get
these folks back on their feet, to get
them into the programs they need.
This amendment provides $5 million to
start that program. It is the same
amount of money that is in the House
bill.
I urge my colleagues to continue this
opportunity to correct this wrong and
right this injustice.
Mr. President, I yield.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Who
yields time in opposition?
Mr. CRAPO. I yield.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Time is
yielded back.
The question occurs on agreeing to
amendment No. 1067.
Mr. JONES. I ask for the yeas and
nays, Mr. President.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY), the Sen-
ator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON), the
Senator from North Carolina (Mr.
TILLIS), and the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
SANDERS), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN), are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 91,
nays 1, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 336 Leg.]
YEAS—91
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—1
Blackburn
NOT VOTING—8
Booker
Cassidy
Harris
Isakson
Sanders
Tillis
Toomey
Warren
The amendment (No. 1067) was agreed
to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk for
the Shelby substitute amendment No.
948.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on amend-
ment No. 948 to H.R. 3055, a bill making ap-
propriations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Related
Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes.
Richard C. Shelby, Mike Crapo, John
Cornyn, Roy Blunt, Thom Tillis, Shel-
ley Moore Capito, Roger F. Wicker,
Lisa Murkowski, Mike Rounds, Pat
Roberts, John Boozman, Marco Rubio,
John Barrasso, Kevin Cramer, Richard
Burr, James E. Risch, Mitch McCon-
nell.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk for
the underlying bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on Calendar
No. 141, H.R. 3055, a bill making appropria-
tions for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and
for other purposes.
Richard C. Shelby, Mike Crapo, John
Cornyn, Roy Blunt, Thom Tillis, Shel-
ley Moore Capito, Roger F. Wicker,
Lisa Murkowski, Mike Rounds, Pat
Roberts, John Boozman, Marco Rubio,
John Barrasso, Kevin Cramer, Richard
Burr, James E. Risch, Mitch McCon-
nell.
f
LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES, EDUCATION, DE-
FENSE, STATE, FOREIGN OPER-
ATIONS, AND ENERGY AND
WATER DEVELOPMENT APPRO-
PRIATIONS ACT, 2020—Motion to
Proceed
Mr. MCCONNELL. I move to proceed
to Calendar No. 140, H.R. 2740.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 140,
H.R. 2740, a bill making appropriations for
the Departments of Labor, Health and
Human Services, and Education, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. I send a cloture
motion to the desk for the motion to
proceed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:05 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.008 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6188 October 28, 2019
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 140, H.R.
2740, a bill making appropriations for the De-
partments of Labor, Health and Human Serv-
ices, and Education, and related agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and
for other purposes.
Richard C. Shelby, Mike Crapo, John
Cornyn, Roy Blunt, Thom Tillis, Shel-
ley Moore Capito, Roger F. Wicker,
Lisa Murkowski, Mike Rounds, Pat
Roberts, John Boozman, Marco Rubio,
Rick Scott, John Barrasso, Kevin
Cramer, Richard Burr, Mitch McCon-
nell.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
calls be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to executive session and
the consideration of the following nom-
ination, Executive Calendar No. 467.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of David M.
DeVillers, of Ohio, to be United States
Attorney for the Southern District of
Ohio for the term of four years.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nomination.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nomination with no intervening action
or debate; that if confirmed, the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table; that the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action; that no further mo-
tions be in order; and that any state-
ments relating to the nomination be
printed in the RECORD and the Senate
resume legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Is there further debate on the nomi-
nation?
If not, the question is, Will the Sen-
ate advise and consent to the DeVillers
nomination?
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
President will be immediately notified
of the Senate’s action, and the Senate
will resume legislative session.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I was un-
avoidably absent for two votes this
evening due to a flight delay. Had I
been present, I would have voted yea
on amendment 961 and nay on amend-
ment 1019.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO LILIE MURRAY
∑ Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, I am
proud to recognize Lilie Murray of Rye
as October’s Granite Stater of the
Month for her work to provide support
and necessities to those in need.
Lilie was first inspired to take up the
cause to help less fortunate members of
her community after her advisor and
sophomore-year honors ecology teach-
er, Kimberly McGlinchey, taught Lil-
ie’s class about the United Nation’s
sustainable development goals, The
class focused specifically on 3 of the 17
goals: no poverty, quality education,
and sustainable cities and commu-
nities.
In an effort to make progress on
these goals in her community, Lilie
started Portsmouth Community Clos-
et, which donates new or gently used
clothing to people in need on the Sea-
coast. The group distributed its first
donations at Gosling Meadows, a public
housing neighborhood in Portsmouth.
During that event, Lilie learned that
Gosling Meadows’ residents were strug-
gling to clean their clothes after the
neighborhood laundromat shut down.
Many of the residents did not have
cars, and the local city buses do not
allow residents to bring large bags on
the bus.
In response, Lilie organized a fund-
raiser to bring washers and dryers to
families living in Gosling Meadows,
giving priority to families with stu-
dents who attended her public high
school. The fundraiser was a huge suc-
cess, raising $4,500 to provide eight
families with energy-saving washers
and dryers.
Following up on her work with Gos-
ling Meadows, Lilie started a summer
program at Greenleaf Recreation Cen-
ter in Portsmouth, which mainly
serves children ages 6 to 13 from Gos-
ling Meadows, as well as another public
housing neighborhood in Portsmouth.
She and her classmates brought the
children in the program on trips that
they normally would not be able to af-
ford, such as rock climbing or blue-
berry picking.
Her work with these kids inspired her
to jump into another project to help
her community, this time focusing on
literacy. Lilie could see how much
these children love to read, but there
was no dedicated space in the Greenleaf
Recreation Center for quiet reading. So
over the summer she and her class-
mates built a colorful reading nook in
the Greenleaf Recreation Center to
give these children the space and re-
sources that they needed to read and
learn.
What is so wonderful about Lilie’s
story is that each one of her volunteer
services builds on the next and goes to
show how inspiring and motivating it
can be to volunteer in one’s commu-
nity.
Thank you, Lilie, for your continued
efforts to help those less fortunate and
for committing yourself to creating a
more just and equal society.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 3:02 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bills, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 777. An act to reauthorize programs
authorized under the Debbie Smith Act of
2004.
H.R. 4617. An act to amend the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 to clarify the
obligation to report acts of foreign election
influence and require implementation of
compliance and reporting systems by Fed-
eral campaigns to detect and report such
acts, and for other purposes.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bill was read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 4617. An act to amend the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 to clarify the
obligation to report acts of foreign election
influence and require implementation of
compliance and reporting systems by Fed-
eral campaigns to detect and report such
acts, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, without amendment:
S. 439. A bill to allow Members of Congress
to opt out of the Federal Employees Retire-
ment System, and allow Members who opt
out of the Federal Employees Retirement
System to continue to participate in the
Thrift Savings Plan (Rept. No. 116–153).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with amendments:
S. 2177. A bill to provide taxpayers with an
improved understanding of Government pro-
grams through the disclosure of cost, per-
formance, and areas of duplication among
them, leverage existing data to achieve a
functional Federal program inventory, and
for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–154).
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G28OC6.022 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6189
October 28, 2019
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself and Mr.
JOHNSON):
S. 2712. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
430 South Knowles Avenue in New Richmond,
Wisconsin, as the ‘‘Captain Robert C. Har-
mon and Private John R. Peirson Post Office
Building’’; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. PAUL:
S. 2713. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on
indoor tanning services; to the Committee
on Finance.
By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself and
Mr. ALEXANDER):
S. 2714. A bill to amend the America COM-
PETES Act to reauthorize the ARPA–E pro-
gram, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Mr.
COONS):
S. 2715. A bill to develop and implement
policies to advance early childhood develop-
ment, to provide assistance for orphans and
other vulnerable children in developing
countries, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 2716. A bill to amend the Grand Ronde
Reservation Act, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Indian Affairs.
By Mr. CARDIN:
S. 2717. A bill to amend the Small Business
Act to spur entrepreneurial ecosystems in
underserved communities; to the Committee
on Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr.
HEINRICH):
S. 2718. A bill to provide for the conduct of
certain water security measures in the State
of New Mexico, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. ROM-
NEY, and Mr. JONES):
S. 2719. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to increase the knowledge
and skills of principals and school leaders re-
garding early childhood education; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Ms.
HASSAN):
S. 2720. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to estab-
lish the Adverse Childhood Experiences Re-
sponse Team grant program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. DURBIN:
S. 2721. A bill to reduce violence and health
disparities by addressing social determinants
of health, enhancing health care recruit-
ment, and improving the delivery of quality,
coordinated care services, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 177
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 177, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the
Small Business Act to expand the
availability of employee stock owner-
ship plans in S corporations, and for
other purposes.
S. 206
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 206, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal to the female tele-
phone operators of the Army Signal
Corps, known as the ‘‘Hello Girls’’ .
S. 229
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 229, a bill to provide ad-
vance appropriations authority for cer-
tain accounts of the Bureau of Indian
Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education
of the Department of the Interior and
the Indian Health Service of the De-
partment of Health and Human Serv-
ices, and for other purposes.
S. 261
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) and the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. PERDUE) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 261, a bill to extend the
authorization of appropriations for al-
location to carry out approved wet-
lands conservation projects under the
North American Wetlands Conserva-
tion Act through fiscal year 2024, and
for other purposes.
S. 283
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
283, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve access
to, and utilization of, bone mass meas-
urement benefits under part B of the
Medicare program by establishing a
minimum payment amount under such
part for bone mass measurement.
S. 636
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 636, a bill to designate
Venezuela under section 244 of the Im-
migration and Nationality Act to per-
mit nationals of Venezuela to be eligi-
ble for temporary protected status
under such section.
S. 980
At the request of Mr. BURR, the name
of the Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 980, a bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to improve the
provision of services for homeless vet-
erans, and for other purposes.
S. 1163
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1163, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for an ex-
clusion for assistance provided to par-
ticipants in certain veterinary student
loan repayment or forgiveness pro-
grams.
S. 1168
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1168, a bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to ensure campus
access at public institutions of higher
education for religious groups.
S. 1300
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) and the Senator from Wash-
ington (Ms. CANTWELL) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1300, a bill to require
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint
a coin in commemoration of the open-
ing of the National Law Enforcement
Museum in the District of Columbia,
and for other purposes.
S. 1590
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
names of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) and the Senator
from Massachusetts (Mr. MARKEY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1590, a bill to
amend the State Department Basic Au-
thorities Act of 1956 to authorize re-
wards for thwarting wildlife trafficking
linked to transnational organized
crime, and for other purposes.
S. 1657
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) and the Senator from
New Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1657, a bill to
provide assistance to combat the esca-
lating burden of Lyme disease and
other tick and vector-borne diseases
and disorders.
S. 1841
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA) and the Senator from
Louisiana (Mr. KENNEDY) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1841, a bill to amend
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to
extend the publicly traded partnership
ownership structure to energy power
generation projects and transportation
fuels, and for other purposes.
S. 1855
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1855, a bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to improve col-
lege access and college completion for
all students.
S. 1906
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1906, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to provide fi-
nancial assistance to eligible entities
to provide and coordinate the provision
of suicide prevention services for vet-
erans at risk of suicide and veteran
families through the award of grants to
such entities, and for other purposes.
S. 1979
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1979, a bill to amend title 49,
United States Code, to provide for the
minimum size of crews of freight
trains, and for other purposes.
S. 2054
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2054, a bill to post-
humously award the Congressional
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.014 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6190 October 28, 2019
Gold Medal, collectively, to Glen
Doherty, Tyrone Woods, J. Christopher
Stevens, and Sean Smith, in recogni-
tion of their contributions to the Na-
tion.
S. 2080
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) and the Senator from Colo-
rado (Mr. GARDNER) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2080, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to increase
the number of permanent faculty in
palliative care at accredited allopathic
and osteopathic medical schools, nurs-
ing schools, social work schools, and
other programs, including physician
assistant education programs, to pro-
mote education and research in pallia-
tive care and hospice, and to support
the development of faculty careers in
academic palliative medicine.
S. 2085
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2085, a bill to authorize the Sec-
retary of Education to award grants to
eligible entities to carry out edu-
cational programs about the Holo-
caust, and for other purposes.
S. 2179
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2179, a bill to amend the Older
Americans Act of 1965 to provide social
service agencies with the resources to
provide services to meet the urgent
needs of Holocaust survivors to age in
place with dignity, comfort, security,
and quality of life.
S. 2321
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2321, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of the Treasury to mint a coin
in commemoration of the 100th anni-
versary of the establishment of Negro
Leagues baseball.
S. 2539
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2539, a bill to modify and reau-
thorize the Tibetan Policy Act of 2002,
and for other purposes.
S. 2565
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) and the Senator
from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2565, a bill to
establish a Global Climate Change Re-
silience Strategy, to authorize the ad-
mission of climate-displaced persons,
and for other purposes.
S. 2599
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2599, a bill to amend the De-
partment of Agriculture Reorganiza-
tion Act of 1994 to provide assistance to
manage farmer and rancher stress and
for the mental health of individuals in
rural areas, and for other purposes.
S. 2603
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2603, a bill to amend the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act to end the im-
migrant visa backlog, and for other
purposes.
S. 2618
At the request of Mr. PAUL, the name
of the Senator from Pennsylvania (Mr.
TOOMEY) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2618, a bill to strengthen employee cost
savings suggestions programs within
the Federal Government.
S. 2703
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2703, a bill to enhance the
recognition of, and response to, air-
craft failure conditions, and for other
purposes.
S. 2710
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. BRAUN) and the Senator from Col-
orado (Mr. GARDNER) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2710, a bill to prohibit
the commercial export of covered mu-
nitions items to the Hong Kong Police
Force.
S.J. RES. 3
At the request of Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
the name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S.J. Res. 3, a joint resolu-
tion proposing an amendment to the
Constitution of the United States rel-
ative to balancing the budget.
S.J. RES. 59
At the request of Mr. MCCONNELL,
the names of the Senator from Mon-
tana (Mr. DAINES) and the Senator
from South Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS) were
added as cosponsors of S.J. Res. 59, a
joint resolution expressing the sense of
Congress on the precipitous withdrawal
of United States Armed Forces from
Syria and Afghanistan, and Turkey’s
unprovoked incursion into Syria.
S. RES. 112
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 112, a resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate that the United
States condemns all forms of violence
against children globally and recog-
nizes the harmful impacts of violence
against children.
S. RES. 150
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 150, a resolution expressing
the sense of the Senate that it is the
policy of the United States to com-
memorate the Armenian Genocide
through official recognition and re-
membrance.
S. RES. 234
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 234, a resolution af-
firming the United States commitment
to the two-state solution to the Israeli-
Palestinian conflict, and noting that
Israeli annexation of territory in the
West Bank would undermine peace and
Israel’s future as a Jewish and demo-
cratic state.
S. RES. 297
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 297, a resolution commending
the Inter-American Foundation (IAF)
on the occasion of its 50th anniversary
for its significant accomplishments
and contributions to the economic and
social development of the Americas.
S. RES. 318
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 318, a resolution to sup-
port the Global Fund to fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria, and the
Sixth Replenishment.
S. RES. 360
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 360, a resolution af-
firming the importance of access to
safe, quality education, including pro-
tection from attacks on education, for
children in conflict settings.
S. RES. 378
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN), the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. ISAKSON), the Senator from Colo-
rado (Mr. GARDNER), the Senator from
Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) and the
Senator from Wyoming (Mr. ENZI) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 378, a
resolution expressing the sense of the
Senate that the House of Representa-
tives should, consistent with long-
standing practice and precedent, prior
to proceeding any further with its im-
peachment investigation into Presi-
dent Donald J. Trump, vote to open a
formal impeachment inquiry and pro-
vide President Trump with funda-
mental constitutional protections.
AMENDMENT NO. 999
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 999 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1000
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 1000 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.027 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6191
October 28, 2019
AMENDMENT NO. 1004
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 1004 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1013
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of amendment No. 1013 in-
tended to be proposed to H.R. 3055, a
bill making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1016
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY), the Senator from Wash-
ington (Mrs. MURRAY) and the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS) were
added as cosponsors of amendment No.
1016 intended to be proposed to H. R.
3055, a bill making appropriations for
the Departments of Commerce and Jus-
tice, Science, and Related Agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1018
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 1018 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1025
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 1025 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1037
At the request of Ms. HIRONO, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 1037 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1044
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
Alabama (Mr. JONES), the Senator from
New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER), the Senator
from Oregon (Mr. WYDEN), the Senator
from Wisconsin (Ms. BALDWIN), the
Senator from Connecticut (Mr.
BLUMENTHAL), the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. MURPHY), the Senator
from Illinois (Mr. DURBIN), the Senator
from California (Ms. HARRIS) and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) were added as cosponsors of
amendment No. 1044 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1098
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
names of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO), the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) and the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were
added as cosponsors of amendment No.
1098 intended to be proposed to H.R.
3055, a bill making appropriations for
the Departments of Commerce and Jus-
tice, Science, and Related Agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1107
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of Flor-
ida, the names of the Senator from
Florida (Mr. RUBIO) and the Senator
from Tennessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN) were
added as cosponsors of amendment No.
1107 intended to be proposed to H.R.
3055, a bill making appropriations for
the Departments of Commerce and Jus-
tice, Science, and Related Agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 1135
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 1135 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. DURBIN:
S. 2721. A bill to reduce violence and
health disparities by addressing social
determinants of health, enhancing
health care recruitment, and improv-
ing the delivery of quality, coordinated
care services, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2721
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Healing
Communities through Health Care Act’’.
SEC. 2. MEDICAID HOUSING AND HOSPITAL DEM-
ONSTRATION PROJECT.
(a) AUTHORITY.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall select States to conduct dem-
onstration projects under title XIX of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) to
test innovative partnership programs be-
tween housing agencies and programs, hos-
pitals and health systems, and community-
based organizations, to establish screening,
referral, and supportive housing programs
for individuals with behavioral health needs
who are experiencing housing insecurity,
that account for disproportionately high
rates of emergency room visits and associ-
ated Medicaid spending.
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) NUMBER OF PROJECTS.—The Secretary
shall select not less than 6 States to conduct
demonstration projects under this section.
(2) ELIGIBILITY.—In order to be eligible to
conduct a demonstration project under this
section, a State shall demonstrate the fol-
lowing:
(A) The State has or will establish suffi-
cient processes for furnishing supportive
housing services under the State Medicaid
program, working with managed care organi-
zations as applicable in the State, for Med-
icaid-eligible individuals described in sub-
section (a).
(B) The State Medicaid program has proce-
dures in place to coordinate care and serv-
ices for Medicaid-eligible individuals de-
scribed in subsection (a), including those
with behavioral health needs, across set-
tings, as appropriate, which may include
with law enforcement, hospitals and health
systems, housing authorities or agencies,
mental health and substance use treatment
facilities, and community-based organiza-
tions.
(3) PRIORITY.—In selecting States under
this section, the Secretary shall give pri-
ority to States with large urban populations
in which there are existing programs that
deliver housing, case management and serv-
ice coordination, and establishment of
screening and referral processes in health
care settings, including programs that uti-
lize public hospitals and flexible housing
pools to serve individuals who are experi-
encing housing insecurity or have behavioral
health needs.
(4) DURATION.—Each demonstration project
under this section shall be conducted for a
period of not less than 4 years.
(c) PAYMENT FOR SERVICES FURNISHED
UNDER DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
amounts expended by a State under a dem-
onstration project under this section on sup-
portive housing services for Medicaid-eligi-
ble individuals described in subsection (a)
shall be treated as medical assistance for
purposes of section 1903(a) of the Social Se-
curity Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(a)).
(2) LIMITATION ON FEDERAL FUNDING.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The total amount cer-
tified by the Secretary under title XIX of the
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.)
for payment to a State with respect to ex-
penditures described in paragraph (1) shall
not exceed the amount allocated to the State
by the Secretary under subparagraph (B).
(B) ALLOCATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall allo-
cate to each State selected to conduct a
demonstration project under this section an
amount determined appropriate by the Sec-
retary for purposes of reimbursing the State
for services furnished under the demonstra-
tion project in accordance with paragraph
(1).
(ii) LIMITATION.—The total amount allo-
cated to States under this subparagraph
shall not exceed $75,000,000.
(d) WAIVER AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may waive the following requirements as
may be necessary to conduct demonstration
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.029 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6192 October 28, 2019
projects in accordance with the requirements
of this section:
(1) The requirements of section 1902(a)(1) of
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(1))
(relating to statewideness).
(2) The requirements of section
1902(a)(10)(B) of such Act (42 U.S.C.
1396a(a)(10)(B)) (relating to comparability).
(3) The requirements of section
1902(a)(10)(C)(i)(III) of such (42 U.S.C.
1396a(a)(10)(C)(i)(III)) (relating to income and
resource rules applicable in the community).
(e) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MEDICAID.—The term ‘‘Medicaid’’ means
the medical assistance program established
under title XIX of the Social Security Act
(42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) and includes any waiv-
ers of such program
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Health and Human
Services.
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ has the
meaning given that term for purposes of title
XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396
et seq.).
(4) SUPPORTIVE HOUSING SERVICES.—The
term ‘‘supportive housing services’’ means—
(A) financial assistance with rental pay-
ments, room and board, or other housing
costs, as appropriate;
(B) case management and service coordina-
tion services; and
(C) housing support screening and referral
services provided in a healthcare setting.
SEC. 3. ESTABLISHING NIH CLINICAL TRIALS RE-
SEARCH NETWORK ON VIOLENCE
RECOVERY.
Part B of title IV of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 284 et seq.) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 409K. CLINICAL TRIALS RESEARCH NET-
WORK ON VIOLENCE RECOVERY.
‘‘(a) NETWORK.—The Director of NIH shall
develop and support a regional clinical re-
search center network, by awarding funding
to participants in accordance with sub-
section (b) through grants, contracts, or
other mechanisms, to study and evaluate
hospital- and community-based interven-
tions for victims of violent or penetrating in-
juries to prevent, mitigate, and furnish
treatments to address the trauma and men-
tal health impacts of those injuries on such
victims and prevent re-injury.
‘‘(b) PARTICIPANTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An entity seeking fund-
ing under this section shall—
‘‘(A) be a university or hospital; and
‘‘(B) submit an application to the Director
of NIH at such time, in such manner, and
containing such information as the Director
may require, including the information de-
scribed in paragraph (2).
‘‘(2) DEMONSTRATED EXPERTISE.—An appli-
cation submitted under paragraph (1)(B)
shall include information demonstrating
that the applicant has multidisciplinary ex-
pertise in—
‘‘(A) furnishing hospital- or community-
based interventions to improve outcomes for
patients suffering a violent or penetrating
injury;
‘‘(B) quality improvement research;
‘‘(C) linking clinical research with practice
and community outcomes and activities; and
‘‘(D) providing, linking to, or otherwise fa-
cilitating community-based care, case man-
agement, and treatment.
‘‘(3) SELECTION.—The Director of NIH shall,
subject to available funding, select not less
than 15 entities meeting the requirements of
this subsection to receive funding under this
section (provided that 15 or more entities
meeting such requirements apply for such
funding).
‘‘(c) ACTIVITIES AND USE OF FUNDS.—An en-
tity that receives funding under this section
shall use the funds to provide support for a
trauma-informed and violence re-injury pre-
vention research center, including funding
for—
‘‘(1) clinical, behavioral, or translational
research to test and evaluate trauma-in-
formed interventions for trauma recovery in
an effort to prevent and reduce violence-re-
lated re-injury, readmission, and mortality;
‘‘(2) the provision of screening, delivery of
post-injury mental health counseling, trau-
ma-informed care, education, discharge plan-
ning, skills building, and long-term case
management; and
‘‘(3) training researchers, clinicians, case
workers, mental health professionals, com-
munity health workers, and other appro-
priate providers to provide appropriate inter-
ventions described in paragraph (2).
‘‘(d) OUTCOMES MEASUREMENTS.—Any ac-
tivity supported under this section shall be
furnished with the aim of preventing and
mitigating the impact of trauma and mental
health consequences associated with a vio-
lent or penetrative injury, improve the over-
all health and well-being of individuals with
a violent or penetrative injury, and prevent
re-injury, readmission, and mortality.
‘‘(e) COORDINATION OF CONSORTIA ACTIVI-
TIES.—The Director of NIH shall, as appro-
priate—
‘‘(1) provide for the coordination of activi-
ties (including the exchange of information
and regular communication) among the enti-
ties receiving funding under this section; and
‘‘(2) require each entity receiving funding
under this section to prepare and submit to
the Director periodic reports on the activi-
ties of the entity that are supported by this
section.’’.
SEC. 4. HEALTH PROFESSIONS OPPORTUNITY
GRANTS.
(a) FUNDING.—Section 2008(c)(1) of the So-
cial Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397g(c)(1)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘, and $170,000,000 for
each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025’’ after
‘‘2019’’.
(b) MAKING HOSPITALS ELIGIBLE.—Section
2008(a)(4)(A) of such Act (42 U.S.C.
1397g(a)(4)(A)) is amended by striking ‘‘or a
community-based organization’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘, a community-based organization, or a
hospital (as defined in section 1861(e))’’.
(c) AID AND SUPPORTIVE SERVICES.—Section
2008(a)(2)(A)(i) of such Act (42 U.S.C.
1397g(a)(2)(A)(i)) is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘affordable’’ before ‘‘child
care’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘transportation, basic
skills and English language proficiency
training,’’after ‘‘case management,’’.
SEC. 5. HEALTH PROFESSIONS TRAINING FOR DI-
VERSITY PROGRAMS.
(a) CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE.—Section
736(c) of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 293(c)) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(4) PREFERENCE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In making grants under
subsection (a), the Secretary shall give pref-
erence to designated health professions
schools, or other public or nonprofit health
or educational entities, meeting the require-
ments of this section that propose to—
‘‘(i) carry out the activities supported by
this section in communities with a high rate
of community trauma; or
‘‘(ii) recruit participants for activities sup-
ported by this section from communities
with a high rate of community trauma.
‘‘(B) COMMUNITY WITH A HIGH RATE OF COM-
MUNITY TRAUMA.—For purposes of subpara-
graph (A), the term ‘community with a high
rate of community trauma’ means a commu-
nity with a high rate of intergenerational
poverty, civil unrest, or discrimination, and
may include—
‘‘(i) a community with an age-adjusted
rate of drug overdose deaths that is above
the national average for age-adjusted rates
of drug overdose deaths, as determined by
the Director of the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention; and
‘‘(ii) a community with an age-adjusted
rate of violence-related (or intentional) in-
jury deaths that is above the national aver-
age for age-adjusted rates of violence-related
(or intentional) injury deaths, as determined
by the Director of the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.’’.
(b) SCHOLARSHIPS FOR DISADVANTAGED STU-
DENTS.—Section 737(b) of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 293a(b)) is amended—
(1) in the subsection heading by striking
‘‘IN PROVIDING SCHOLARSHIPS’ ’’
(2) by striking ‘‘The Secretary’’ and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(1) PREFERENCE IN PROVIDING SCHOLAR-
SHIPS.—The Secretary’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) PREFERENCE TO ELIGIBLE ENTITIES PRO-
POSING TO SERVE COMMUNITIES WITH HIGH
RATES OF COMMUNITY TRAUMA.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In making grants under
this subsection (a), the Secretary shall give
preference to eligible entities that propose
to—
‘‘(i) carry out the activities supported by
this section in communities with a high rate
of community trauma; or
‘‘(ii) award scholarships under this section
to full-time students who are eligible indi-
viduals from communities with a high rate
of community trauma.
‘‘(B) COMMUNITY WITH A HIGH RATE OF COM-
MUNITY TRAUMA.—For purposes of subpara-
graph (A), the term ‘community with a high
rate of community trauma’ has the meaning
given that term in section 736(c)(4)(B).’’.
(c) HEALTH CAREERS OPPORTUNITY PRO-
GRAM.—Section 739(b) of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 293c(b)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through
(4) as subparagraphs (A) through (D), respec-
tively, and indenting appropriately;
(2) by striking ‘‘In making’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In making’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) PREFERENCE TO ELIGIBLE ENTITIES PRO-
POSING TO SERVE COMMUNITIES WITH HIGH
RATES OF COMMUNITY TRAUMA.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In making awards to eli-
gible entities under subsection (a)(1), the
Secretary shall give preference to approved
applications for programs proposing to—
‘‘(i) carry out the activities supported by
this section in communities with a high rate
of community trauma; or
‘‘(ii) recruit for activities supported by this
section individuals from disadvantaged back-
grounds, as so determined, from commu-
nities with a high rate of community trau-
ma.
‘‘(B) COMMUNITY WITH A HIGH RATE OF COM-
MUNITY TRAUMA.—For purposes of subpara-
graph (A), the term ‘community with a high
rate of community trauma’ has the meaning
given that term in section 736(c)(4)(B).’’.
(d) AREA HEALTH EDUCATION CENTERS.—
Section 751(b) of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 294a(b)) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(3) PREFERENCE TO ELIGIBLE ENTITIES PRO-
POSING TO SERVE COMMUNITIES WITH HIGH
RATES OF COMMUNITY TRAUMA.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In awarding grants
under subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2), the Sec-
retary shall give preference to eligible enti-
ties that propose to—
‘‘(i) carry out the activities supported by
this section in communities with a high rate
of community trauma; or
‘‘(ii) recruit participants for activities sup-
ported by this section from communities
with a high rate of community trauma.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.025 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6193
October 28, 2019
‘‘(B) COMMUNITY WITH A HIGH RATE OF COM-
MUNITY TRAUMA.—For purposes of subpara-
graph (A), the term ‘community with a high
rate of community trauma’ has the meaning
given that term in section 736(c)(4)(B).’’.
SEC. 6. DESIGNATION OF HEALTH PROFES-
SIONAL SHORTAGE AREAS; FUNDING
FOR THE NATIONAL HEALTH SERV-
ICE CORPS.
(a) DESIGNATION OF HEALTH PROFESSIONAL
SHORTAGE AREAS.—Section 332(a)(2) of the
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
254e(a)(2)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘(in-
cluding for the delivery of care provided by a
city or county health department to inmates
of a county or municipal jail)’’ after ‘‘county
health department’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘State
correctional institution’’ and inserting
‘‘State, county, or municipal correctional in-
stitution.’’.
(b) FUNDING FOR THE NATIONAL HEALTH
SERVICE CORPS.—Section 10503(b)(2) of the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
(42 U.S.C. 254b–2(b)(2)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (F), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a semicolon;
(2) in subparagraph (G), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(G) $360,000,000 for the period beginning on
November 22, 2019, and ending on September
30, 2020, and for each of fiscal years 2021
through 2025.’’.
SEC. 7. INCUMBENT WORKER TRAINING.
Section 134(d)(4)(A) of the Workforce Inno-
vation and Opportunity Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C.
3174(d)(4)(A)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating clauses (ii) and (iii) as
clauses (iii) and (iv), respectively;
(2) by inserting after clause (i) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(ii) GREATER RESERVATION OF FUNDS.—The
local board may reserve and use more than
20 percent of the funds so allocated, to pay
for the Federal share of the cost described in
clause (i), if the Secretary determines that
the local board has demonstrated that—
‘‘(I) there is a need and demand in the local
area for additional incumbent worker train-
ing program positions (beyond the positions
that could be offered through the reservation
described in clause (i)), including specifying
the number of employers and workers that
could be served through the additional pro-
gram positions;
‘‘(II) training through an incumbent work-
er training program that is in existence on
the day on which information is submitted
for the demonstration (referred to in this
clause as an ‘existing incumbent worker
training program’) has resulted in an incum-
bent worker of an employer acquiring new
skills that allow the worker to obtain a posi-
tion with such employer requiring higher
skills or a higher-paid position than the pre-
training position of the incumbent worker,
and the employer intends to hire an addi-
tional worker to fill the pre-training posi-
tion of the incumbent worker; and
‘‘(III) the effectiveness of the existing in-
cumbent worker training program of the em-
ployer referred to in subclause (II), as evalu-
ated on local performance measures based on
the primary indicators of performance speci-
fied in section 116(b)(2)(A)(i).’’; and
(3) in clause (iii), as redesignated by para-
graph (1) of this subsection, by striking
‘‘clause (i)’’ and inserting ‘‘clause (i) or (ii)’’.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 1143. Mr. JONES (for himself, Mr. BOOK-
ER, and Mrs. CAPITO) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1144. Mr. COONS submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1145. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1146. Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Mr.
KENNEDY) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1147. Mr. WHITEHOUSE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1148. Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. WARNER, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
KAINE, and Mr. CARDIN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1149. Ms. SMITH (for herself, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. TESTER, and Mr. RUBIO) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1150. Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr.
DAINES, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. TESTER, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. JONES, and Mr. PETERS) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1151. Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Ms.
SINEMA) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1152. Ms. McSALLY (for herself and Mr.
JONES) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 948 proposed
by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1153. Mrs. BLACKBURN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1154. Mrs. BLACKBURN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1155. Mrs. BLACKBURN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1156. Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. UDALL, and Mrs. FEINSTEIN)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1157. Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr.
BOOKER) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1158. Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr.
TESTER) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1159. Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr.
CRAMER, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. RUBIO, and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 948
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1160. Ms. ROSEN (for herself, Ms. COR-
TEZ MASTO, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Ms. HARRIS)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1161. Ms. ROSEN (for herself and Mrs.
FISCHER) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1162. Mr. THUNE (for himself and Mr.
UDALL) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1163. Ms. MCSALLY (for herself and
Mrs. GILLIBRAND) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1164. Mr. SCOTT, of South Carolina (for
himself and Mr. MENENDEZ) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1165. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1166. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1167. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1168. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1169. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1170. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1171. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1172. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1173. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1174. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1175. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.025 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6194 October 28, 2019
SA 1176. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1177. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1178. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1179. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1180. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1181. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1182. Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1183. Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Ms.
BALDWIN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1184. Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr. WAR-
NER, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. BROWN, and Mrs. MUR-
RAY) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 948 proposed
by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1185. Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Ms.
WARREN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1186. Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Ms.
WARREN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1187. Mr. MARKEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1188. Mr. MARKEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1189. Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr.
WHITEHOUSE) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 948
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1190. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1191. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1192. Mr. CRUZ submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1193. Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr.
MENENDEZ, and Mr. UDALL) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1194. Mr. CORNYN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1195. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1196. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. TOOMEY
(for himself and Mr. CASEY)) proposed an
amendment to the bill S. 134, to amend title
18, United States Code, with regard to stalk-
ing.
SA 1197. Mrs. GILLIBRAND submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and Jus-
tice, Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1198. Mr. BROWN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1199. Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
MURPHY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
REED, and Mr. WHITEHOUSE) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1200. Mr. REED submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1201. Mr. REED submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1202. Mr. REED submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1203. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1204. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1205. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1206. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1207. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1208. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1209. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1210. Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mr.
BRAUN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1211. Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Mr.
KAINE) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 948 proposed
by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1212. Mr. CORNYN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 1143. Mr. JONES (for himself, Mr.
BOOKER, and Mrs. CAPITO) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 164, line 21, strike ‘‘$1,500,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$3,000,000’’.
SA 1144. Mr. COONS submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in division A, in-
sert the following:
SEC. lll. ADDITIONAL AMOUNT FOR INDUS-
TRIAL TECHNOLOGY SERVICES.
(a) ADDITIONAL AMOUNT.—The amount ap-
propriated by this division under the heading
‘‘INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY SERVICES’’ under
the heading ‘‘NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STAND-
ARDS AND TECHNOLOGY’’ is hereby increased
by $17,500,000.
(b) AVAILABILITY.—
(1) HOLLINGS MANUFACTURING EXTENSION
PARTNERSHIP.—The amount made available
for the Hollings Manufacturing Extension
Partnership under the heading ‘‘INDUSTRIAL
TECHNOLOGY SERVICES’’ under the heading
‘‘NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND
TECHNOLOGY’’ is hereby increased by
$8,500,000.
(2) NATIONAL NETWORK FOR MANUFACTURING
INNOVATION.—The amount made available for
the National Network for Manufacturing In-
novation under the heading ‘‘INDUSTRIAL
TECHNOLOGY SERVICES’’ under the heading
‘‘NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND
TECHNOLOGY’’ is hereby increased by
$9,000,000.
SA 1145. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.018 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6195
October 28, 2019
SEC. 1ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to deny an ex-
tension request under section 668.105(h) of
title 23, Code of Federal Regulations.
SA 1146. Mr. DURBIN (for himself
and Mr. KENNEDY) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 38, line 18, strike ‘‘expenses’’ and
insert the following: ‘‘expenses: Provided,
That, using amounts made available under
this heading, the Drug Enforcement Admin-
istration shall continue to establish and uti-
lize data collection and sharing agreements
with other Federal agencies and continue to
consider other sources of information to
properly assess the estimated rates of over-
dose deaths and abuse and the overall public
health impact regarding covered controlled
substances as required under section 306(i) of
the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C.
826(i)), and shall report to the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate not later than
30 days after the date of enactment of this
Act regarding the establishment and utiliza-
tion of such data collection and sharing
agreements’’.
SA 1147. Mr. WHITEHOUSE sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 363, strike line 16 and all that fol-
lows through page 365, line 2.
SA 1148. Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for him-
self, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. WARNER, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. KAINE, and Mr. CARDIN)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) The Comptroller General of
the United States shall conduct a study eval-
uating the relocation of the Economic Re-
search Service and the National Institute of
Food and Agriculture (referred to in this sec-
tion as ‘‘the agencies’’).
(b) Not later than July 31, 2020, the Comp-
troller General of the United States shall
submit to the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate, the
Committee on Agriculture of the House of
Representatives, and the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the Senate and the House of
Representatives a report describing the re-
sults of the study conducted under sub-
section (a), including an evaluation of—
(1) whether the Department of Agriculture
properly and effectively considered, planned
for, and implemented the relocation of the
agencies; and
(2) how the relocation of the agencies is
impacting the agencies in achieving the mis-
sions of the agencies.
SA 1149. Ms. SMITH (for herself, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. TESTER, and Mr. RUBIO)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. In providing assistance under
title V of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C.
1471 et seq.) using amounts made available
under title III, the Secretary of Agriculture
shall prioritize the maintenance needs for
rural housing facilities and staff needs,
which shall include prioritizing—
(1) oversight of aging rental housing pro-
gram properties with capital repair needs;
(2) the needs of staff overseeing the Rural
Housing Service and field staff conducting
housing inspections; and
(3) enforcement against property owners
when those owners fail to make necessary re-
pairs.
SA 1150. Mr. GARDNER (for himself,
Mr. DAINES, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. TESTER,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. JONES, and Mr.
PETERS) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, the total amount made
available under the heading ‘‘COMMUNITY ORI-
ENTED POLICING SERVICES PROGRAMS (INCLUD-
ING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)’’ under the heading
‘‘COMMUNITY ORIENTED POLICING SERVICES’’
under the heading ‘‘DEPARTMENT OF JUS-
TICE’’ in this title shall be increased by
$1,000,000, which shall be used by increasing
by that amount the amount specified in
paragraph (3) under such headings for com-
petitive grants to State law enforcement
agencies in States with high seizures of pre-
cursor chemicals, finished methamphet-
amine, laboratories, and laboratory dump
seizures.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the total amount made available
for necessary expenses for information shar-
ing technology under the heading ‘‘JUSTICE
INFORMATION SHARING TECHNOLOGY (INCLUDING
TRANSFER OF FUNDS)’’ under the heading
‘‘GENERAL ADMINISTRATION’’ under the head-
ing ‘‘DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE’’ in this
title shall be decreased by $1,000,000.
SA 1151. Mr. CORNYN (for himself
and Ms. SINEMA) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
UNITED STATES-MEXICO BORDER PROGRAM
SEC. 4ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this division, funds made avail-
able under the heading ‘‘ENVIRONMENTAL
PROGRAMS AND MANAGEMENT’’ under the
heading ‘‘ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY’’ under title II shall be reduced by
$5,489,000, which shall be reduced from
amounts for Operations and Administration
as described in the report accompanying this
Act.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this division, the amount made available
under the heading ‘‘STATE AND TRIBAL AS-
SISTANCE GRANTS’’ under the heading ‘‘ENVI-
RONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY’’
under title II shall be increased by $5,489,000.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this division, the amount made available
under paragraph (2) under the heading
‘‘STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS’’
under the heading ‘‘ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY’’ under title II shall
be increased by $5,489,000.
SA 1152. Ms. MCSALLY (for herself
and Mr. JONES) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 1ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act or any other Act may be
used to adjust apportionments or withhold
funds from apportionments pursuant to sec-
tion 9503(e)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986.
SA 1153. Mrs. BLACKBURN sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. REDUCTION IN AMOUNT OF APPRO-
PRIATIONS.
Each amount made available under divi-
sion A, B, C, or D of this Act shall be reduced
by 5 percent.
SA 1154. Mrs. BLACKBURN sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. REDUCTION IN AMOUNT OF APPRO-
PRIATIONS.
Each amount made available under divi-
sion A, B, C, or D of this Act shall be reduced
by 2 percent.
SA 1155. Mrs. BLACKBURN sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.032 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6196 October 28, 2019
proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. REDUCTION IN AMOUNT OF APPRO-
PRIATIONS.
Each amount made available under divi-
sion A, B, C, or D of this Act shall be reduced
by 1 percent.
SA 1156. Mr. CORNYN (for himself,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. UDALL, and Mrs.
FEINSTEIN) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
SMITHSONIAN LATINO CENTER
SEC. 4ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this division, the amount made
available for necessary expenses of the
Smithsonian Institution under the heading
‘‘SALARIES AND EXPENSES’’ under the heading
‘‘SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION’’ under title III
shall be increased by $2,700,000 to provide ad-
ditional funding for the Smithsonian Latino
Center.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this division, funds made available for nec-
essary expenses for management of the De-
partment of the Interior and for grants and
cooperative agreements under the heading
‘‘DEPARTMENTAL OPERATIONS (INCLUDING
TRANSFER OF FUNDS)’’ under the heading ‘‘DE-
PARTMENTAL OFFICES—OFFICE OF THE SEC-
RETARY’’ under the heading ‘‘DEPARTMENT
OF THE INTERIOR’’ under title I shall be re-
duced by $2,700,000.
SA 1157. Mr. CORNYN (for himself
and Mr. BOOKER) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 124, line 14, strike ‘‘$331,114,000’’
and insert ‘‘$329,114,000’’.
On page 223, between lines 13 and 14, insert
the following:
SEC. ll. There is appropriated $2,000,000
to carry out section 30 of the Food and Nu-
trition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2036d).
SA 1158. Mr. DAINES (for himself
and Mr. TESTER) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 381, at the end of line 16, insert the
following: ‘‘Provided further, That for pur-
poses of funding direct operations under the
preceding proviso, the term ‘operations’, as
defined in FAA Order JO 7232.5G, shall also
include air traffic control services during
airport snow removal vehicle movements on
active runways/taxiways at any small hub
FAA contract tower airport with significant
snow removal operations and terrain chal-
lenges:’’.
SA 1159. Mr. CARDIN (for himself,
Mr. CRAMER, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. RUBIO, and
Mr. BLUMENTHAL) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 346, line 14, strike the period and
insert ‘‘: Provided, That, not later than 120
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Director of the United States Holocaust
Memorial Museum shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the Senate and
the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives a report that de-
scribes the efforts of the United States Holo-
caust Memorial Museum to support memory
and a range of educational programs relating
to the Holocaust, including the collection
and usage of historical documentation, such
as survivor testimony.’’.
SA 1160. Ms. ROSEN (for herself, Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and
Ms. HARRIS) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 230, line 18, insert ‘‘, of which
$4,088,000 shall be for activities under section
5(d)(2) of the Lake Tahoe Restoration Act
(Public Law 106–506; 114 Stat. 2353; 130 Stat.
1786)’’ after ‘‘2021’’.
SA 1161. Ms. ROSEN (for herself and
Mrs. FISCHER) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, the amount appro-
priated under this Act to the Rural Utilities
Service under the heading ‘‘DISTANCE LEARN-
ING, TELEMEDICINE, AND BROADBAND PRO-
GRAM’’ for grants for telemedicine and dis-
tance learning services in rural areas shall
be increased by $1,000,000.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the amount appropriated under this
Act to the Department of Agriculture under
the heading ‘‘AGRICULTURE BUILDINGS AND
FACILITIES’’ shall be reduced by $1,000,000.
SA 1162. Mr. THUNE (for himself and
Mr. UDALL) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title I of division C, add the
following:
LAW ENFORCEMENT REPORTING
SEC. 1ll. The Bureau of Indian Affairs
shall conduct a study to identify the law en-
forcement staffing needs of Indian Tribes,
which shall include—
(1) a detailed analysis, by Indian Tribe, of
law enforcement hiring impediments and
challenges;
(2) a strategy on how to recruit and train
law enforcement officers and fill law enforce-
ment vacancies; and
(3) a proposed strategy that could be used
to address the impediments and challenges
identified in paragraph (1).
SA 1163. Ms. MCSALLY (for herself
and Mrs. GILLIBRAND) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) There is appropriated
$3,000,000 to carry out the emergency and
transitional pet shelter and housing assist-
ance grant program established under sec-
tion 12502(b) of the Agriculture Improvement
Act of 2018 (34 U.S.C. 20127).
(b) The amount made available under the
heading ‘‘OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY’’ in title
I for necessary expenses of the Office of the
Secretary shall be reduced by $3,000,000,
which shall be derived by reducing the
amount provided under that heading for De-
partmental Administration by $3,000,000.
SA 1164. Mr. SCOTT of South Caro-
lina (for himself and Mr. MENENDEZ)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. (a) Each public housing agency,
in public housing owned or operated by the
public housing agency, and each owner of a
dwelling unit receiving project-based or ten-
ant-based assistance under section 8 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437f), section 202(j) of the Housing Act of
1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q(j)), section 811(j) of the
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable
Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013(j)), or section 856
of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Afford-
able Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 12905) shall en-
sure that carbon monoxide alarms are in-
stalled in each dwelling unit in a manner
that meets or exceeds the standards de-
scribed in chapters 9 and 11 of the 2018 publi-
cation of the International Fire Code, as
published by the International Code Council,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.033 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6197
October 28, 2019
or any other standards as may be adopted by
the Secretary, including any relevant up-
dates to the International Fire Code,
through a notice published in the Federal
Register.
(b) Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued to preempt or limit the applicability
of any State or local law relating to the in-
stallation and maintenance of carbon mon-
oxide alarms in housing that requires stand-
ards that are more stringent than the stand-
ards described in this section.
(c) The Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development shall provide guidance to pub-
lic housing agencies on how to educate ten-
ants on health hazards in the home, includ-
ing carbon monoxide poisoning, lead poi-
soning, asthma induced by housing-related
allergens, and other housing-related prevent-
able outcomes, to help advance primary pre-
vention and prevent future deaths and other
harms.
(d) The Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development, in consultation with the Con-
sumer Product Safety Commission, shall
conduct a study and issue a publicly avail-
able report on requiring carbon monoxide
alarms in Federally assisted housing that is
not covered by this section.
(e) In this section, the terms ‘‘public hous-
ing’’ and ‘‘public housing agency’’ have the
meanings given those terms in section 3(b) of
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437a(b)).
SA 1165. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
In the matter under the heading ‘‘TRANSIT
FORMULA GRANTS (LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT
AUTHORIZATION) (LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)’’ under the heading
‘‘FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION’’ in title
I of division D, strike ‘‘Provided, That funds
available for the implementation or execu-
tion of programs authorized under 49 U.S.C.
5305, 5307, 5310, 5311, 5312, 5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6),
5335, 5337, 5339, and 5340, as amended by the
Fixing America’s Surface Transportation
Act, section 20005(b) of Public Law 112–141,
and section 3006(b) of the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation Act, shall not exceed
total obligations of $10,150,348,462 in fiscal
year 2020:’’ and insert the following: ‘‘Pro-
vided, That total obligations for the imple-
mentation or execution of programs author-
ized under sections 5305, 5307, 5310, 5311, 5312,
5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 5340
of title 49, United States Code, section
20005(b) of the Moving Ahead for Progress in
the 21st Century Act (49 U.S.C. 5303 note;
Public Law 112–141), and section 3006(b) of
the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation
Act (49 U.S.C. 5310 note; Public Law 114–94) in
fiscal year 2020 shall not exceed the net mass
transit receipts most recently estimated for
that fiscal year by the Secretary of the
Treasury under section 9503(e)(4) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986:’’.
SA 1166. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
In title I of division D, strike section 164.
SA 1167. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 371, line 25, strike ‘‘Provided’’ and
all that follows through ‘‘projects:’’ on page
372, line 4.
SA 1168. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 397, line 19, strike ‘‘up to 100 per-
cent’’ and insert ‘‘determined in accordance
with section 120 of title 23, United States
Code’’.
SA 1169. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 369, lines 11 and 12, strike ‘‘in-
clude, but not be limited to,’’ and insert
‘‘be’’.
SA 1170. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 372, line 12, strike ‘‘determines.’’
and insert ‘‘determines: Provided further,
That none of the funds provided under this
heading shall be used for projects described
in section 133(b)(3) of title 23, United States
Code.’’.
SA 1171. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 1ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to carry out
section 313 of title 23, United States Code.
SA 1172. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to prohibit a
telecommunications provider from using an
unmanned aerial vehicle for surveying,
maintaining, or managing telecommuni-
cations infrastructure on Federal land.
SA 1173. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. None of the funds made avail-
able under this Act may be used to carry out
section 55305(b) of title 46, United States
Code, with respect to any program described
in title V of this division.
SA 1174. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 97, strike lines 1 through 19 and in-
sert the following:
SEC. 506. If a final judgement has been en-
tered by a court, or if an agency takes a final
action for which there is no other remedy in
a court, that determines that any person in-
tentionally affixed a label bearing a ‘‘Made
in America’’ inscription, or any inscription
with the same meaning, to any product sold
in or shipped to the United States that is not
made in the United States, the person shall
be ineligible to receive any contract or sub-
contract made with funds made available in
this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspen-
sion, and ineligibility procedures described
in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48,
Code of Federal Regulations.
SA 1175. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 372, line 12, strike ‘‘determines.’’
and insert ‘‘determines: Provided further,
That none of the funds provided under this
heading shall be used for a project eligible
for assistance under the recreational trails
program under section 206 of title 23, United
States Code, or a pedestrian or bicycle
project under section 217 of title 23, United
States Code (other than a modification to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.023 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6198 October 28, 2019
comply with accessibility requirements
under the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.)).’’.
SA 1176. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 371, line 6, strike ‘‘Provided’’ and
all that follows through ‘‘Code:’’ on page 371,
line 9.
SA 1177. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 1ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act shall be used for the con-
struction, alteration, maintenance, or repair
of a project eligible under title 23, United
States Code, public transportation projects
eligible under chapter 53 of title 49, United
States Code, passenger and freight rail trans-
portation projects, or port infrastructure in-
vestments (including inland port infrastruc-
ture and land ports of entry) if that con-
struction, alteration, maintenance, or repair
does not provide an open, competitive proc-
ess that considers both domestic and inter-
national supplies of iron and steel products
used in the project.
SA 1178. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 211, line 23, strike ‘‘25’’ and insert
‘‘5’’.
SA 1179. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 1ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act shall be used to administer,
apply, or enforce requirements under sub-
chapter IV of chapter 31 of part A of subtitle
II of title 40, United States Code, or section
113 of title 23, United States Code, with re-
spect to a project eligible under title 23,
United States Code.
SA 1180. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to carry out
broad-based categorical eligibility pursuant
to clause (i)(B), (i)(C), or (ii) of section
273.2(j)(2) of title 7, Code of Federal Regula-
tions (or successor regulations).
SA 1181. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to carry out
section 273.24(f) of title 7, Code of Federal
Regulations (or successor regulations).
SA 1182. Mr. PETERS (for himself
and Mr. PORTMAN) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
GEOGRAPHIC PROGRAMS
SEC. 4ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this division, the amount made
available for Geographic Programs under the
heading ‘‘ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS AND
MANAGEMENT’’ under the heading ‘‘ENVI-
RONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY’’
under title II shall be increased by 3 percent,
and the amount made available for each Geo-
graphic Program described in the report ac-
companying this Act shall be increased by 3
percent.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this division, the amount authorized to be
transferred under the fourth paragraph
under the heading ‘‘ADMINISTRATIVE PROVI-
SIONS—ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY’’
under the heading ‘‘ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY’’ under title II shall
be increased by the additional amount made
available for the Great Lakes Restoration
Initiative under subsection (a).
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this division, funds made available under the
heading ‘‘ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS AND
MANAGEMENT’’ under the heading ‘‘ENVI-
RONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY’’
under title II for operations and administra-
tion, as specified in the report accompanying
this Act, shall be reduced by an amount
equal to the total amount additionally ap-
propriated for Geographic Programs under
subsection (a).
SA 1183. Mr. HOEVEN (for himself
and Ms. BALDWIN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place under the heading
‘‘OPERATIONS’’ under the heading ‘‘FEDERAL
AVIATION ADMINISTRATION’’ in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following: ‘‘Provided fur-
ther, That of the funds appropriated under
this heading, not less than $5,000,000 shall be
used, using lessons learned from the existing
Department of Transportation’s Forces to
Flyers research initiative or other prior
workforce development activities, to provide
competitive grants to flight schools that are
certificated under the Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration’s part 141 regulations and have
an established employment pathway with a
commercial air carrier operating under part
121 or 135 of such regulations to provide
flight training services to veterans of the
United States Armed Forces without prior
military pilot experience who are interested
in becoming airline pilots and, in awarding
such competitive grants, the Administrator
of the Federal Aviation Administration shall
prioritize flight schools that are accredited
by the Department of Education or hold a re-
stricted airline transport pilot letter of au-
thorization.’’.
SA 1184. Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr.
WARNER, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. BROWN, and
Mrs. MURRAY) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) Not later than 30 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, and before
a lease is entered into for any facilities of
the Economic Research Service or the Na-
tional Institute of Food and Agriculture in
the Kansas City metropolitan area, the Sec-
retary of Agriculture shall provide a cor-
rected cost-benefit analysis of the relocation
of those agencies to the Kansas City metro-
politan area to—
(1) the Committee on Agriculture, Nutri-
tion, and Forestry of the Senate;
(2) the Committee on Agriculture of the
House of Representatives;
(3) the Subcommittee on Agriculture,
Rural Development, Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, and Related Agencies of the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
(4) the Subcommittee on Agriculture,
Rural Development, Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, and Related Agencies of the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives.
(b) The cost-benefit analysis described in
subsection (a) shall include—
(1) an estimate of all costs associated with
the relocation, including costs related to the
attrition and resulting high vacancy rates
associated with the relocation and costs of
staff travel to offices in Washington, DC;
(2) an estimate of the expenses of renting
space in Washington, DC, as compared to a
comparable amount of space in the Kansas
City metropolitan area, using General Serv-
ices Administration acceptable rental rates
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.035 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6199
October 28, 2019
for Washington, DC, and the Kansas City
metropolitan area, as applicable;
(3) an analysis of current Department of
Agriculture space in the National Capital
Region, and whether that space could be
used for the Economic Research Service or
the National Institute of Food and Agri-
culture; and
(4) an estimate of the costs resulting from
terminating any Economic Research Service
or National Institute of Food and Agri-
culture leases in Washington, DC, that are
no longer needed because of the relocation.
(c) In calculating the costs described in
subsection (b)(1), the Secretary of Agri-
culture shall provide an estimate of costs as-
sociated with—
(1) replacing employees who did not relo-
cate to the Kansas City metropolitan area;
(2) the loss of staff experience and exper-
tise, including providing the cumulative
years of experience of employees who did not
accept the reassignment to the Kansas City
metropolitan area; and
(3) the loss of the value of research that
will be delayed or not performed because of
the staff shortages associated with the relo-
cation.
SA 1185. Mr. MARKEY (for himself
and Ms. WARREN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 1ll. Section 1948 of SAFETEA–LU
(Public Law 109–59; 119 Stat. 1514) is amended
by striking ‘‘and the existing’’ and all that
follows through the period at the end and in-
serting ‘‘until the Governor of Massachu-
setts (or a designee) provides to the Sec-
retary a written certification that the demo-
lition will not facilitate fossil fuel develop-
ment in the region.’’.
SA 1186. Mr. MARKEY (for himself
and Ms. WARREN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 458, line 23, insert ‘‘(including en-
hanced vouchers for projects that have re-
ceived or are receiving State-funded interest
reduction payments), HOPE VI vouchers’’
after ‘‘Act’’.
SA 1187. Mr. MARKEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 365, between lines 18 and 19, insert
the following:
INCIDENTAL TAKING OF POLAR BEARS
SEC. 4ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act or any other Act may be
used to carry out the incidental taking of
polar bears under subparagraph (A)(i) or
clauses (i) through (v) of subparagraph (D) of
section 101(a)(5) of the Marine Mammal Pro-
tection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1371(a)(5)) in
furtherance of any oil or gas activity under-
taken pursuant to section 20001 of Public
Law 115–97 (commonly known as the ‘‘Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act’’).
SA 1188. Mr. MARKEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
SAFETY IN OFFSHORE DRILLING ACTIVITIES
SEC. 4ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this or any other Act may be used to
carry out a termination or diminishment of
effectiveness of any rule or rulemaking, if
the termination or diminishment of effec-
tiveness would reduce safety in offshore
drilling activities.
SA 1189. Mr. MARKEY (for himself
and Mr. WHITEHOUSE) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
PROPOSED OIL AND GAS LEASING PROGRAMS
SEC. 4ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this or any other Act may be used by
the Secretary of the Interior—
(1) to approve or carry out the 2019–2024 Na-
tional Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas
Leasing Draft Proposed Program issued by
the Secretary of the Interior in January 2018
under section 18 of the Outer Continental
Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1344); or
(2) to prepare, approve, or carry out any
other proposed oil and gas leasing program
under that section that would open up new
areas of the outer Continental Shelf to oil
and gas exploration, development, produc-
tion, or leasing.
SA 1190. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 493, line 9, strike ‘‘re-housing: Pro-
vided further,’’ and all that follows through
‘‘Care.’’ on line 17 and insert ‘‘re-housing.’’.
SA 1191. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to carry out the
final rule of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development entitled ‘‘Affirmatively
Furthering Fair Housing’’ (80 Fed. Reg. 42272
(July 16, 2015)) or to carry out the notice of
the Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment entitled ‘‘Affirmatively Furthering
Fair Housing Assessment Tool’’ (79 Fed. Reg.
57949 (September 26, 2014)).
SA 1192. Mr. CRUZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. 1ll. None of the funds made avail-
able under this Act may be used by any Fed-
eral department or agency to construct, op-
erate, or offer (in whole or in part) wholesale
or retail service on, a broadband network
without an authorization provided by an Act
of Congress.
SA 1193. Mr. CORNYN (for himself,
Mr. MENENDEZ, and Mr. UDALL) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 338, line 22, after the semicolon in-
sert the following: ‘‘Provided further, That of
the funds appropriated herein, not less than
$4,292,000 shall be made available for the
Smithsonian Latino Center and related ini-
tiative.’’.
SA 1194. Mr. CORNYN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 41, line 13, strike the period and
insert the following: ‘‘: Provided further, That
the Director of the Federal Prison System
may accept donated property or services re-
lating to the operation of recidivism reduc-
tion programs authorized under the First
Step Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–391).’’
SA 1195. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Beginning on page 397, strike line 22 and
all that follows through page 404, line 24, and
insert the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 16:07 Jan 08, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\OCTOBER\S28OC9.REC S28OC9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6200 October 28, 2019
SEC. 120. (a) Subject to subsection (d) and
notwithstanding any other provision of law,
for fiscal year 2020, the obligations for Fed-
eral-aid highway and highway safety con-
struction programs shall not exceed the net
highway receipts most recently estimated by
the Secretary of the Treasury for that fiscal
year under section 9503(d)(1)(B) of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986.
(b) For fiscal year 2020, the Secretary of
Transportation shall—
(1) not distribute from the obligation limi-
tation for Federal-aid highways—
(A) amounts authorized for administrative
expenses and programs by section 104(a) of
title 23, United States Code; and
(B) amounts authorized for the Bureau of
Transportation Statistics;
(2) not distribute an amount from the obli-
gation limitation for Federal-aid highways
that is equal to the unobligated balance of
amounts—
(A) made available from the Highway
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Ac-
count) for Federal-aid highway and highway
safety construction programs for previous
fiscal years the funds for which are allocated
by the Secretary (or apportioned by the Sec-
retary under sections 202 or 204 of title 23,
United States Code); and
(B) for which obligation limitation was
provided in a previous fiscal year;
(3) determine the proportion that—
(A) the obligation limitation for Federal-
aid highways, less the aggregate of amounts
not distributed under paragraphs (1) and (2)
of this subsection; bears to
(B) the total of the sums authorized to be
appropriated for the Federal-aid highway
and highway safety construction programs,
less the aggregate of the amounts not dis-
tributed under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this
subsection;
(4) distribute the obligation limitation for
Federal-aid highways, less the aggregate
amounts not distributed under paragraphs
(1) and (2), for each of the programs (other
than programs to which paragraph (1) ap-
plies) that are allocated by the Secretary
under the Fixing America’s Surface Trans-
portation Act and title 23, United States
Code, or apportioned by the Secretary under
sections 202 or 204 of that title, by multi-
plying—
(A) the proportion determined under para-
graph (3); by
(B) the amounts authorized to be appro-
priated for each such program for such fiscal
year; and
(5) distribute the obligation limitation for
Federal-aid highways, less the aggregate
amounts not distributed under paragraphs
(1) and (2) and the amounts distributed under
paragraph (4), for Federal-aid highway and
highway safety construction programs that
are apportioned by the Secretary under title
23, United States Code (other than the
amounts apportioned under sections 202 and
204 of title 23, United States Code) in the pro-
portion that—
(A) amounts authorized to be appropriated
for the programs that are apportioned under
title 23, United States Code, to each State
for such fiscal year; bears to
(B) the total of the amounts authorized to
be appropriated for the programs that are
apportioned under title 23, United States
Code, to all States for such fiscal year.
(c) REDISTRIBUTION OF UNUSED OBLIGATION
AUTHORITY.—Notwithstanding subsection (b),
the Secretary shall, after August 1 of such
fiscal year—
(1) revise a distribution of the obligation
limitation made available under subsection
(b) if an amount distributed cannot be obli-
gated during that fiscal year; and
(2) redistribute sufficient amounts to those
States able to obligate amounts in addition
to those previously distributed during that
fiscal year, giving priority to those States
having large unobligated balances of funds
apportioned under sections 144 (as in effect
on the day before the date of enactment of
Public Law 112–141) and 104 of title 23, United
States Code.
(d) APPLICABILITY OF OBLIGATION LIMITA-
TIONS TO TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH PRO-
GRAMS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the obligation limitation for
Federal-aid highways shall apply to contract
authority for transportation research pro-
grams carried out under—
(A) chapter 5 of title 23, United States
Code; and
(B) title VI of the Fixing America’s Sur-
face Transportation Act.
(2) EXCEPTION.—Obligation authority made
available under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) remain available for a period of 4 fiscal
years; and
(B) be in addition to the amount of any
limitation imposed on obligations for Fed-
eral-aid highway and highway safety con-
struction programs for future fiscal years.
(e) REDISTRIBUTION OF CERTAIN AUTHORIZED
FUNDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of distribution of obligation
limitation under subsection (b), the Sec-
retary shall distribute to the States any
funds (excluding funds authorized for the
program under section 202 of title 23, United
States Code) that—
(A) are authorized to be appropriated for
such fiscal year for Federal-aid highway pro-
grams; and
(B) the Secretary determines will not be
allocated to the States (or will not be appor-
tioned to the States under section 204 of title
23, United States Code), and will not be
available for obligation, for such fiscal year
because of the imposition of any obligation
limitation for such fiscal year.
(2) RATIO.—Funds shall be distributed
under paragraph (1) in the same proportion
as the distribution of obligation authority
under subsection (b)(5).
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Funds distributed to
each State under paragraph (1) shall be
available for any purpose described in sec-
tion 133(b) of title 23, United States Code.
SA 1196. Mr. McCONNELL (for Mr.
TOOMEY (for himself and Mr. CASEY))
proposed an amendment to the bill S.
134, to amend title 18, United States
Code, with regard to stalking; as fol-
lows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Combat On-
line Predators Act’’.
SEC. 2. ENHANCED PENALTY FOR STALKERS OF
CHILDREN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 110A of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 2261A the following:
‘‘§ 2261B. Enhanced penalty for stalkers of
children
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), if the victim of an offense
under section 2261A is under the age of 18
years, the maximum imprisonment for the
offense is 5 years greater than the maximum
term of imprisonment otherwise provided for
that offense in section 2261.
‘‘(b) LIMITATION.—Subsection (a) shall not
apply to a person who violates section 2261A
if—
‘‘(1) the person is subject to a sentence
under section 2261(b)(5); and
‘‘(2)(A) the person is under the age of 18 at
the time the offense occurred; or
‘‘(B) the victim of the offense is not less
than 15 nor more than 17 years of age and not
more than 3 years younger than the person
who committed the offense at the time the
offense occurred.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 110A of
title 18, United States Code, is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section
2261A the following new item:
‘‘2261B. Enhanced penalty for stalkers of
children.’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
2261A of title 18, United States Code, is
amended by striking ‘‘section 2261(b) of this
title’’ and inserting ‘‘section 2261(b) or sec-
tion 2261B, as the case may be’’.
SEC. 3. REPORT ON BEST PRACTICES REGARDING
ENFORCEMENT OF ANTI-STALKING
LAWS.
Not later than 1 year after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Attorney General
shall submit a report to Congress, which
shall—
(1) include an evaluation of Federal, Trib-
al, State, and local efforts to enforce laws re-
lating to stalking; and
(2) identify and describe those elements of
such efforts that constitute the best prac-
tices for the enforcement of such laws.
SA 1197. Mrs. GILLIBRAND sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. (a) Section 1210(a)(3) of the FAA
Reauthorization Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–
254; 132 Stat. 3186) is amended by striking
‘‘January 1, 2016’’ and inserting ‘‘October 1,
2012’’.
(b) The amendment made by subsection (a)
shall take effect as if included in the enact-
ment of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018
(Public Law 115–254; 132 Stat. 3186).
SA 1198. Mr. BROWN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. None of the funds made avail-
able to the Department of Housing and
Urban Development under this or any other
Act may be used to implement, administer,
enforce, or in any way make effective any
proposed rule that would result in the evic-
tion or exclusion of households with children
that were or would have been eligible for
rental housing assistance funded under this
title on October 1, 2019 from rental housing
assisted under this title.
SA 1199. Mr. MENENDEZ (for him-
self, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. REED, and Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.024 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6201
October 28, 2019
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 238, line 5, strike the period and
insert the following ‘‘: Provided further, That,
of the funds made available under this head-
ing, $3,576,000 shall be made available for the
Partnership Wild and Scenic Rivers program
and similarly managed rivers.’’.
SA 1200. Mr. REED submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
In the matter under the heading ‘‘CAPITAL
INVESTMENT GRANTS’’ under the heading
‘‘FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION’’ in title
I of division D, insert after ‘‘September 30,
2023:’’ the following: ‘‘Provided, That of the
amounts made available under this heading,
$1,935,000,000 shall be allocated by December
31, 2021: Provided further, That any remaining
funds required to be allocated by the pre-
vious proviso that remain available on De-
cember 31, 2021, shall be allocated to projects
under section 3005(b) of the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 5309
note; Public Law 114–94), projects that are in
the engineering phase under subsection (d)(2)
or (e)(2) of section 5309 of title 49, United
States Code, on that date, or small start
projects that are in the project development
phase under subsection (h)(2) of such section
5309 on that date, and upon allocation shall
be available for immediate obligation:’’.
SA 1201. Mr. REED submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
In the matter under the heading ‘‘CAPITAL
INVESTMENT GRANTS’’ under the heading
‘‘FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION’’ in title
I of division D, insert after ‘‘September 30,
2023:’’ the following: ‘‘Provided, That of the
amounts made available under this heading,
$1,935,000,000 shall be allocated by December
31, 2021: Provided further, That any remaining
funds required to be allocated by the pre-
vious proviso that remain available on De-
cember 31, 2021, shall be allocated to projects
under section 3005(b) of the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. 5309
note; Public Law 114–94), projects that are in
the engineering phase under subsection (d)(2)
or (e)(2) of section 5309 of title 49, United
States Code, on that date, or small start
projects that are in the project development
phase under subsection (h)(2) of such section
5309 on that date, and upon allocation shall
be available for immediate obligation:’’.
SA 1202. Mr. REED submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, the amount appro-
priated under the heading ‘‘SALARIES AND EX-
PENSES’’ under the heading ‘‘ANIMAL AND
PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE’’ in title
I shall be increased by $1,000,000, to remain
available until expended, which shall be for
surveillance, testing, prevention, and re-
search relating to Eastern equine encepha-
litis in impacted States.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the amount appropriated under this
Act to the Department of Agriculture for the
‘‘Office of the Chief Economist’’ shall be
$23,286,000.
SA 1203. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. ll. None of the funds appropriated
by this Act to the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration may be used to enforce standards of
identity with respect to a food that would be
considered adulterated under section 402 of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 342) or misbranded under section
403 of such Act (21 U.S.C. 343) for the sole
reason that the labeling of such food con-
tains a common or usual name of another
food, provided that the name of such other
food on the label is preceded by a promi-
nently displayed qualifying prefix, word, or
phrase that identifies—
(1) an alternative plant or animal source
that replaces some or all of the main charac-
terizing ingredient or component of such
other food; or
(2) the absence of a primary characterizing
plant or animal source, or of a nutrient, al-
lergen, or other well-known component, that
is ordinarily present in such other food.
SA 1204. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 241, lines 5 and 6, strike ‘‘and for
acquisition of lands or waters, or interest
therein,’’.
SA 1205. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 231, lines 12 and 13, strike ‘‘and for
acquisition of land or waters, or interest
therein,’’.
SA 1206. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 227, lines 2 and 3, strike ‘‘and ac-
quisition of lands and interests therein,’’.
SA 1207. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 225, lines 19 and 20, strike ‘‘ex-
penses and acquisition of lands or waters, or
interests therein,’’ and insert ‘‘expenses,’’.
SA 1208. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 230, beginning on line 5, strike
‘‘Appropriations’’ and all that follows
through line 10.
SA 1209. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Beginning on page 225, strike line 15 and
all that follows through page 241, line 23, and
insert the following:
LAND ACQUISITION
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary to carry out sec-
tions 205, 206, and 318(d) of Public Law 94–579,
including administrative expenses,
$28,800,000, to be derived from the Land and
Water Conservation Fund and to remain
available until expended.
Of the unobligated balances from amounts
made available for Land Acquisition and de-
rived from the Land and Water Conservation
Fund, $2,367,000 is hereby permanently re-
scinded from projects with cost savings or
failed or partially failed projects: Provided,
That no amounts may be rescinded from
amounts that were designated by the Con-
gress as an emergency requirement pursuant
to the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget
or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
OREGON AND CALIFORNIA GRANT LANDS
For expenses necessary for management,
protection, and development of resources and
for construction, operation, and mainte-
nance of access roads, reforestation, and
other improvements on the revested Oregon
and California Railroad grant lands, on other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.034 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6202 October 28, 2019
Federal lands in the Oregon and California
land-grant counties of Oregon, and on adja-
cent rights-of-way; and acquisition of lands
or interests therein, including existing con-
necting roads on or adjacent to such grant
lands; $106,985,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That 25 percent of the
aggregate of all receipts during the current
fiscal year from the revested Oregon and
California Railroad grant lands is hereby
made a charge against the Oregon and Cali-
fornia land-grant fund and shall be trans-
ferred to the General Fund in the Treasury
in accordance with the second paragraph of
subsection (b) of title II of the Act of August
28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 2605).
RANGE IMPROVEMENTS
For rehabilitation, protection, and im-
provement of Federal rangelands pursuant to
section 401 of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1751), not-
withstanding any other Act, sums equal to 50
percent of all moneys received during the
prior fiscal year under sections 3 and 15 of
the Taylor Grazing Act (43 U.S.C. 315b, 315m)
and the amount designated for range im-
provements from grazing fees and mineral
leasing receipts from Bankhead-Jones lands
transferred to the Department of the Inte-
rior pursuant to law, but not less than
$10,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That not to exceed $600,000
shall be available for administrative ex-
penses.
SERVICE CHARGES, DEPOSITS, AND FORFEITURES
For administrative expenses and other
costs related to processing application docu-
ments and other authorizations for use and
disposal of public lands and resources, for
costs of providing copies of official public
land documents, for monitoring construc-
tion, operation, and termination of facilities
in conjunction with use authorizations, and
for rehabilitation of damaged property, such
amounts as may be collected under Public
Law 94–579 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and under
section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30
U.S.C. 185), to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That notwithstanding any
provision to the contrary of section 305(a) of
Public Law 94–579 (43 U.S.C. 1735(a)), any
moneys that have been or will be received
pursuant to that section, whether as a result
of forfeiture, compromise, or settlement, if
not appropriate for refund pursuant to sec-
tion 305(c) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1735(c)),
shall be available and may be expended
under the authority of this Act by the Sec-
retary to improve, protect, or rehabilitate
any public lands administered through the
Bureau of Land Management which have
been damaged by the action of a resource de-
veloper, purchaser, permittee, or any unau-
thorized person, without regard to whether
all moneys collected from each such action
are used on the exact lands damaged which
led to the action: Provided further, That any
such moneys that are in excess of amounts
needed to repair damage to the exact land
for which funds were collected may be used
to repair other damaged public lands.
MISCELLANEOUS TRUST FUNDS
In addition to amounts authorized to be
expended under existing laws, there is hereby
appropriated such amounts as may be con-
tributed under section 307 of Public Law 94–
579 (43 U.S.C. 1737), and such amounts as may
be advanced for administrative costs, sur-
veys, appraisals, and costs of making con-
veyances of omitted lands under section
211(b) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1721(b)), to re-
main available until expended.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
The Bureau of Land Management may
carry out the operations funded under this
Act by direct expenditure, contracts, grants,
cooperative agreements and reimbursable
agreements with public and private entities,
including with States. Appropriations for the
Bureau shall be available for purchase, erec-
tion, and dismantlement of temporary struc-
tures, and alteration and maintenance of
necessary buildings and appurtenant facili-
ties to which the United States has title; up
to $100,000 for payments, at the discretion of
the Secretary, for information or evidence
concerning violations of laws administered
by the Bureau; miscellaneous and emergency
expenses of enforcement activities author-
ized or approved by the Secretary and to be
accounted for solely on the Secretary’s cer-
tificate, not to exceed $10,000: Provided, That
notwithstanding Public Law 90–620 (44 U.S.C.
501), the Bureau may, under cooperative
cost-sharing and partnership arrangements
authorized by law, procure printing services
from cooperators in connection with jointly
produced publications for which the coopera-
tors share the cost of printing either in cash
or in services, and the Bureau determines
the cooperator is capable of meeting accept-
ed quality standards: Provided further, That
projects to be funded pursuant to a written
commitment by a State government to pro-
vide an identified amount of money in sup-
port of the project may be carried out by the
Bureau on a reimbursable basis. Appropria-
tions herein made shall not be available for
the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild
horses and burros in the care of the Bureau
or its contractors or for the sale of wild
horses and burros that results in their de-
struction for processing into commercial
products.
UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
For necessary expenses of the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service, as author-
ized by law, and for scientific and economic
studies, general administration, and for the
performance of other authorized functions
related to such resources, $1,357,182,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2021: Pro-
vided, That not to exceed $18,318,000 shall be
used for implementing subsections (a), (b),
(c), and (e) of section 4 of the Endangered
Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1533) (except for
processing petitions, developing and issuing
proposed and final regulations, and taking
any other steps to implement actions de-
scribed in subsection (c)(2)(A), (c)(2)(B)(i), or
(c)(2)(B)(ii)).
CONSTRUCTION
For construction, improvement, acquisi-
tion, or removal of buildings and other fa-
cilities required in the conservation, man-
agement, investigation, protection, and uti-
lization of fish and wildlife resources, and
the acquisition of lands and interests there-
in; $43,226,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
LAND ACQUISITION
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary to carry out chap-
ter 2003 of title 54, United States Code, in-
cluding administrative expenses, in accord-
ance with statutory authority applicable to
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service,
$58,770,000, to be derived from the Land and
Water Conservation Fund and to remain
available until expended: Provided, That
none of the funds appropriated for specific
land acquisition projects may be used to pay
for any administrative overhead, planning or
other management costs.
Of the unobligated balances from amounts
made available for the Fish and Wildlife
Service and derived from the Land and Water
Conservation Fund, $3,628,000 is hereby per-
manently rescinded from projects with cost
savings or failed or partially failed projects:
Provided further, That no amounts may be re-
scinded from amounts that were designated
by the Congress as an emergency require-
ment pursuant to the Concurrent Resolution
on the Budget or the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
COOPERATIVE ENDANGERED SPECIES
CONSERVATION FUND
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary to carry out sec-
tion 6 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973
(16 U.S.C. 1535), $53,495,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, of which $22,695,000 is to
be derived from the Cooperative Endangered
Species Conservation Fund; and of which
$30,800,000 is to be derived from the Land and
Water Conservation Fund.
Of the unobligated balances made available
from the Cooperative Endangered Species
Conservation Fund, $18,771,000 is perma-
nently rescinded from projects or from other
grant programs with an unobligated carry
over balance: Provided, That no amounts
may be rescinded from amounts that were
designated by the Congress as an emergency
requirement pursuant to the Concurrent
Resolution on the Budget or the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE FUND
For expenses necessary to implement the
Act of October 17, 1978 (16 U.S.C. 715s),
$13,228,000.
NORTH AMERICAN WETLANDS CONSERVATION
FUND
For expenses necessary to carry out the
provisions of the North American Wetlands
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4401 et seq.),
$44,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
NEOTROPICAL MIGRATORY BIRD CONSERVATION
For expenses necessary to carry out the
Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation
Act (16 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), $4,910,000, to re-
main available until expended.
MULTINATIONAL SPECIES CONSERVATION FUND
For expenses necessary to carry out the
African Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C.
4201 et seq.), the Asian Elephant Conserva-
tion Act of 1997 (16 U.S.C. 4261 et seq.), the
Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of
1994 (16 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), the Great Ape
Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6301 et
seq.), and the Marine Turtle Conservation
Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.), $12,800,000,
to remain available until expended.
STATE AND TRIBAL WILDLIFE GRANTS
For wildlife conservation grants to States
and to the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico,
Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the
Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa,
and Indian tribes under the provisions of the
Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 and the Fish
and Wildlife Coordination Act, for the devel-
opment and implementation of programs for
the benefit of wildlife and their habitat, in-
cluding species that are not hunted or fished,
$65,171,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That of the amount pro-
vided herein, $4,809,000 is for a competitive
grant program for Indian tribes not subject
to the remaining provisions of this appro-
priation: Provided further, That $6,362,000 is
for a competitive grant program to imple-
ment approved plans for States, territories,
and other jurisdictions and at the discretion
of affected States, the regional Associations
of fish and wildlife agencies, not subject to
the remaining provisions of this appropria-
tion: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall, after deducting $10,571,000 and adminis-
trative expenses, apportion the amount pro-
vided herein in the following manner: (1) to
the District of Columbia and to the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico, each a sum equal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.037 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6203
October 28, 2019
to not more than one-half of 1 percent there-
of; and (2) to Guam, American Samoa, the
United States Virgin Islands, and the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,
each a sum equal to not more than one-
fourth of 1 percent thereof: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall apportion the re-
maining amount in the following manner: (1)
one-third of which is based on the ratio to
which the land area of such State bears to
the total land area of all such States; and (2)
two-thirds of which is based on the ratio to
which the population of such State bears to
the total population of all such States: Pro-
vided further, That the amounts apportioned
under this paragraph shall be adjusted equi-
tably so that no State shall be apportioned a
sum which is less than 1 percent of the
amount available for apportionment under
this paragraph for any fiscal year or more
than 5 percent of such amount: Provided fur-
ther, That the Federal share of planning
grants shall not exceed 75 percent of the
total costs of such projects and the Federal
share of implementation grants shall not ex-
ceed 65 percent of the total costs of such
projects: Provided further, That the non-Fed-
eral share of such projects may not be de-
rived from Federal grant programs: Provided
further, That any amount apportioned in 2020
to any State, territory, or other jurisdiction
that remains unobligated as of September 30,
2021, shall be reapportioned, together with
funds appropriated in 2022, in the manner
provided herein.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
The United States Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice may carry out the operations of Service
programs by direct expenditure, contracts,
grants, cooperative agreements and reim-
bursable agreements with public and private
entities. Appropriations and funds available
to the United States Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice shall be available for repair of damage to
public roads within and adjacent to reserva-
tion areas caused by operations of the Serv-
ice; options for the purchase of land at not to
exceed $1 for each option; facilities incident
to such public recreational uses on conserva-
tion areas as are consistent with their pri-
mary purpose; and the maintenance and im-
provement of aquaria, buildings, and other
facilities under the jurisdiction of the Serv-
ice and to which the United States has title,
and which are used pursuant to law in con-
nection with management, and investigation
of fish and wildlife resources: Provided, That
notwithstanding 44 U.S.C. 501, the Service
may, under cooperative cost sharing and
partnership arrangements authorized by law,
procure printing services from cooperators
in connection with jointly produced publica-
tions for which the cooperators share at
least one-half the cost of printing either in
cash or services and the Service determines
the cooperator is capable of meeting accept-
ed quality standards: Provided further, That
the Service may accept donated aircraft as
replacements for existing aircraft: Provided
further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302,
all fees collected for non-toxic shot review
and approval shall be deposited under the
heading ‘‘United States Fish and Wildlife
Service—Resource Management’’ and shall
be available to the Secretary, without fur-
ther appropriation, to be used for expenses of
processing of such non-toxic shot type or
coating applications and revising regulations
as necessary, and shall remain available
until expended.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
OPERATION OF THE NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
For expenses necessary for the manage-
ment, operation, and maintenance of areas
and facilities administered by the National
Park Service and for the general administra-
tion of the National Park Service,
$2,564,597,000, of which $10,032,000 shall be for
planning and interagency coordination in
support of Everglades restoration and
$135,980,000 shall be for maintenance, repair,
or rehabilitation projects for constructed as-
sets and $153,575,000 for cyclic maintenance
projects for constructed assets and cultural
resources shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That funds appro-
priated under this heading in this Act are
available for the purposes of section 5 of
Public Law 95–348: Provided further, That not-
withstanding section 9(a) of the United
States Semiquincentennial Commission Act
of 2016 (Public Law 114–196; 130 Stat. 691),
$3,300,000 of the funds made available under
this heading shall be provided to the organi-
zation selected under section 9(b) of that Act
for expenditure by the United States
Semiquincentennial Commission in accord-
ance with that Act.
NATIONAL RECREATION AND PRESERVATION
For expenses necessary to carry out recre-
ation programs, natural programs, cultural
programs, heritage partnership programs,
environmental compliance and review, inter-
national park affairs, and grant administra-
tion, not otherwise provided for, $68,084,000.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND
For expenses necessary in carrying out the
National Historic Preservation Act (division
A of subtitle III of title 54, United States
Code), $113,160,000, to be derived from the
Historic Preservation Fund and to remain
available until September 30, 2020, of which
$14,000,000 shall be for Save America’s Treas-
ures grants for preservation of national sig-
nificant sites, structures and artifacts as au-
thorized by section 7303 of the Omnibus Pub-
lic Land Management Act of 2009 (54 U.S.C.
3089): Provided, That an individual Save
America’s Treasures grant shall be matched
by non-Federal funds: Provided further, That
individual projects shall only be eligible for
one grant: Provided further, That all projects
to be funded shall be approved by the Sec-
retary of the Interior in consultation with
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations: Provided further, That of the funds
provided for the Historic Preservation Fund,
$750,000 is for competitive grants for the sur-
vey and nomination of properties to the Na-
tional Register of Historic Places and as Na-
tional Historic Landmarks associated with
communities currently under-represented, as
determined by the Secretary, $16,250,000 is
for competitive grants to preserve the sites
and stories of the Civil Rights movement,
$9,000,000 is for grants to Historically Black
Colleges and Universities, and $7,500,000 is for
competitive grants for the restoration of his-
toric properties of national, State and local
significance listed on or eligible for inclusion
on the National Register of Historic Places,
to be made without imposing the usage or di-
rect grant restrictions of section 101(e)(3) (54
U.S.C. 302904) of the National Historical
Preservation Act: Provided further, That such
competitive grants shall be made without
imposing the matching requirements in sec-
tion 302902(b)(3) of title 54, United States
Code, to States and Indian tribes as defined
in chapter 3003 of such title, Native Hawaiian
organizations, local governments, including
Certified Local Governments, and non-profit
organizations.
CONSTRUCTION
For construction, improvements, repair, or
replacement of physical facilities, and com-
pliance and planning for programs and areas
administered by the National Park Service,
$392,185,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, for any project ini-
tially funded in fiscal year 2020 with a future
phase indicated in the National Park Service
5-Year Line Item Construction Plan, a single
procurement may be issued which includes
the full scope of the project: Provided further,
That the solicitation and contract shall con-
tain the clause availability of funds found at
48 CFR 52.232–18: Provided further, That Na-
tional Park Service Donations, Park Conces-
sions Franchise Fees, and Recreation Fees
may be made available for the cost of adjust-
ments and changes within the original scope
of effort for projects funded by the National
Park Service Construction appropriation:
Provided further, That the Secretary of the
Interior shall consult with the Committees
on Appropriations, in accordance with cur-
rent reprogramming thresholds, prior to
making any charges authorized by this sec-
tion.
LAND ACQUISITION AND STATE ASSISTANCE
(INCLUDING RESCISSION OF FUNDS)
For expenses necessary to carry out chap-
ter 2003 of title 54, United States Code, in-
cluding administrative expenses, in accord-
ance with the statutory authority applicable
to the National Park Service, $199,899,000, to
be derived from the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund and to remain available until
expended, of which $140,000,000 is for the
State assistance program and of which
$10,000,000 shall be for the American Battle-
field Protection Program grants as author-
ized by chapter 3081 of title 54, United States
Code.
Of the unobligated balances from amounts
made available for the National Park Serv-
ice and derived from the Land and Water
Conservation Fund, $2,279,000 is hereby per-
manently rescinded from projects or from
other grant programs with an unobligated
carry over balance: Provided, That no
amounts may be rescinded from amounts
that were designed by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to the Con-
current Resolution on the Budget or the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
SA 1210. Mr. YOUNG (for himself and
Mr. BRAUN) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 221, strike lines 5 through 17.
SA 1211. Mr. BLUNT (for himself and
Mr. KAINE) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 238, line 5, strike the period and
insert the following: ‘‘: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding sections 7(b), 8, and 9
of the 400 Years of African-American History
Commission Act (36 U.S.C. note prec. 101;
Public Law 115–102), of the amount made
available under this heading, $500,000 shall be
provided to the 400 Years of African-Amer-
ican History Commission for expenditure on
activities authorized by that Act through
July 1, 2021.’’.
SA 1212. Mr. CORNYN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.037 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6204 October 28, 2019
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 58, line 4, insert ‘‘, including
court-ordered assisted outpatient treatment
as authorized by section 2201 of title I of the
1968 Act (34 U.S.C. 10471),’’ after ‘‘courts’’.
f
COMBAT ONLINE PREDATORS ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of S. 134 and
the Senate proceed to its immediate
consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 134) to amend title 18, United
States Code, with regard to stalking.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to proceeding to the meas-
ure?
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Toomey amendment
at the desk be agreed to, and the bill,
as amended, be considered read a third
time and passed, and the motion to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 1196) was agreed
to as follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Combat On-
line Predators Act’’.
SEC. 2. ENHANCED PENALTY FOR STALKERS OF
CHILDREN.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 110A of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 2261A the following:
‘‘§ 2261B. Enhanced penalty for stalkers of
children
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), if the victim of an offense
under section 2261A is under the age of 18
years, the maximum imprisonment for the
offense is 5 years greater than the maximum
term of imprisonment otherwise provided for
that offense in section 2261.
‘‘(b) LIMITATION.—Subsection (a) shall not
apply to a person who violates section 2261A
if—
‘‘(1) the person is subject to a sentence
under section 2261(b)(5); and
‘‘(2)(A) the person is under the age of 18 at
the time the offense occurred; or
‘‘(B) the victim of the offense is not less
than 15 nor more than 17 years of age and not
more than 3 years younger than the person
who committed the offense at the time the
offense occurred.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 110A of
title 18, United States Code, is amended by
inserting after the item relating to section
2261A the following new item:
‘‘2261B. Enhanced penalty for stalkers of
children.’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
2261A of title 18, United States Code, is
amended by striking ‘‘section 2261(b) of this
title’’ and inserting ‘‘section 2261(b) or sec-
tion 2261B, as the case may be’’.
SEC. 3. REPORT ON BEST PRACTICES REGARDING
ENFORCEMENT OF ANTI-STALKING
LAWS.
Not later than 1 year after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Attorney General
shall submit a report to Congress, which
shall—
(1) include an evaluation of Federal, Trib-
al, State, and local efforts to enforce laws re-
lating to stalking; and
(2) identify and describe those elements of
such efforts that constitute the best prac-
tices for the enforcement of such laws.
The bill (S. 134), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time and
passed.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that if cloture is invoked, the
filing deadline for the first-degree
amendments to the Shelby substitute
amendment No. 948, and the underlying
bill, H.R. 3055, be at 2:30 p.m. tomor-
row.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, OCTOBER
29, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Tuesday, October
29; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in day, morning business be
closed, and the Senate resume consid-
eration of H.R. 3055; finally, that the
Senate recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15
p.m. to allow for the caucus meetings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:54 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday,
October 29, 2019, at 10 a.m.
f
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate October 28, 2019:
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
DAVID M. DEVILLERS, OF OHIO, TO BE UNITED STATES
ATTORNEY FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO FOR
THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A28OC6.037 S28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1343
October 28, 2019
IN RECOGNITION OF FISK JOHN-
SON’S APPOINTMENT TO THE
PRESIDENT’S COUNCIL OF ADVI-
SORS ON SCIENCE AND TECH-
NOLOGY
HON. BRYAN STEIL
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Fisk Johnson, Chairman and CEO
of SC Johnson & Son, Inc. For 133 years, SC
Johnson has been a cornerstone of Racine,
Wisconsin. President Trump was wise to se-
lect Fisk to serve on his Council of Advisors
on Science and Technology. Fisk is a vision-
ary. Fisk, now the fifth generation Johnson
family leader of SC Johnson, has continued
the family-owned company’s tradition of add-
ing good into the world.
Fisk’s passion to support his employees, to
create great products, and to make the world
a better place is evident in his work. SC John-
son has partnered with multiple organizations
to tackle issues facing Racine. From working
with Gateway Technical College to give work-
ers the education and technical skills they
need to obtain a good paying job, to ensuring
homeless veterans in Racine have a safe
place to go, Fisk continues to find ways to
make our community stronger.
Fisk’s commitment to environmental sustain-
ability has been nationally and internationally
recognized. I recently met with Fisk to hear
about the company’s ocean conservation ef-
forts. Through Fisk’s leadership, SC Johnson
partnered with Plastic Bank to give people in
countries like Thailand, Vietnam, and Indo-
nesia the opportunity to run recycling centers
to prevent plastic waste from entering the
ocean. This not only addresses an important
environmental issue, but allows residents of
these countries to earn a living, move out of
poverty, and support their families.
These are just a few examples of Fisk’s
work in Racine and across the globe.
On behalf of Wisconsin’s First Congres-
sional District, I thank Fisk Johnson for his
continued work in our community and through-
out the world. Congratulations on this appoint-
ment to the President’s Council of Advisors on
Science and Technology. Fisk’s leadership
and expertise will serve this nation well.
f
RECOGNIZING TECHNICAL SER-
GEANT PAT MINER, RECIPIENT
OF TEXAS’ THIRD CONGRES-
SIONAL DISTRICT 2019 CONGRES-
SIONAL VETERAN COMMENDA-
TION
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, today, it is
my privilege to honor twelve distinguished mili-
tary veterans from Texas’ Third Congressional
District who answered the call to serve their
Nation honorably, both in uniform and fol-
lowing their return to civilian life. The recipi-
ents of the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation exemplify the time-honored quali-
ties of patriotism, service before self, and bold
leadership. Following their time in service,
their efforts in our community have earned
these fine individuals recognition as the recipi-
ents of this prestigious commendation. Their
stories of sacrifice will encourage future gen-
erations to pursue a life dedicated to the very
values we cherish as Americans: faith, free-
dom, and democracy. One such hero is Tech-
nical Sergeant Pat Miner of Plano, Texas.
Technical Sergeant Patrick Miner had a
twenty-year career as an United States Air
Force Non-Commissioned Officer, beginning
his service in 1976 at Lockland Air Force Base
in Texas. During his time in the military, he
deployed to Japan with the 3rd Marine Divi-
sion as well as the Fleet Marine Force—Pa-
cific. During Operations Desert Shield and
Desert Storm, he served as a broadcast man-
ager at U.S. Central Command, supervising
communications and broadcasts to foreign
countries. As an Air Force Broadcast Jour-
nalist and Public Affairs Newscaster, his cov-
erage, including the 1982 release of American
hostages from Iran, would earn him two
Thomas Jefferson Awards, the Department of
Defense’s highest honor recognizing journal-
ists for outstanding achievements in furthering
their Internal Information Program.
As a decorated military veteran, Mr. Miner
received the Air Force Commendation Medal
three times, the Longevity Service Award
three times, the NCO Professional Military
Education Ribbon twice, the Organizational
Excellence Award twice, and the Good Con-
duct Medal five times.
Following his distinguished military career,
Pat worked as a television producer for the
Social Security Administration for twenty-three
years. Following his move to Plano in 1996,
Mr. Miner developed deep roots within the
community, holding roles on the Plano Inde-
pendent School District Council of PTAs, as
the President of the Plano Homeowners Coun-
cil, and on the Plano Transition and the Revi-
talization Commission. Giving back to the
community is of paramount importance to Mr.
Miner, and he was twice elected to the Plano
City Council, holding positions as the Mayor
Pro Tem and the Deputy Mayor Pro Tem.
Civic involvement is also an important compo-
nent of Pat’s life, as evidenced by his role as
Past-President of the North Texas Pioneers
Rotary Club for which he was recognized with
the Paul Harris Fellowship Award. Today, Pat
is currently working to recognize our first re-
sponders who have given all through his ef-
forts on the Plano Police and Firefighters Me-
morial Fund. Sergeant Patrick Miner is a
hometown hero who has served both his
country and community in meaningful ways
and we are honored to recognize him with this
award.
Today, a grateful Nation thanks Technical
Sergeant Miner for his exceptional service and
congratulates him on this recognition. May his
steadfast example of leadership inspire others
to live a life of service to a cause greater than
themselves. It is my extreme honor to award
him the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation for the Third District of Texas.
f
HONORING THE 1ST ANNUAL
MERCED COUNTY NUT FESTIVAL
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the first annual Merced County Nut Fes-
tival, an event celebrating the agricultural past,
present, and future of Merced County and fur-
thermore, the nut industry’s impact on our Val-
ley’s local economy.
California’s San Joaquin Valley is one of the
world’s top producers in almonds, walnuts,
and pistachios, contributing to California’s
ranking as the sixth largest economy in the
world. Together, the growers, hullers, and all
involved in the tree to table process in Cali-
fornia contribute to producing 80 percent of
the world’s almonds, which is also the state’s
top agricultural export.
The Merced County Nut Festival is the vi-
sion of Necola Adams, who saw the need to
celebrate those involved in our Valley’s nut in-
dustry while at the same time educating the
public about these crops that are present in all
parts of Merced County. After discussing this
idea for three years, Mrs. Adams put together
a committee of community leaders from var-
ious backgrounds to help make this vision a
reality.
The planning committee consisting of Mrs.
Adams, Gwen Hagaman, Cynthia Adams, Kim
McMillion, and Vicki Underwood collaborated
to ensure the success of this festival. They
contacted local businesses and community or-
ganizations, marketed the festival to local
stakeholders, and overcame any challenge
that arose.
The vision of the Merced County Nut Fes-
tival being an event to educate about the tree-
to-table process and one that brings together
members of the community to celebrate an in-
dustry uniting the county has been achieved
by the committee. This festival will feature
demonstrations from industry professionals,
food cooked by Merced chefs, and live music
from local bands. Any of the additional funds
raised will benefit local youth organizations in
Merced, signifying the vision that the festival
can bridge the local community to those in-
volved in the nut industry.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the Merced County Nut Fes-
tival during their inaugural year. It is both fit-
ting and appropriate that we honor them and
recognize the significant impact they will have
on the greater Merced community and nut in-
dustry this year and in future years.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:23 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC8.001 E28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1344 October 28, 2019
RECOGNIZING 30 YEARS OF EXEM-
PLARY SERVICE BY CAMP LIVE
OAK AND FOUNDER KEN EVANS
HON. THEODORE E. DEUTCH
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor 30 years of exemplary service to
South Florida by Camp Live Oak and its
Founder, Ken Evans. Under Ken’s direction,
Camp Live Oak has been a leader in chil-
dren’s environmental education since 1989.
As the only American Camp Association ac-
credited camp in Broward County since 1990,
Camp Live Oak believes that every child is
gifted and designs a challenging curriculum to
keep young minds sharp during school breaks.
It employs certified Broward County teachers
to help instill a sense of environmental stew-
ardship in its campers through beach clean-
ups, sea turtle education, native plantings, ,
and recycling initiatives.
Beyond the valuable services it provides to
its campers, Camp Live Oak continues to pro-
vide direct benefits to the local economy and
the environment. It draws employees and fam-
ilies from around the world, ensuring more dol-
lars are spent at businesses in our community.
In this role, Camp Live Oak has also been in-
strumental in the revitalization and preserva-
tion of Hugh Taylor Birch State Park by bring-
ing awareness, funds, and families to the park
for the last 30 years.
I ask that my colleagues join me in thanking
Ken Evans and Camp Live Oak for the amaz-
ing work they have done over the years to
educate the public and to help our environ-
ment.
f
125TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE NEW
YORK-PRESBYTERIAN WEST-
CHESTER DIVISION
HON. NITA M. LOWEY
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the New York-Presbyterian Westchester
Division, as it celebrated its 125th anniversary
on October 25, 2019.
Located in the City of White Plains, New
York-Presbyterian Westchester Division pro-
vides critical mental health care services to
New York metro area children, adolescents,
adults and seniors. The facility is staffed by
Weill Cornell Medicine clinicians, who work
diligently to study mental illness, provide pa-
tient-centered care, and promote activities that
support mental health healing. Housed in gra-
cious buildings across 200 acres of beautifully
landscaped grounds, the hospital offers pa-
tients a tranquil environment to receive the
care they need and deserve.
For its high quality of services and commit-
ment to its patients, NewYork-Presbyterian
Westchester Division has received national
recognition for excellence in nursing from the
American Nurses Credentialing Center’s
(ANCC) Magnet Recognition program. The fa-
cility was also the first behavioral health hos-
pital in the nation to be formally named by
Planetree Inc., an international non-profit pro-
moting the development and implantation of
innovative, patient centered models of care
delivery, as ‘‘Gold Certified for Excellence in
Person-Centered Care.’’
New York-Presbyterian Westchester Divi-
sion has been an invaluable partner in making
the City of White Plains and the surrounding
area a healthier and more prosperous commu-
nity. Madam Speaker, I urge my fellow mem-
bers of Congress to join me in expressing
both congratulations and thanks to the past
and current employees and supporters of New
York-Presbyterian Westchester Division for
their 125 years of distinguished service to our
community.
f
RECOGNIZING GRACE CRUNICAN
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. SWALWELL of California. Madam
Speaker, along with Representatives BARBARA
LEE, ZOE LOFGREN, RO KHANNA, MARK
DESAULNIER, and ANNA ESHOO, I rise to recog-
nize Grace Crunican, who earlier this year re-
tired as the general manager of the San Fran-
cisco Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) system.
Grace began her long career in transpor-
tation management in 1979 when she was ap-
pointed to the Presidential Management Intern
Program at the U.S. Department of Transpor-
tation. She continued to work in a variety of
roles in transportation management before
going to Seattle to direct its Department of
Transportation.
In Seattle she implemented its Transit Mas-
ter Plan, which included Seattle Connections,
the Bike Master Plan, the Freight Mobility
Strategic Plan and the Pedestrian Master
Plan. These initiatives helped to reduce con-
gestion and commute times, helping Seattle
achieve the U.S. Kyoto Protocol goals.
In 2011 she joined BART as general man-
ager. In that role Grace oversaw a staff of
more than 3,000 full time employees operating
a $15 billion transit network. With over three
decades in the public transportation industry,
she displayed the necessary leadership and
focus to provide safe and reliable transpor-
tation services for all Bay Area communities.
Grace’s hard work and dedication will result
in the replacement and expansion of more
than 1,000 new rail cars for BART. Her leader-
ship also encouraged collaboration with
BART’s labor force to ensure both riders and
workers benefit from policy changes.
She developed and implemented policies
that deepen BART’s ties to the communities it
serves by prioritizing inclusive planning that
benefits small business owners, low-income
and homeless riders, and the LGBTQ commu-
nity. Her affordable housing initiative en-
hanced accessibility by requiring the inclusion
of no less than thirty-five percent affordable
housing on all BART transit-oriented develop-
ment projects. Additionally, she coordinated
local and federal resources and fostered re-
gional partnerships to reduce congestion for
eastern Contra Costa County communities
during peak commute times and led the open-
ing of BART’s Oakland International Airport
and Warm Springs/South Fremont stations.
Grace has been a tireless advocate for im-
proved public transit throughout her career.
We want to thank her for her years of service
to the Bay Area and to wish her well in all her
future endeavors.
f
RECOGNIZING SERGEANT JAMES
NICHOLS, RECIPIENT OF TEXAS’
THIRD CONGRESSIONAL DIS-
TRICT 2019 CONGRESSIONAL VET-
ERAN COMMENDATION
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, today, it is
my privilege to honor twelve distinguished mili-
tary veterans from Texas’ Third Congressional
District who answered the call to serve their
Nation honorably, both in uniform and fol-
lowing their return to civilian life. The recipi-
ents of the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation exemplify the time-honored quali-
ties of patriotism, service before self, and bold
leadership. Following their time in service,
their efforts in our community have earned
these fine individuals recognition as the recipi-
ents of this prestigious commendation. Their
stories of sacrifice will encourage future gen-
erations to pursue a life dedicated to the very
values we cherish as Americans: faith, free-
dom, and democracy. One such hero is Ser-
geant James Nichols of Princeton, Texas.
Mr. James ‘‘Nick’’ Nichols enlisted in the
United States Air Force in 1967 as a Materials
Specialist for the Strategic Airlift Command
providing support operations during the Viet-
nam conflict until his discharge in 1971. For
his service, Specialist Nichols was awarded
the Air Force Achievement Medal.
Mr. Nichols has found a multitude of ways
to serve within our community, perhaps most
notably as the Commander of Veterans of For-
eign Wars Post 2150 in McKinney, a leader-
ship role that he has held for nearly a decade.
During his tenue with the VFW, he has led a
number of community service initiatives includ-
ing an outreach program for students centered
on patriotism and a membership outreach pro-
gram that engages community business lead-
ers through the Rotary and Kiwanis Clubs in
McKinney.
As a respected member of our veterans
community, Mr. Nichols sat on the McKinney
Armed Services Memorial Board where his ef-
forts led to the successful completion of the
Veterans Memorial Park in McKinney. In addi-
tion, Mr. Nichols has been an active partici-
pant in the local Marine Toys for Tots Program
where he manages the coordination efforts for
volunteers. Most recently, Mr. Nichols led
fundraising efforts to support the Collin County
Historical Museum’s Centennial Celebration of
America’s entry into World War I, resulting in
an exhibit that would honor the role of our
Collin County soldiers in the Great War.
Air Force Specialist James ‘‘Nick’’ Nichols is
justifiably admired by a multitude of civic lead-
ers for his efforts to support our veterans and
military, ensuring that Collin County remain a
stronghold of support for our defenders of
freedom.
Today, a grateful Nation thanks Specialist
Nichols for his exceptional service and con-
gratulates him on this recognition. May his
steadfast example of leadership inspire others
to live a life of service to a cause greater than
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:23 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28OC8.002 E28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1345
October 28, 2019
themselves. It is my extreme honor to award
him the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation for the Third District of Texas.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ANNA G. ESHOO
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Ms. ESHOO. Madam Speaker, I was unable
to be present during roll call vote number 579,
580, and 581 on October 23, 2019 due to my
attendance at a funeral. I would like the
Record to reflect how I would have voted: On
roll call vote number 579, I would have voted
YES; On roll call vote number 580, I would
have voted YES; On roll call vote number 581,
I would have voted NO.
f
RECOGNIZING PASTOR STACIE
FIDLAR FOR 20 YEARS OF SERV-
ICE AT ST. JOHN’S LUTHERAN
CHURCH IN ROCK ISLAND, ILLI-
NOIS
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Pastor Stacie Fidlar for her 20
years of ministry at St. John’s Lutheran
Church in Rock Island, Illinois. Pastor Fidlar
has demonstrated her commitment to
inclusivity, social justice and environmental re-
sponsibility, as well as her deeply personal in-
vestment in each parishioner as a member of
the church family.
Pastor Stacie Fidlar is a native of Cordova,
Illinois, and a graduate of Riverdale High
School. She earned her B.A. degree, summa
cum laude, from Augustana College, majoring
in religion with a concentration in Asian Stud-
ies. After completing seminary at the Lutheran
School of Theology in Chicago, she was or-
dained in 1995 and served churches in
Forreston and Seneca, Illinois before joining
St. John’s in 1999. She has since devoted her
time to helping and building the community.
She is in charge of the W.O.W. program for
after-school study help and meals, the estab-
lishment of the Free Little Pantry and the des-
ignation of St. John’s as a Reconciling in
Christ congregation. Pastor Fidlar also
oversaw the church’s major building expansion
project and aided a partnership to create the
Micah House, a community of students prac-
ticing intentional living in which faith questions
were explored through conversation and out-
reach projects. In addition, she serves on sev-
eral boards around the community and her
work has led her to be named a Leader Under
40 by the Black Hawk College Foundation,
Professional and Overall Citizen of the Year
by Rock Island, and a Heart of Gold recipient
by the YWCA.
It is because of strong community faith lead-
ers such as Pastor Stacie Fidlar that I am es-
pecially proud to serve Illinois’ 17th Congres-
sional District. Madam Speaker, I would like to
again formally congratulate Pastor Stacie
Fidlar on her 20th Anniversary with St. John’s
Lutheran Church.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I regret-
tably missed a vote on Wednesday, October
23, 2019. I had intended to vote ‘‘yes’’ on vote
584.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF LIONEL ‘‘LEE’’
GODBOUT
HON. WILLIAM R. KEATING
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in celebration of the life of Lionel ‘‘Lee’’
Godbout, an active member of the Weymouth,
Massachusetts community, consummate vol-
unteer in local and state politics, and dedi-
cated friend to all who knew him.
Lee’s passion for service began after high
school, when he joined the Navy. It was there,
while stationed in Newport, Rhode Island, that
Lee met his future wife Kathy. A proud union
carpenter by trade, Lee worked tirelessly to
support Iris family for many years before retir-
ing in 2002. After retirement, Lee continued to
serve his community by volunteering with the
neonatal intensive care unit at St. Margaret’s
Hospital and at Murphy Primary School where
he helped children practice their reading.
Lee would continue to work tirelessly to pro-
mote progressive values for the rest of his life.
Utilizing his carpentry skills, Lee created signs
for numerous campaigns and advocated for
causes close to his heart. His work with
MassEquality helped Massachusetts become
the first state in the nation to see marriage
equality folly implemented.
Those who knew Lee knew him as a good
man, full of kindness and the desire to help
others. His memory and spirit will live on
through his loving wife Kathleen, his three
sons Kevin, Keith, and Wayne, and his
grandsons Ryan and Rylan.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to honor the
life of Lee Godbout. I ask that my colleagues
join me in recognizing his many years of dedi-
cation and service to his community.
f
RECOGNIZING TECHNICAL SER-
GEANT FLETCHER SHARP, RE-
CIPIENT OF TEXAS’ THIRD CON-
GRESSIONAL DISTRICT 2019 CON-
GRESSIONAL VETERAN COM-
MENDATION
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, today, it is
my privilege to honor twelve distinguished mili-
tary veterans from Texas’ Third Congressional
District who answered the call to serve their
Nation honorably, both in uniform and fol-
lowing their return to civilian life. The recipi-
ents of the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation exemplify the time-honored quali-
ties of patriotism, service before self, and bold
leadership. Following their time in service,
their efforts in our community have earned
these fine individuals recognition as the recipi-
ents of this prestigious commendation. Their
stories of sacrifice will encourage future gen-
erations to pursue a life dedicated to the very
values we cherish as Americans: faith, free-
dom, and democracy. One such hero is Tech-
nical Sergeant Fletcher Sharp of Plano,
Texas.
Technical Sergeant Fletcher Sharp joined
the United States Air Force in 1963. Following
technician training school, he worked as an
aircraft crew chief supporting the 436th Military
Airlift Wing at Dover Air Force Base in Dela-
ware and volunteered as a member of the
base honor and color guards. In 1966, he was
transferred to the 51st Fighter Interceptor
Wing at Naha Air Base in Okinawa in support
of the F–102 Delta Dagger and was later de-
ployed on C–130A resupply sorties to bases in
Vietnam and Thailand. For his efforts, he
awarded the Air Force Commendation Medal,
Air Force Achievement Award, Air Force Out-
standing Unit Award, Air Force Good Conduct
Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Air
Force Overseas Service Ribbon, Air Force
Longevity Ribbon, Texas ANG Lone Star Dis-
tinguished Service Medal, and the Small Arms
Expert Marksmanship Ribbon.
Upon his discharge, Mr. Sharp joined the
Pennsylvania Air National Guard as a flight
engineer on C–121 Super Constellation air-
craft performing aero-medical evacuations.
During the next twenty-three years, he would
also serve in the Air National Guards of
Maine, Vermont, and Texas. Most recently, he
was deployed with the Texas Air National
Guard from 1992 to 1995 to support the
United Nations humanitarian missions to Sara-
jevo and throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina.
For over thirty years, Fletcher has been ac-
tive in a variety of service organizations in-
cluding the Veterans of Foreign Wars and
American Legion Post 321 where he has held
leadership positions including Sergeant at
Arms, Judge Advocate, and Vice Commander.
Mr. Sharp has also held the role of Post
Honor Guard Commander, providing military
funeral honors for veterans and participating in
local Veterans Day and Memorial events. Mr.
Sharp has also taken a lead to ensure that an
American flag is placed on every veteran
grave in the Plano Mutual Cemetery every
Memorial Day to pay tribute to those who
served. Further, as an active member of the
Civil Air Patrol, Mr. Sharp has held a variety
of leadership positions including his work with
the cadet program where he assists with de-
veloping leadership skills, character develop-
ment and aerospace education. Finally, as an
active member of the Seidel Chapter of the Air
Force Association, Mr. Sharp acts as a Liaison
Officer between the organization and CAP to
promote the scholarship program for cadets
participating in flight academies.
Mr. Sharp displays the qualities of a true pa-
triot who has selflessly served our nation and
who continues to mentor our next generation
of military leaders.
Today, a grateful Nation thanks Technical
Sergeant Sharp for his exceptional service
and congratulates him on this recognition. May
his steadfast example of leadership inspire
others to live a life of service to a cause great-
er than themselves. It is my extreme honor to
award him the 2019 Congressional Veteran
Commendation for the Third District of Texas.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:23 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K28OC8.003 E28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1346 October 28, 2019
CELEBRATING SPEAK UP, STAND
UP, SAVE A LIFE CONFERENCE
AND MOVEMENT
HON. RAÚL M. GRIJALVA
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize the impact created by the Speak
Up, Stand Up, Save a Life conference and
movement.
In Arizona, much like the rest of the country,
student deaths from suicide have increased
substantially, and research has shown, many
youth related deaths have been found to be
preventable, if only people had the tools to
make a difference. Dr. Lily Matos DeBlieux,
superintendent of the Pendergast District, and
Gina Godbehere, attorney, and Bureau Chief
of the Maricopa County Attorney’s office, met
in Leadership West Class XXII, and worked
collaboratively to create the Speak Up, Stand
Up, Save a Life Conference in 2017, the only
conference of its kind in Arizona.
Now in its fourth year, over 5,000 students,
counselors, law enforcement, parents and
education advocates came together in a Janu-
ary 2019 conference, to eradicate the stigma
and consequences of bullying and to prevent
teen suicide. Due to their efforts to help Ari-
zona be a better place for this and future gen-
erations, police chiefs, and law enforcement
officers from agencies throughout the state
joined the effort and attended the conference,
along with students, counselors, teachers,
education advocates, and caring adults.
The daylong event inspired attendees to
connect and create lasting solutions they can
implement at their schools. The conference of-
fered students an opportunity to hear from
local and national speakers on the difficult
issues they face on a daily basis, both inside
and outside of school. The conference is free
of charge, thanks to sponsors and in-kind do-
nations. What makes this youth conference
unique is the outreach offered to the adults
through the conference, implementation at the
school sites, and follow-up to family resource
nights in the communities.
This vital project is now active in 38 school
districts in Arizona with a total of 158 schools
pa11icipating. The upcoming January 2020
conference will inspire youth and adults to be
empowered, and make a difference in their
schools, districts and communities.
The objective of this vital movement is to
create tools for students in schools with di-
verse populations and community partners to
take back to their campuses and communities
with the goal to prevent suicide by inspiring
over 380,000 students to speak up, stand up,
and save lives.
f
RECOGNIZING AL BURTON
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. SWALWELL of California. Madam
Speaker, joined by Representatives Jackie
Speier and Anna Eshoo, I rise to recognize
legendary television producer Al Burton, who
died last week at his home in the Bay Area at
the age of 91.
Born in 1928 in Columbus, Ohio, Al grad-
uated from Northwestern University in 1948.
Then it was off to California where he made
his mark.
Al initially focused on shows and events tar-
geted at teens, becoming known as the Teen
Dean of Television, with shows like Tele-Teen
Reporter and Spotlight on Youth. He also cre-
ated the Miss Teen-Age America pageant (
which became Miss Teen USA).
During this early period Al worked with a
young Johnny Carson on the game show Do
You Trust Your Wife? (later retitled Who Do
You Trust?) and produced as well as directed
a weekly talk show, The Oscar Levant Show.
In the 1960s, Al put on live and broadcast
musical concerts. This included the first live
television performance of The Beach Boys,
the first appearance in the U.S. of The Rolling
Stones, as well as concerts by The Doors,
Cream, and The Four Seasons.
Then, starting in the early 1970s, Al worked
with Norman Lear to revolutionize and change
the very face of television. He worked on such
iconic shows as All in the Family, The Jeffer-
sons, One Day at a Time, Mary Hartman,
Mary Hartman, Diff’rent Strokes, and The
Facts ofLife.
Al went to work on his own in 1983, con-
tinuing to produce television shows. These
shows included Charles in Charge, The New
Lassie, and Win Ben Stein’s Money.
During Al’s long career his positive attitude
and steadying demeanor helped manage dif-
ficult talent to allow the show to go on. For
many of his television shows he even wrote
and published the theme song as well.
Al’s contribution to American culture is im-
measurable. Millions of Americans, and indeed
people around the world, have him to thank
for helping to expand their horizons and for
countless hours of pure enjoyment.
Our deepest condolences go out to his wife,
Sally Burton, and their daughter, Jennifer Bur-
ton Werbe.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE MCINTIRE-
STENNIS ACT DISTRICT OF CO-
LUMBIA EQUALITY ACT
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I
rise to introduce the McIntire-Stennis Act Dis-
trict of Columbia Equality Act, which would
amend the McIntire-Stennis Cooperative For-
estry Act (Act) to make the District of Colum-
bia eligible for funding. The District is treated
as a state under federal programs, with a few
exceptions, most of them simply oversights or
failures to update. This legislation would rectify
the exception in this Act, ensuring equitable
treatment for the District and allowing the Dis-
trict to benefit from the funding opportunities
available under the Act.
The Act provides U.S. states and territories
with formula funds to support state-designated
institutions’ cooperative forestry research pro-
grams. The Act defines ‘‘State’’ to include
Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and Guam.
The District’s notable, but faulty, absence from
this definition makes it ineligible for grant
funds that would support research at the Dis-
trict’s state-supported university, the University
of the District of Columbia’s (UDC) College of
Agriculture, Urban Stability, and Environmental
Science, a program that complements the
city’s ongoing forestry efforts. UDC is the na-
tion’s only urban land-grant university.
We appreciate that Puerto Rico, the Virgin
Islands and Guam are included under the defi-
nition of ‘‘State,’’ even though, unlike the Dis-
trict of Columbia, their residents do not pay
federal income taxes. It would be particularly
troubling if the District, whose residents pay
the highest amount per capita in federal taxes,
which support farm and other federal pro-
grams, were to continue to be excluded.
It has been argued that the District should
be excluded because of its lack of local timber
production. However, the Act says, ‘‘[i]n mak-
ing such apportionments, consideration shall
be given to pertinent factors including’’ local
timber production. Proximity to timber is,
therefore, only one in a non-exclusive list of
factors that are part of the larger analysis re-
garding the apportionments. Excluding the
District from the definition of ‘‘State’’ merely
because it is not located in an area with a tim-
ber industry runs counter to the intent of the
Act. While timber production can be a factor in
determining the amount of state allocations,
there is no reason that the District should be
excluded from the Act.
We believe, therefore, that the omission of
the District must have been the result of an
oversight during the original drafting of the
Act. However, as you can imagine, this omis-
sion has serious consequences for the District,
rendering UDC ineligible for these formula
grant funds. Passage of this bill would allow
students and researchers in the nation’s cap-
ital to take part in this important forestry pro-
gram.
I urge my colleagues to support this impor-
tant bill.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BRYAN STEIL
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, I was unable
to vote because I was in my district to partici-
pate in an official event with the Vice Presi-
dent.
Had I been present, I would have voted:
NAY on Roll Call No. 579; NAY on Roll Call
No. 580; YEA on Roll Call No. 581; YEA on
Roll Call No. 582; NAY on Roll Call No. 583;
and YEA on Roll Call No. 584.
f
RECOGNIZING STAFF SERGEANT
JIM SKINNER, RECIPIENT OF
TEXAS’ THIRD CONGRESSIONAL
DISTRICT 2019 CONGRESSIONAL
VETERAN COMMENDATION
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, today, it is
my privilege to honor twelve distinguished mili-
tary veterans from Texas’ Third Congressional
District who answered the call to serve their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:23 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28OC8.009 E28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1347
October 28, 2019
Nation honorably, both in uniform and fol-
lowing their return to civilian life. The recipi-
ents of the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation exemplify the time-honored quali-
ties of patriotism, service before self, and bold
leadership. Following their time in service,
their efforts in our community have earned
these fine individuals recognition as the recipi-
ents of this prestigious commendation. Their
stories of sacrifice will encourage future gen-
erations to pursue a life dedicated to the very
values we cherish as Americans: faith, free-
dom, and democracy. One such hero is Staff
Sergeant Jim Skinner of Melissa, Texas.
Staff Sergeant Jim Skinner’s history of serv-
ice began in 1979 when he entered into the
United States Air Force, quickly earning the
title of Security Police Military Working Dog
Handler after completing the rigorous patrol
and drug dog handler training. He would
spend the next seven years in the role of dog
handler, investigator, and SWAT team oper-
ator in Southeast Asia, the Middle East and
New Mexico. For his dedicated efforts in de-
fense of our nation, Staff Sergeant Jim Skin-
ner would receive the Air Force Commenda-
tion Medal, Air Force Achievement Medal, Air
Force Good Conduct Medal, and Outstanding
Small Unit Award.
While Skinner would leave the military in
1987, his desire to protect the innocent would
continue, leading him to pursue a Juris Doc-
torate from the University of Houston Law
Center in 2001. Upon graduation he would
work as a civil rights lawyer, representing child
victims of sexual abuse. In 2007, he was ap-
pointed as an Assistant District Attorney and
Special Prosecutor of the Collin County Crimi-
nal District Attorney’s Office and later served
as the Second Assistant District Attorney and
Chief of the Special Prosecutions Division.
Jim further developed his passion for serv-
ing the public when he was elected as the
39th Sheriff of Collin County in January 2017.
His drive to protect the most innocent led to
the creation of the Child Exploitation Unit. Ad-
ditionally, Sheriff Skinner was responsible for
bringing together the Sheriffs of seven coun-
ties to form the North Texas Sheriff’s Office
Criminal Interdiction Unit, which targets crimi-
nals who are illegally transporting narcotics,
weapons, cash or persons involved in human
trafficking on our highways.
Sheriff Skinner has found countless ways to
serve our community including his role as a
board member for the Child Advocacy Center
of Collin County, as a Trustee for Collin Coun-
ty Meals on Wheels, as a former board mem-
ber for the North Texas Crime Commission,
and as the Judge Advocate for the Bill Bryant
Post 110 of the American Legion. Jim Skinner
is a devoted public servant who has spent his
entire life giving back to the community and
working towards ensuring the values that we
hold dear as Americans are maintained and
he is to be commended for work to improve
our nation.
Today, a grateful Nation thanks Staff Ser-
geant Skinner for his exceptional service and
congratulates him on this recognition. May his
steadfast example of leadership inspire others
to live a life of service to a cause greater than
themselves. It is my extreme honor to award
him the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation for the Third District of Texas.
RECOGNIZING THE HONOR FLIGHT
OF THE QUAD CITIES FOR ITS
50TH FLIGHT
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Honor Flight of the Quad Cities
for its 50th flight.
The Quad Cities formed a local chapter of
the Honor Flight Network, called Honor Flight
of the Quad Cities (HFQC) in 2008. The mis-
sion of HFQC is to fly America’s veterans to
Washington, D.C. in order to honor their sac-
rifices by allowing them visit memorials dedi-
cated to their service. I especially extend my
gratitude to Robert ‘‘Bob’’ Morrison, the found-
er of Honor Flight of the Quad Cities, for his
dedication to serving local veterans and ensur-
ing they can travel to visit the memorials. Mr.
Morrison passed away October 7, 2019. He
was the first Hub Director and took more than
3,000 veterans on 33 flights to see the memo-
rials in our nation’s capital. His memory and
impact on our community will be well regarded
for generations to come. Thank you again to
this organization for its commitment to our vet-
erans over the course of the 50 flights they
have organized.
It is because of organizations such as the
Honor Flight of the Quad Cities that I am es-
pecially proud to serve Illinois’ 17th Congres-
sional District. Madam Speaker, I would like to
again formally congratulate the Honor Flight of
the Quad Cities on its 50th flight.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. RON ESTES
OF KANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. ESTES. Madam Speaker, I was not
present for Roll Call vote No. 581 on the
Lesko Amendment No. 2 to H.R. 4617. Had I
been present, I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’
Madam Speaker, I was not present for Roll
Call vote No. 582 on the Republican Motion to
Recommit H.R. 4617 with Instructions. Had I
been present, I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’
Madam Speaker, I was not present for Roll
Call vote No. 583 on the Final Passage of
H.R. 4617, as amended. Had I been present,
I would have voted ‘‘no.‘‘
Madam Speaker, I was not present for Roll
Call vote No. 584 on the Motion to Suspend
the Rules and Pass H.R. 777. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
f
HONORING THE GALWAY PUBLIC
LIBRARY ON THE OPENING OF
ITS NEW FACILITY
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor The Galway Public Library on
the opening of its new facility.
Over the past decade, the entire community
of Galway has been contributing to the effort
to construct the new library. This new facility
is more than three times the size of the old
one, which was founded in 1997, and will act
as a holistic community center. It will offer
venue space and technology resources for all
the residents of Galway to use and benefit
from in addition to the collection of books and
other media. The library has been supported
not only by tax dollars but also by private do-
nations, grants and bonds approved by the
voters. Further, the move from the old library
was supported by over one hundred volun-
teers who worked hundreds of hours ensure
that the transition was successful. This level of
civic involvement highlights everything that
makes the North Country so vibrant and
makes me proud to be its representative in
Congress.
On Behalf on New York’s 21st Congres-
sional District, I want to congratulate the resi-
dents of the Town of Galway on this amazing
accomplishment. I look forward to the success
of the new Galway Public Library as a center-
piece of the community long into the future.
f
CONGRATULATING THE MATER
DEI GOLF TEAM
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the achievements of the Mater
Dei Knights golf team, which recently brought
home the Illinois Class 1A State Golf Cham-
pionship.
It was a very tense tournament. At the end
of the first round the Knights found themselves
tied for first with the Althoff Crusaders. How-
ever, with a great deal of grit and determina-
tion the Knights eventually pulled out a hard-
fought one stroke victory over rival Althoff to
claim the state title.
My hearty congratulations go to team mem-
bers Grant Goebel, Carter Goebel, Nathan Ri-
vera, Blake Kloeckner, Ian Benderson, Tanner
Gerdes, head coach Dennis Trame, athletic di-
rector Ron Schadegg, and school principal
Dennis Litteken.
Madam Speaker, these student-athletes and
their coaches have represented themselves,
their school, and their community in the best
tradition of high school athletics. I am pleased
to join with the other Members of this House
in congratulating them on their victory and
wishing them all the best in their future aca-
demic and athletic careers.
f
RECOGNIZING SENIOR MASTER
SERGEANT BARNETT WALKER,
RECIPIENT OF TEXAS’ THIRD
CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT 2019
CONGRESSIONAL VETERAN COM-
MENDATION
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, today, it is
my privilege to honor twelve distinguished mili-
tary veterans from Texas’ Third Congressional
District who answered the call to serve their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:23 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K28OC8.005 E28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1348 October 28, 2019
Nation honorably, both in uniform and fol-
lowing their return to civilian life. The recipi-
ents of the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation exemplify the time-honored quali-
ties of patriotism, service before self, and bold
leadership. Following their time in service,
their efforts in our community have earned
these fine individuals recognition as the recipi-
ents of this prestigious commendation. Their
stories of sacrifice will encourage future gen-
erations to pursue a life dedicated to the very
values we cherish as Americans: faith, free-
dom, and democracy. One such hero is Senior
Master Sergeant Barnett Walker of Prosper,
Texas.
For twenty-two years, retired Master Ser-
geant Barnett Walker proudly served our na-
tion with distinction in the United States Air
Force. During his military career, Walker was
awarded 25 different military decorations, most
notably three Meritorious Service Medals, four
Joint Service Commendation Medals, the Air
Force Commendation Medal, Joint Service
Achievement Medal, Air Force Achievement
Medal, and the Air Force Recognition Ribbon
following his selection as Senior Non-Commis-
sioned Officer of the Year at every level in-
cluding the United States Air Force Head-
quarters.
Throughout his career, Walker volunteered
for the most hazardous military operations in
Desert Shield and Desert Storm. He was sta-
tioned at United States Central Command
under General H. Norman Schwarzkopf and
was part of the first wave of U.S. military
forces that arrived in Saudi Arabia in August
1990. Then-Technical Sergeant Walker was in
charge of the Joint Communication Center that
processed real-time classified communications
and intelligence to the President of the United
States, the Joint Commanders-in-Chiefs, and
other U.S.-led coalition countries. From 1993–
1994, Master Sergeant Walker volunteered for
assignment in support of Operation Provide
Comfort, where he served as First Sergeant
and Non-Commissioned Officer In-Charge of
the Communications and Intelligence facility
which provided classified cryptographic mate-
rial to our armed forces. From 1995 to 1996,
Walker volunteered to implement and monitor
military aspects of the Dayton Peace Agree-
ment throughout war-torn Bosnia and
Herzegovina while searching for war criminals.
For his contributions to our nation, Master Ser-
geant Walker was often recognized by military
leadership.
Following his retirement from the Air Force,
Walker earned his Juris Doctorate from South-
ern Methodist University and was later ap-
pointed as a Judge for Collin County Court at
Law 2. Judge Walker would be awarded the
Military Outstanding Volunteer Service Medal,
reserved for those who have demonstrated the
highest commitment of time and effort for
community and charitable organizations.
Today, Judge Walker selflessly devotes his
time to organizations including the Collin
County Veteran’s Court, the DWI Drug Court,
Collin County Bar Association Mentorship Pro-
gram, Girl Scouts, Special Olympics, the Sa-
maritan Inn, and Feed the Homeless where he
helps prepare and deliver meals to those in
need. Judge Walker is the epitome of a leader
who has served America through both his mili-
tary and civil servant roles and we are hon-
ored to recognize him for his countless efforts.
Today, a grateful Nation thanks Senior Mas-
ter Sergeant Walker for his exceptional service
and congratulates him on this recognition. May
his steadfast example of leadership inspire
others to live a life of service to a cause great-
er than themselves. It is my extreme honor to
award him the 2019 Congressional Veteran
Commendation for the Third District of Texas.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
I was absent for votes on H.R. 4617, the
SHIELD Act, and H.R. 777, reauthorizing the
Debbie Smith Act, due to a family emergency.
Had I been present, I would have voted YEA
on Roll Call No. 581; YEA on Roll Call No.
582; NAY on Roll Call No. 583; and YEA on
Roll Call No. 584.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. SWALWELL of California. Madam
Speaker, due to a family obligation I missed
one vote on October 22. Had I been present
I would have voted as follows:
Roll Call Vote Number 576 (Motion to Re-
commit H.R. 2513): NO.
f
RECOGNIZING THE BUCKS COUNTY
BRANCH OF THE NAACP FOR
THEIR 68TH ANNUAL FREEDOM
FUND BANQUET
HON. BRIAN K. FITZPATRICK
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker, I want
to take this opportunity to recognize the Bucks
County Branch of the NAACP on their 68th
Freedom Fund Banquet. It is an honor to rec-
ognize an organization that has always been
at the forefront in the fight for civil rights. I par-
ticularly want to applaud the tremendous im-
pact the NAACP has had locally and across
this great nation in fighting to make our com-
munities better. The theme for this year’s ban-
quet, ‘‘When We Fight, We Win!’’ invokes this
constant fight for progress and inspires each
of us to work harder for justice.
Our congressional district, the place we call
home, is another place where progress can
continue. It begins with each of us in the com-
munity. The NAACP is an integral part of that.
While our nation has made tremendous strides
with respect to civil rights, there is still much
to be done. We can do better, we must do
better. The NAACP in Bucks County is work-
ing each and every day to bring people to-
gether to stand up for justice. When hateful
language was found at the Carl Sandburg
Middle School, the NAACP was instrumental
in uniting our community against the hateful
rhetoric by helping to organize a candlelight
vigil. The work of our local NAACP is indis-
pensable for our community and our country,
and we must continue to support its efforts.
Our community, our nation, is stronger when
we stand together. Change begins with each
one of us here at home. Whether we are
elected officials, moms or dads or neighbors
or community leaders or students or anyone—
we must remember that there is more that
unites us than divides us. As a Bucks County
resident, I want to thank our local NAACP for
all that they do to make Bucks County a better
place. I look forward to continuing working to-
gether with the NAACP to make our district
safer and prosperous for all.
f
HONORING PERSHING EDWIN (P.E.)
MACALLISTER
HON. SUSAN W. BROOKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor of the life of a beloved
and iconic member of the Hoosier state, Per-
shing Edwin (P.E.) MacAllister. A pillar of the
Indianapolis community, P.E. passed away at
the age of 101 on October 23, 2019. P.E. was
an industrious, enthusiastic and generous indi-
vidual whose life’s work touched and bene-
fitted so many Hoosiers. A longtime leader in
Indiana politics, P.E. was a guiding force in
not only my career but also the political ca-
reers of legendary Republican Hoosier law-
makers, the late Senator Richard Lugar and
the late Indianapolis Mayor William Hudnut,
among others. In 1945, P.E. co-founded the
MacAllister Machinery Company with his fa-
ther. His 74 years at the helm of the company
are a telling reminder of his unequaled busi-
ness acumen and leadership capabilities.
Throughout his life he helped lead and de-
velop both the public and private sector suc-
cesses of Indianapolis and the state of Indi-
ana. The people of Indiana’s Fifth Congres-
sional District are forever grateful for P .E.’s
contributions to our Hoosier community, and it
is my privilege to honor him today.
P.E. was born August 30, 1918, in Oconto,
Wisconsin to Edwin W. (E.W.) and Hilda
MacAllister. As a recent veteran of World War
I, Edwin named his son Pershing after Gen-
eral John Joseph ‘‘Black Jack’’ Pershing.
Growing up during the Great Depression, P.E.
was taught the frugality and self-sufficient na-
ture required to survive and flourish in the
America of the time. With a strong Scottish
Presbyterian upbringing and close familial
bond, P.E. advanced in his academic career,
graduating high school and then enrolling at
Carroll College. After graduation from Carroll
College in 1940, P.E. joined the United States
Army Air Force. On October 25, 1941, he was
shipped off to basic training, and his service to
his country began. As an armament officer,
P.E. was stationed initially in the United
States, but also served in England, North Afri-
ca, and finally in Italy where he earned the
rank of Captain. After 5 years in the Army Air
Force, P.E. finished his service having earned
four Overseas Service Bars and a Presidential
Unit Citation.
Upon returning from service overseas, P.E.
and his father E.W. co-founded the MacAllister
Machinery Company in June of 1945. After his
father’s medical complications in 1951, P.E.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 16:34 Jan 08, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\RECORD19\OCTOBER\E28OC9.REC E28OC9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1349
October 28, 2019
and his brother Dave took the helm of the
company. Over the next 74 years, P.E. led the
company as it grew to cover two states with
over 2,500 employees. Starting in 1986, he
began to co-publish and write the lead articles
for 170 issues of the company’s newsletter,
‘‘Mac Today’’. Outside of the office, P.E. main-
tained strong ties with his faith as a devoted
member of Northminster Presbyterian Church.
As a leader in the church’s governing body,
P.E. served two terms as its moderator. In
1972, he was the moderator of the Synod of
Indiana, and in 1975 he was named the mod-
erator of the Synod of Lincoln Trials. P.E. also
served on the board of trustees at the Chris-
tian Theological Seminary, where along with
friend Dick Petticrew, he created ‘‘The
MacAllister-Petticrew Chair’’ of the Old Testa-
ment Studies. At his alma mater of Carroll
College, P.E. endowed a ‘‘Chair in Old Testa-
ment Studies’’.
Later in his career, P.E. began his entrance
into the Indiana political arena. Along with
close friends Harold Ransburg, John Burkhart
and Keith Bulen, P.E. helped to bring about a
political revolution within Indiana. He helped to
foster the early careers of many Republican
candidates such as former Mayor William
Hudnut, former Governor Mitch Daniels,
former Senator Richard Lugar, and former
Governor and Vice-President MICHAEL PENCE.
P.E. was also an integral part of the creation
of the Indianapolis Parks Foundation and
served as the chairman of the Foundation for
many years, helping to transform many of the
city’s various parks and public lands. His time
as a member and then chairman of the Capital
Improvements Board helped to see the city
commit to the building of the RCA Dome and
Convention Center which were important steps
to eventually enticing the Colts of the National
Football League to relocate to Indianapolis.
These partnerships helped change Indianap-
olis from a sleepy stop on the highways of
middle America to a premiere emerging city in
the heartland of America.
P.E. leaves behind a larger than life legacy
that is fitting for the impact he had on the city
of Indianapolis and the state of Indiana. Dur-
ing his life, he was one of the most impactful
local leaders in the city’s public and private
sectors, leaving a legacy unmatched by his
peers. He dedicated his life to the service of
his clients, employees, and fellow Hoosiers,
fundamentally changing the lives of those he
served for the better. His unparalleled love for
Indiana and the city of Indianapolis led to
massive changes that impacted not only the
lives of Hoosiers, but also the skyline of Indi-
anapolis. P.E. will be remembered for his
amazing compassion, charismatic and warm
personality, as well civic involvement. Award-
ed the Sagamore of the Wabash, Indiana’s
highest public honor, by three separate Gov-
ernors is a testament the influence P.E. had
on our state. I feel fortunate to have known
him, and I know that his legacy lives on
through the great contributions he made to In-
dianapolis, to Indiana, and to the country. On
behalf of Indiana’s Fifth District, I offer my
condolences to the entire MacAllister family
and all who mourn his loss and cherish his
memory.
RECOGNIZING HOSPITAL CORPS-
MAN KENNETH YELLE, RECIPI-
ENT OF TEXAS’ THIRD CONGRES-
SIONAL DISTRICT 2019 CONGRES-
SIONAL VETERAN COMMENDA-
TION
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, today, it is
my privilege to honor twelve distinguished mili-
tary veterans from Texas’ Third Congressional
District who answered the call to serve their
Nation honorably, both in uniform and fol-
lowing their return to civilian life. The recipi-
ents of the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation exemplify the time-honored quali-
ties of patriotism, service before self, and bold
leadership. Following their time in service,
their efforts in our community have earned
these fine individuals recognition as the recipi-
ents of this prestigious commendation. Their
stories of sacrifice will encourage future gen-
erations to pursue a life dedicated to the very
values we cherish as Americans: faith, free-
dom, and democracy. One such hero is Hos-
pital Corpsman Kenneth Yelle of McKinney,
Texas.
Kenneth Louis Yelle began his service to
our nation in 1945 during World War II as an
integral member of the United States Navy in
Washington, D.C. During the Korean War, he
served with the 1st Marine Division as a Hos-
pital Corpsman. For his efforts he would be
awarded with the WWII Victory Medal, Amer-
ican Area Campaign Medal, Korean Service
Medal, United Nations Medal, and the Presi-
dential Unit Citation.
In the years following his military service,
Mr. Yelle has found multiple ways to serve his
community including his active membership in
the Veterans of Foreign Wars Lone Star Post
No. 2150 in McKinney. At the age of 92 years
old, he still provides transportation to the Vet-
erans Administration health facilities in
Bonham and Dallas for friends and neighbors.
At the community where he has resided for
many years, he has been an exercise leader
and a model of physical fitness for his fellow
residents. Mr. Yelle is continuously called
upon to assist others with various projects and
transportation to appointments. It is because
of his continuous fellowship and encourage-
ment to those in need that he was nominated
for the Congressional Veteran Commendation.
Mr. Yelle is a compassionate and generous
patriot who has served our nation both in and
out of uniform and who consistently lends a
hand to those in need.
Today, a grateful Nation thanks Hospital
Corpsman Yelle for his exceptional service
and congratulates him on this recognition. May
his steadfast example of leadership inspire
others to live a life of service to a cause great-
er than themselves. It is my extreme honor to
award him the 2019 Congressional Veteran
Commendation for the Third District of Texas.
HONORING THE 36TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE 241 MARINES LOST
IN BEIRUT, LEBANON
SPEECH OF
HON. GREGORY F. MURPHY
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise to pay tribute to the 241 American
service members who died in Beirut, Lebanon
36 years ago.
The vast majority of the Marines and sailors
who tragically lost their lives in the attack were
from the 1st Battalion 8th Marines stationed at
Camp Lejeune, which I have the honor of rep-
resenting in the Third District of North Caro-
lina.
In addition, we keep the families who lost
their loved ones in our thoughts and prayers.
Their immense sacrifices should never be
overlooked.
In remembering this anniversary today, we
reaffirm out commitment to not only never for-
get these heroes, but also to ensure that they
did not die in vain.
The United States of America will never
cower to evil and abandon our values. We will
always stand against enemies of liberty and
justice.
Thank you to the members of our armed
services, especially to the men and women
who serve at Camp Lejeune and Marine
Corps Air Stations Cherry Point and New
River, who help guarantee we do just that.
f
RECOGNIZING AMERICAN LEGION
POST 946
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, it is with great pride that I recognize Amer-
ican Legion Post 946, located in Ursina Bor-
ough in Somerset County, Pennsylvania.
Founded in 1919, the American Legion is
one of nation’s oldest veterans service organi-
zation. For a century, the American Legion
has served American communities with serv-
ices ranging from offering youth mentoring and
educational programs to promoting patriotism
and our national security.
Most importantly, the American Legion
serves as a resource for veterans, oftentimes
helping veterans and service members in
need of support and assistance.
It is a privilege to represent American Le-
gion Post 946 in the House of Representa-
tives, and I thank its members for their work
to serve the Ursina Borough community and
Americans around the country.
f
CONDEMNING VLADIMIR PUTIN’S
HUMAN RIGHT ABUSES
HON. GEORGE HOLDING
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. HOLDING. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to draw attention to the plight of political pris-
oners in the Russian Federation, and to com-
memorate an important anniversary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:23 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28OC8.020 E28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1350 October 28, 2019
Sixteen years ago last week, on October 25,
2003, Mikhail Khodorkovsky was arrested at
gunpoint by special forces of the Kremlin. At
the time, Mr. Khodorkovsky was head of a
successful Russian company, Yukos, which
had adopted Western standards of govern-
ance. His crime was to have called publicly on
the Russian President, Vladimir Putin, to ad-
dress the problem of state corruption—and to
have suggested that such corruption had
reached the very highest levels of govern-
ment. Mr. Khodorkovsky would spend a dec-
ade in a Siberian labor camp.
Today, Russia is holding more than 230 po-
litical prisoners behind bars. Various reports
leave no doubt as to the gravity and urgency
of the problem and make clear that the situa-
tion is only becoming worse. The Kremlin is
engaging in a crackdown on political oppo-
nents in order to suppress critical voices they
see as a threat.
Russia’s longest held political prisoner is
Alexey Pichugin. He is still in jail after more
than 16 years because he refuses to sign
false testimony against his former colleague,
Mikhail Khodorkovsky. It would be difficult to
imagine a more egregious violation of the rule
of law and human decency.
I urge Congress to use the numerous polit-
ical and economic tools at its disposal—start-
ing with the Sergei Magnitsky Rule of Law Ac-
countability Act, which the House of Rep-
resentatives adopted in 2012—to bring greater
pressure on the lawless regime of Vladimir
Putin. We owe it to the courageous Russian
men and women fighting for their God-given
human rights and freedoms.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 125TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE EBELL SOCIETY
OF SANTA ANA VALLEY
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to celebrate the 125th anniversary of the Ebell
Society of Santa Ana Valley, which was com-
memorated on October 19, 2019, at the orga-
nization’s historic club house.
The Ebell Society of Santa Ana was found-
ed in 1894 to provide social, cultural, and edu-
cational opportunities for members.
With its motto ‘‘That is Only True Living
which is Ever Learning,’’ the Ebell Society in-
cludes 10 educational and cultural sections,
including antiques, bridge, genealogy, quilting,
home and garden, literature and the arts.
The Society’s founding president, Mrs.
Franklina Bartlett, was an outstanding citizen
and a prolific writer whose short stories ap-
peared in publications alongside well-known
authors such as Willa Cather, Jack London,
and Mark Twain.
In the early 1900s, featured Ebell Club
speakers included Helen Keller, Will Rogers,
Jack London’s daughter Joan London, and
Chief Standing Bear of the Sioux Indian Tribe,
who was recently honored with a statue here
in the Capitol. These renowned individuals
helped raise money to build the Ebell Club-
house, which was designed in 1924 by
Fredrick Eley, one of Orange County’s best-
known architects.
The 95-year-old Mediterranean-style build-
ing, which is included on the National Register
of Historic Places, underwent restoration in
2018. Thanks to the caretaking of the Soci-
ety’s members, the Ebell Clubhouse continues
to be a hub for community gatherings.
Throughout the years, Ebell has made phi-
lanthropy and community service an important
part of its mission. Ebell members ran a nurs-
ery for working women’s children for almost 35
years, made bandages and sold Liberty Bonds
during World War I, and held blood drives dur-
ing World War II.
Today’s members provide philanthropic sup-
port to WISEPlace Women’s Shelter in Santa
Ana and the Friendly Center of Orange Coun-
ty.
In addition, the Ebell Society Color Guard
proudly participates in patriotic observances in
the community throughout the year.
The club’s current president is Dr. Betts
Rivét, an author who retired from the Santa
Ana school system and then taught English at
a women’s college in China for 19 years.
Madam Speaker, it is my honor to recognize
the 125th anniversary of the Ebell Society of
Santa Ana Valley. Congratulations to this
group of outstanding Orange County citizens
who continue building our community through
the pursuit of education and philanthropy.
f
RECOGNIZING ZIGGY AND STELLA
ZIEGLER OF BILLINGS
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Ziggy and Stella Ziegler of Bil-
lings for their decades of selflessly helping
people find a second chance in life.
For more than 40 years, Ziggy and Stella
owned and operated Stella’s Kitchen and Bak-
ery in Billings. Their establishment created a
downtown buzz where every weekend you can
find a line out the door of people waiting to eat
a delicious breakfast. Their restaurant won a
2018 Billings Gazette Readers’ Choice for
Best Breakfast and Best Bakery.
Recently retired, Ziggy and Stella were hon-
ored with this year’s Billings Chamber Legacy
Award for their dedication to the city. While
their business success is well documented, it’s
the Zieglers’ work in their community that sets
them apart.
In 1973, when Ziggy was young, his father
was murdered. Instead of reacting in anger,
Ziggy used that tragedy to fuel his passion for
serving others. He dedicated his life to helping
prisoners find fruitful, meaningful lives during
and after incarceration.
For the last 40 years, Ziggy has traveled to
prisons and halfway houses throughout Mon-
tana. In those cell blocks and rehabilitation
rooms, Ziggy offers spiritual guidance, be it a
passage of scripture or a prayer. He also
helps those incarcerated or formerly incarcer-
ated develop their self-esteem, encouraging
them realize their worth. Ziggy has helped
hundreds of men and women find a plan for
life after incarceration.
That’s where Stella stepped in to complete
the ministry. Stella oversaw the day-to-day op-
erations of the Ziegler’s bakery, including hir-
ing workers. Collaborating with the prison min-
istry, Stella filled many of open jobs with
former inmates. The employment provided
those reentering society with structure and a
community.
Stella’s reach goes beyond her bakery. She
was instrumental in building the new St.
Francis Catholic Elementary School and re-
modeling St. Patrick’s Co-Cathedral in Billings.
Even after retiring, Stella continues to help her
community as she serves on boards and lead-
ership committees.
Madam Speaker, for their business suc-
cesses and ministerial impact to help build a
better path for those reentering society, I rec-
ognize Ziggy and Stella Ziegler of Billings for
their Spirit of Montana.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE CANTERBURY
SHAKER VILLAGE AND HON-
ORING THE GENEROSITY OF THE
MAXINE AND RICHARD MORSE
ENDOWMENT FUND
HON. CHRIS PAPPAS
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. PAPPAS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the 50th Anniversary of the Can-
terbury Shaker Village and honor the gen-
erosity of the Maxine and Richard Morse En-
dowment Fund for their commitment to both
the Shaker Village and for the arts across
New Hampshire.
The Maxine and Richard Morse Endowment
Fund has supported many philanthropic
causes across New Hampshire for more than
60 years. Among their most notable efforts
was to help support the establishment of the
Canterbury Shaker Village. In 1969, the
Morses worked with a group of Shaker sisters
to provide funds and devise a plan to allow
the sisters to remain in their home while also
preserving the Shaker history, legacy, and life-
style for generations to come. From then on,
Canterbury Shaker Village Inc. was formed to
hold the property, thus enabling the continued
celebration and teaching of Shaker legacy,
philosophy, and teachings for years to come.
To this day, my dear friend, Maxine has
spearheaded efforts to protect and preserve
the Village as both a Corporator and Trustee.
Today, the Canterbury Shaker Village, in addi-
tion to be listed as a National Historic Land-
mark for its architecture, serves as a critical
site for teaching people of all generations
about the lives and legacy of the Canterbury
Shakers.
On behalf of our constituents across New
Hampshire’s First Congressional District, I
congratulate the Canterbury Shaker Village at
the Currier Museum on its 50th anniversary. I
thank everyone, especially Maxine and the
late Dick Morse, who have been instrumental
in its formation and continued flourishing.
f
RECOGNIZING THE ONE-YEAR AN-
NIVERSARY OF THE SUPPORT
ACT
HON. ADAM KINZINGER
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. KINZINGER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the one-year anniversary of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:23 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28OC8.023 E28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1351
October 28, 2019
the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities
Act being signed into law. The SUPPORT Act
was the most comprehensive law ever en-
acted by Congress to take on a drug crisis—
a bold response to an opioid epidemic that
has affected every corner of our country.
The SUPPORT Act took big strides in ad-
dressing the crisis by expanding access to
treatment and recovery services, providing
communities with the tools and resources they
need to be successful on the front lines, en-
suring we have effective systems in place to
keep these powerful drugs from getting into
the wrong hands, and more.
I was proud to have my legislation, the
Opioid Addiction Action Plan Act, included in
the final package. My bill requires a com-
prehensive look at government practices—in-
cluding reimbursement, coverage, and data
collection—and allows us to find alternate
methods of treating pain through innovation by
making Medicare and Medicaid more flexible,
adaptable, and focused on preventing and
treating addiction.
The SUPPORT Act recognized that while
this crisis has reached every zip code, a one-
size-fits-all approach won’t remedy the issue
effectively, and that’s where the role of com-
munity comes into play. I believe community is
at the heart of many issues facing our nation
right now and is a key component for those
struggling with opioid addiction.
Having a support network and a sense of
belonging is important to all of us, so it is im-
perative that on a community level we guide
those who are fighting addiction, whether that
be a family member, neighbor, or a compas-
sionate stranger. The SUPPORT Act helps
communities do just that, by propping up com-
munity organizations with technical or financial
assistance, establishing peer support net-
works, and distributing best practices for those
on the front lines within the community, like
health professionals or law enforcement.
As a society, we must do better to ensure
those who are struggling know that they are
not alone, and that they have a team of sup-
port around them. The stigma surrounding
substance use disorders is real and detri-
mental to those who need help or are trying to
rebuild their lives. The language we use to talk
about them is incredibly important to breaking
the stigma. We wouldn’t define a person with
cancer or Parkinson’s by their disease and ad-
diction is no different.
The SUPPORT Act was a giant leap in the
right direction, and while we are already see-
ing real results, we must continue to work to-
gether, from Congress down to the community
leaders, to help those who are struggling and
end this devastating crisis for good.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF MAJOR
GENERAL RONALD HRANT
MARKARIAN
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor and pay tribute to the life of Major Gen-
eral Ronald Hrant Markarian, who passed
away on October 12, 2019. Major General
Markarian valiantly served our country for 46
years in the California Army National Guard
and the Air Force.
Major General Markarian was born in Fres-
no, California on June 27, 1931 to Theodore
and Rose Markarian. He graduated from Clo-
vis High School and was a member of the
California Cadet Core. While in high school,
Major General Markarian joined the California
National Guard. He was in the Heavy Mortar
Company of the 185th Infantry Regiment for
three years. He then attended California State
University, Fresno. During that time, he en-
rolled in the Air Force Reserve Officer Training
Corps. After graduation, Major General
Markarian joined the United States Air Force.
His assignments included duties such as B–47
and B–52 strategic bombers. In 1964 he com-
pleted his master’s degree in public adminis-
tration from George Washington University in
Washington, D.C.
Major General Markarian was also Chief of
Air Reconnaissance Operations in Southeast
Asia. He flew 116 Reconnaissance missions
during that time. One of his duty stations was
in Hawaii and he served as the Pacific Air
Forces Director of Plans and Programs. He
was Commander of the 548th Reconnais-
sance Technical Group. Major General
Markarian also worked for six years at the
Pentagon and was the Chief of Air Reconnais-
sance Systems and Director of the United
States Air Force Intelligence Reserve Forces.
After 30 years of military service, Major
General Markarian retired in August 1980 as a
Full Bird Colonel in the Air Force. His need to
serve did not end at his retirement. In 1987,
Major General Markarian was nominated by
California Governor George Deukmejian to be
appointed by President Ronald Reagan as
California State Director for the Selective
Service System. Later, Pete Wilson, Governor
of California then appointed him to be the
California Commission for the Commemoration
of the Second World War. He was appointed
Commanding General of the California State
Reserve and later promoted to Major General
in 1990. In 1994, he was appointed to the
California Veterans Board. Major General
Markarian retired with 46 years of uniformed
military service in October of 1995 after he be-
came a member of the California State Military
Reserve.
Major General Markarian’s commitment to
public service and our country is truly remark-
able and he was a key leader in the commu-
nity in many capacities even after his military
years. He was a founding member of the Cen-
tral California Veterans Home Support Foun-
dation (CCVHSF) and assisted in acquiring
the land for the California Veterans Home in
Fresno where he lived during the later years
of his life. Major General Markarian was the
president of Central California Chapter of the
Association of the United States Army, Amer-
ican Red Cross and the Military Intelligence
Corps Association.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the life of Major General Ron-
ald Hrant Markarian. His service to our nation
and contributions to veterans in the Central
Valley will not be forgotten.
CONGRATULATING CONGRESSMAN
STEVE CHABOT
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, it is my honor to congratulate Congress-
man STEVE CHABOT on the birth of his grand-
daughter, Keira Noelle Bischof, on October 21,
2019.
As a proud grandfather, I understand first-
hand how exciting this joyous occasion is for
Congressman CHABOT and his wife, Donna.
Kiera will be welcomed home by her big broth-
er, Reed.
My wife Alice and I extend our best wishes
to the Chabot family as they celebrate their
new addition. We wish them continued health
and happiness.
f
RECOGNIZING MELISSA ‘‘MISTY’’
GRANDEL, 2020 MISSOURI TEACH-
ER OF THE YEAR
HON. BILLY LONG
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. LONG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Melissa ‘‘Misty’’ Grandel for being
named the 2020 Missouri Teacher of the Year.
If there is one thing people know about
Misty, it’s that she is a Missourian through and
through. Generations of her family, including
Misty, grew up in rural Webster County near
the town of Fordland, Missouri. She attended
Fordland High School and went on to study
English at Drury University. After a few years
into her teaching career, she was asked to
teach at Fordland High School where she has
been teaching for 21 years.
Misty knows the importance of education in
a rural community. The Fordland School Dis-
trict serves 550 students, and over half of
them qualify for free and reduced-price meals.
Despite this statistic, 97 percent of students
graduate on time, and 61 percent go on to at-
tend college. This would not be possible with-
out teachers like Misty who are passionate
about their students and their community.
Misty doesn’t just put in her time and go
home. She goes above and beyond for the
children of Fordland High School. Along with
teaching six courses, she also sponsors after
school and extracurricular activities including
the Beta Club. Through her work with the Beta
Club, she shares her passion for giving back
to the community with her students.
Every day, Misty walks into her classroom
not just to teach, but to instill lifelong values
into the children of Fordland High School. She
goes above and beyond for the children she
teaches and the community she serves. She
is well-deserving of this achievement, and we
are proud to have her represent Missouri in
the National Teacher of the Year program.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:23 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC8.026 E28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1352 October 28, 2019
HONORING MRS. DOROTHY
KATHERINE SPENCE BROWNING
HON. MARTHA ROBY
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mrs. ROBY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of Mrs. Dorothy K. Spence
Browning for her service in the Navy WAVES
during World War II.
Dorothy was born on January 2, 1922, in
Great Falls, Montana. She grew up running an
apple orchard with her family in Glenn’s Ferry,
Idaho. Later, she attended college at the Uni-
versity of Idaho and then began teaching in a
one-room school house in Pocatello, Idaho.
When the war broke out, Dorothy joined the
Navy WAVES (Women Accepted for Volunteer
Emergency Service). The Navy WAVES were
created in 1942, following the signing of the
Women’s Reserve Act. This landmark legisla-
tion allowed women to serve as an official part
of the Navy for the first time and helped pave
the way for the future of women in the United
States Armed Forces. The numerous contribu-
tions from the WAVES proved to be a vital
asset to winning the war.
Dorothy served in Brooklyn, New York, Still-
water, Oklahoma, Seattle, Washington, and
then finally discharged at Klamath Falls, Or-
egon. While living in Oregon Dorothy met her
husband John H. Browning. John was a young
marine from Mobile, AL, who served two tours
in Okinawa and Guadalcanal and later re-
ceived a purple heart for the wounds he suf-
fered.
The couple later moved to Montgomery, AL,
where they went on to raise their three chil-
dren Phillip, Steve, and Kathy. Dorothy was a
tutor for several local elementary schools,
taught Sunday school at Perry Hill United
Methodist Church, and would sew and craft
Raggedy Ann dolls that she would donate to
the church bazaar and local charities in Mont-
gomery.
Madam Speaker, it is my privilege to honor
Mrs. Browning’s legacy and her service to our
nation. Her contributions to secure and main-
tain our freedom will not be forgotten.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. LLOYD SMUCKER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. SMUCKER. Madam Speaker, had I
been present, I would have voted Nay on Roll
Call No. 579; Nay on Roll Call No. 580; YEA
on Roll Call No. 581; YEA on Roll Call No.
582; NAY on Roll Call No. 583; and YEA on
Roll Call No. 584.
f
CELEBRATING THE REVIVAL OF
THE REX THEATRE
HON. CHRIS PAPPAS
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. PAPPAS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the re-opening of the Rex The-
atre in Manchester, New Hampshire. After 30
years of inactivity, the Rex will re-open its
doors to Manchester and the rest of the Gran-
ite State.
Opened in 1940, the Rex Theatre served as
a performance venue until it closed in 1989. In
early 2019, after 30 years, the Manchester
Development Corporation and Palace Theatre
Trust, in collaboration with the City of Man-
chester, embarked on the tall task of ren-
ovating the original location of the Rex with
the goal of re-opening in the fall. Only nine
months after groundbreaking, the Rex is now
re-opening on time and on budget.
The re-opening of the Rex will continue
Manchester’s recent growth as a center for in-
novation and creativity. As a lifelong Man-
chester resident, I am excited to see the re-
turn ofthis historic Theatre. Venues like the
Rex Theatre help us showcase the many cre-
ative, passionate, and talented people who
call New Hampshire home. I am proud to see
investment in our local economy and in the
arts in the Granite State through projects such
as the revival of the Rex.
On behalf of my constituents in New Hamp-
shire’s First Congressional District, I want to
congratulate the Manchester Development
Corporation and the Palace Theatre Trust on
a successful renovation of the Rex Theatre.
Let us celebrate the revival of this historic the-
ater and those who work hard every day to
make New Hampshire such a wonderful place
to live, learn, and enjoy the arts.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE FOUND-
ING OF KING GEORGE COUNTY
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of the 300th Anniversary
of the founding of King George County in Vir-
ginia, taking place on November 15, 2019.
The area we know as King George has a
long and storied history that is integral to the
overall history and development of America’s
government and way of life as we know it
today. Its history stretches back over 10,000
years with its settlement by Native Americans,
through Captain John Smith’s explorations in
the early 1600’s, through the French and In-
dian Wars, Bacon’s Rebellion, the Whiskey
Rebellion, the American Revolution, the Civil
War, World War I, the Great Depression,
World War II and into the modern era. King
George has been the birthplace and childhood
home of Presidents, and home to some of the
very founders of our great Nation.
King George County has served as the
home of one of the country’s great military and
research development centers for over 100
years, as well as functioned as a focal point
for commerce and trade for our nation.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
recognizing the founding of King George
County. Words cannot express how grateful
we are to have a place with such history in the
founding of our great Nation. May God bless
King George County and its residents, and
continue to prosper for another 300 years.
CONGRATULATING HUGH HALPERN
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, it is with great pride that I congratulate
Hollidaysburg native, Hugh Halpern, on his ap-
pointment to be the Director of the Govern-
ment Publishing Office.
Mr. Halpern previously served as the Direc-
tor of Floor Operations in the Office of the
Speaker of the House of Representatives, and
spent more than 30 years in the House before
retiring in January of this year. During his ten-
ure, he served as the Staff Director of the
powerful House Rules Committee among
other committee roles.
Throughout his career in Congress, Mr.
Halpern was dedicated to working in a bipar-
tisan manner, garnering the support and re-
spect of House leadership, Members of Con-
gress, and their staff. In recognition of his
many achievements, he received the McCor-
mack Award of Excellence for Congressional
Employees.
Mr. Halpern has dedicated his life of service
to our country, and I am confident that he will
continue his outstanding work at the Govern-
ment Publishing Office. There is no one better
to fill this position, and I wish him the best of
luck as he commences this new chapter.
f
HONORING THE COMMUNITY AC-
TION PARTNERSHIP OF ORANGE
COUNTY ENERGY & ENVIRON-
MENTAL SERVICES PROGRAM
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in observation of Energy Awareness Month to
honor the work of the Community Action Part-
nership of Orange County (CAP OC) Energy &
Environmental Services Program.
CAP OC has been weatherizing homes and
providing utility assistance for Orange County
residents for more than 40 years.
Of the energy funds allocated between 2014
and 2018 to the 34 cities in Orange County,
CAP OC has invested more than 35 percent
into California’s 46th Congressional District,
which includes portions of Anaheim, Orange,
Garden Grove and Santa Ana. Among those
served in CA–46 by CAP OC were 6,659 dis-
abled persons, 9,677 seniors, and 3,504 chil-
dren under the age of 5.
During this same period, CAP OC issued
more than $5 million in utility assistance for
over 14,000 homes in the 46th District and
underwrote over $1.5 million in weatherization
services with improvements to 1,000 dwell-
ings.
This investment has provided an economic
boost for low-income individuals by lowering
energy costs and reducing or eliminating late
fees, thus assuring less dependency on public
assistance.
In 2019, CAP OC is projected to weatherize
a total of 330 homes in Orange County and in-
vest a total of $1.8 million into services that
reduce energy costs by 30 percent on average
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:23 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28OC8.030 E28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1353
October 28, 2019
and save families at least $238 per year. This
will help families to afford other necessities
such as groceries and doctor bills.
Other benefits of these services include the
elimination of carbon emissions, stimulation of
local economies, job creation, improvements
to the overall health of the community, and
neighborhood stabilization.
By sharing these statistics and benefits
through an October 30th Orange County
Weatherization Day Celebration, CAP OC is
working to inform more constituents of its im-
portant services.
Please join me in honoring the critical work
being done by the CAP OC Energy & Environ-
mental Services Program to help those in
need, to improve our communities, and to pro-
tect the planet.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF MARIO DE
FRANCESCO, JR.
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
along with my colleague Mr. COX to honor and
pay tribute to the life of Mr. Mario De
Francesco, Jr., who passed away on October
14, 2019. Mario was a successful Fresno
County Farmer and beloved member of his
community. His presence will be greatly
missed.
Mario was born on March 25, 1938 to Mario
and Pauline De Francesco in Gilroy, Cali-
fornia. In 1960, Mario married his loving wife
Carolyn Filice on December 4, 1960. Together
they raised five children, daughter Michelle,
sons Frank, Mario III, Michael, and Chris-
topher.
In 1972, the family relocated to Firebaugh,
California in the heart of the San Joaquin Val-
ley agriculture to expand their farming busi-
ness. With his father and brother, Mario start-
ed a food processing business which quickly
flourished and became one of the premiere
companies in the dehydrated onions and garlic
industry. The De Francesco’s products were
sold in the United States and worldwide.
Mario found his greatest joy in his family
and friends. He enjoyed life’s simple pleas-
ures, such as cooking and entertaining loved
ones in his home.
Mario is survived by his wife, Carolyn,
daughter Michelle and her husband Chris
Cardella, sons Frank and his wife Sandi,
Mario III and his wife Vicki, Michael, and
Christopher and his wife Linda. He also leaves
behind many grandchildren, their spouses and
great-grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, we ask our colleagues to
join us in honoring the life of Mr. Mario De
Francesco, Jr. His commitment and dedication
to farming in California’s heartland deserve
recognition. We join his family, friends, and
members of the community in honoring his
great life.
FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF
JAMESTOWN AREA MEALS ON
WHEELS
HON. TOM REED
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, today I rise to
recognize the fiftieth anniversary of James-
town Area Meals on Wheels.
The Jamestown Area Meals on Wheels was
formed on July 21, 1969 by Rolland Taft,
Vaughn Rudy, Harry Bloom and other mem-
bers of the community. In the past fifty years,
the program has served almost five million
meals—serving the community each and
every day one meal at a time.
Volunteers at Meals on Wheels bring
healthy, much needed meals to those who
cannot access them otherwise. They give of
their time, their energy and their passion to do
good in the world. This organization is made
up of people who care about those in need—
that is what makes them truly successful.
Today, the program delivers meals five days
a week and the meals they provide cover
seven days’ worth of food for their clients. This
service has grown from just a few clients in
1969 to many across the Jamestown area in
fifty years. I can’t wait to see how much of an
impact they have in another fifty years.
Given the above, I ask that this Legislative
Body pause in its deliberations and join me to
recognize Jamestown Area Meals on Wheels
on their fiftieth anniversary.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. FRED KELLER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, I had to
miss votes due to a commitment in Pennsyl-
vania.
Had I been present, I would have voted
NAY on Roll Call No. 579, Previous Question
H. Res. 650; NAY on Roll Call No. 580, Adop-
tion of the Rule Providing for Consideration of
H.R. 4617; YEA on Roll Call No. 581, Lesko
Amendment No. 2; YEA on Roll Call No. 582,
Republican Motion to Recommit; NAY on Roll
Call No. 583, Passage of H.R. 4617; and YEA
on Roll Call No. 584, H.R. 777.
f
COMMEMORATING ONE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY YEARS OF COLLEGE
FOOTBALL
HON. STEVE STIVERS
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. STIVERS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to commemorate one-hundred and fifty years
of college football. In 1869, Rutgers College,
now Rutgers University, won the first college
game against the College of New Jersey, now
Princeton University, with a score of 6 to 4.
Since then, this time-honored game has been
woven into the fabric of our nation and the
lives of countless Americans. I will always re-
member Saturdays spent at ‘‘the Shoe’’ as a
student at The Ohio State University, gleefully
cheering on the Buckeyes, and the comradery
I felt with tens of thousands of fans there.
As our differences are used to divide us,
college football allows us to celebrate what
unites our nation. We value grit and deter-
mination; we believe in teamwork, and in hav-
ing the will to succeed; we embrace our indi-
vidual roles to advance an idea or organiza-
tion that is bigger than us. College football al-
lows us to put aside our differences and rally
around a common, unifying cause: victory for
our team.
Knowing that nearly five million Americans
attended college football games during the
2018 season highlights just how ingratiated
this game is in today’s culture. It makes our
communities grow closer and gives each of us
a sense of pride that was honed during rau-
cous chants of ‘‘O-H-I-O,’’ ‘‘Roll Tide,’’ or
‘‘Hook ’em, horns.’’
Beyond the undeniable excitement and
sense of community our teams foster every
Saturday, it is undisputable that the stories
and memories made live on well after the
lights have been shut off. Commemorating the
memories, from the first game a child at-
tended, bonding with their parents, keeping
family tradition alive, to the tailgate where total
strangers became lifelong friends—it’s easy to
see the importance this game has played in
our history for over one hundred and fifty
years. I am confident that, for the next one-
hundred and fifty years, Americans will con-
tinue to eagerly await college football season
and the excitement, pride, and unity it brings.
Madam Speaker, I encourage my colleagues
to join me in recognizing this milestone for col-
lege football.
f
HONORING THE LEGACY OF JAMES
DOUGLAS COLQUITT
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the legacy of James Douglas
Colquitt, a veteran, a businessman, a dedi-
cated husband, father, grandfather, and a
champion of the marginalized and under-
served.
Born July 21, 1930, to Willie Colquitt and
Mary Naomi Brown, James grew up with his
brother, Thomas Meeks, in Valley Mills,
Texas.
After graduating from high school, he joined
the United States Army. His military service al-
lowed him to travel throughout the United
States and abroad.
A veteran of the Korean and Vietnam Wars,
James served his country for 20 years with
honor and distinction, earning personal deco-
rations and many unit certifications and
awards. In 1967, he retired at Fort MacArthur
Army Base in San Pedro, California.
He began a second career in aerospace
with Hughes Aircraft Division in Fullerton, Cali-
fornia. He realized a long-held desire to be-
come a business owner when he opened an
automobile tire center in Fullerton. He also
owned liquor stores in Santa Ana and Los An-
geles, which he operated for more than 20
years.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:23 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A28OC8.035 E28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1354 October 28, 2019
James became an activist in local civic or-
ganizations. He served as President of the Or-
ange County Branch of the National Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Colored People
(NAACP) for over 15 years.
In addition, he spent more than two dec-
ades on the Community Action Partnership of
Orange County (CAP OC) Board of Directors
as a representative of the NAACP.
He also carried out duties of Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of the African Amer-
ican Beverage and Grocers Association Schol-
arship Fund and was a long-term member of
the National United Merchants and Beverage
Association.
James was married to Betty J. Colquitt for
over 63 years and spent 50 of those years to-
gether in Placentia. James and Betty raised
four children, who blessed them with six
grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
Please join me in honoring the legacy of
James Douglas Colquitt, a patriot who dedi-
cated his life to his family, country, and com-
munity.
f
GENERAL JAMES N. MATTIS CON-
GRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL ACT
HON. DAN NEWHOUSE
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Madam Speaker, all of
Central Washington’s constituents are special,
and I am proud to represent each of them in
our nation’s capital. One constituent I am most
proud of is General James N. Mattis, deco-
rated four-star general and former U.S. Sec-
retary of Defense. He exemplifies the Amer-
ican principles of hard work, patriotism, and in-
tegrity. He can communicate and resonate
with everyone—from heads of state and Mem-
bers of Congress to local business leaders
and young students. His military and civilian
service serves as an example for all, and I am
honored to call him my friend.
Jim Mattis is a Washingtonian through and
through. He was born in Pullman, raised in
Richland, and attended college in Ellensburg.
When he enlisted in the United States Marine
Corps Reserve in 1969, I doubt he realized
the impact his service would have on the peo-
ple of Washington State—and the entire na-
tion.
His devotion to defending the United States
and our Constitution has earned the deepest
degree of trust, respect, and admiration from
our men and women serving in uniform across
the globe. He was the first United States Ma-
rine Corps officer to command a Naval Task
Force in Afghanistan following the attacks on
September 11, 2001. He bravely commanded
forces including the U.S. Joint Forces Com-
mand, NATO’s Supreme Allied Command for
Transformation, and U.S. Central Command.
When President Donald Trump nominated
General Mattis for United States Secretary of
Defense, he served honorably until December
31, 2018.
General Mattis is recognized around the
world as an exemplary military general, and
he is revered in Central Washington as a
hometown hero. Despite his outstanding ca-
reer and numerous awards, he remains hum-
ble and involved throughout Washington state.
From volunteering with the Tri-Cities Food
Bank to hosting ceremonies for Vietnam vet-
erans, General Mattis continually dem-
onstrates his commitment to our local commu-
nity.
The Congressional Gold Medal is the high-
est honor the United States Congress can be-
stow on an individual. The greatest generals,
thinkers, and leaders in our nation have re-
ceived this award, including, but not limited to,
George Washington, Ulysses S. Grant, Doug-
las MacArthur, and Harry S. Truman. I believe
General Mattis belongs amongst these giants
of American exceptionalism.
That is why I am introducing the General
James N. Mattis Congressional Gold Medal
Act with the full bipartisan support of the
Washington congressional delegation. If
signed into law, this bill would bestow our
hometown hero with this great honor. As I told
General Mattis, I will work my hardest to en-
sure he is the next distinguished leader to re-
ceive the Congressional Gold Medal. I urge all
of my colleagues to support the General
James N. Mattis Congressional Gold Medal
Act.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. GLENN THOMPSON
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 28, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, on October 23, 2019, I was absent
from votes. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘Nay’’ on Roll Call No. 579; ‘‘Nay’’ on
Roll Call No. 580; ‘‘Yea’’ on Roll Call No. 584;
‘‘Yea’’ on Roll Call No. 581; ‘‘Yea’’ on Roll Call
No. 582; and ‘‘Yea’’ on Roll Call No. 583.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, Oc-
tober 29, 2019 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
OCTOBER 30
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
Subcommittee on Water and Power
To hold hearings to examine the use of
technology and innovation to increase
water security and enable economic de-
velopment in the West.
SD–366
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of Sean O’Donnell, of Maryland, to
be Inspector General, Environmental
Protection Agency.
SD–406
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of John Joseph Sullivan, of Mary-
land, to be Ambassador to the Russian
Federation, Department of State.
SD–419
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine pending
nominations.
SD–226
2 p.m.
Committee on Finance
Subcommittee on Health Care
To hold hearings to examine Medicaid,
focusing on compliance with eligibility
requirements.
SD–215
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity
To receive a closed briefing on Depart-
ment of Defense cyber operations.
SVC–217
Committee on the Budget
To hold hearings to examine the Chief
Financial Officers Act of 1990.
SD–608
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Subcommittee on Federal Spending Over-
sight and Emergency Management
To hold hearings to examine the unau-
thorized and unaccountable govern-
ment.
SD–342
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property
To hold hearings to examine promoting
the useful arts, focusing on how Con-
gress can prevent the issuance of poor
quality patents.
SD–226
OCTOBER 31
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine supply
chain security, global competitiveness,
and 5G.
SD–342
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine S. 1665, to
modify the procedures for issuing spe-
cial recreation permits for certain pub-
lic land units, S. 1723, to amend the
Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Man-
agement Act of 1996 to provide for the
establishment of a Ski Area Fee Reten-
tion Account, and S. 1967, to promote
innovative approaches to outdoor
recreation on Federal land and to in-
crease opportunities for collaboration
with non-Federal partners.
SD–366
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Andeliz N. Castillo, of New
York, to be United States Alternate
Executive Director of the Inter-Amer-
ican Development Bank, Alma L. Gold-
en, of Texas, to be an Assistant Admin-
istrator of the United States Agency
for International Development, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:23 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A28OC8.040 E28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1355
October 28, 2019
Peter M. Haymond, of Virginia, to be
Ambassador to the Lao People’s Demo-
cratic Republic, Alina L. Romanowski,
of Illinois, to be Ambassador to the
State of Kuwait, and Leslie Meredith
Tsou, of Virginia, to be Ambassador to
the Sultanate of Oman, all of the De-
partment of State.
SD–419
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions
Business meeting to consider S. 1657, to
provide assistance to combat the esca-
lating burden of Lyme disease and
other tick and vector-borne diseases
and disorders, S. 2619, to amend the
Public Health Service Act to reauthor-
ize the Healthy Start program, S. 1399,
to amend title VIII of the Public
Health Services Act to revise and ex-
tend nursing workforce development
programs, S. 995, to amend title XXIX
of the Public Health Service Act to re-
authorize the program under such title
relating to lifespan respite care, S.
1130, to amend the Public Health Serv-
ice Act to improve the health of chil-
dren and help better understand and
enhance awareness about unexpected
sudden death in early life, S. 1608, to
provide for the publication by the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services
of physical activity recommendations
for Americans, S. 2629, to amend the
Public Health Service Act with respect
to the Public Health Service Corps, and
an original bill entitled, ‘‘Over-the-
Counter Drug Safety, Innovation, and
Reform Act of 2019’’.
SD–430
Committee on the Judiciary
Business meeting to consider S. 2511, to
amend title 40, United States Code, to
provide the Marshal of the Supreme
Court of the United States and Su-
preme Court Police with the authority
to protect the Chief Justice of the
United States, any Associate Justice of
the Supreme Court, and other individ-
uals in any location, and the nomina-
tions of Halil Suleyman Ozerden, of
Mississippi, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Fifth Circuit, Steven J.
Menashi, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Second Circuit, Jodi W.
Dishman, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of Okla-
homa, Richard Earnest Myers II, to be
United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of North Carolina,
Sarah E. Pitlyk, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District
of Missouri, Daniel Mack Traynor, to
be United States District Judge for the
District of North Dakota, Barbara
Lagoa and Robert J. Luck, both of
Florida, both to be a United States Cir-
cuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit,
Sylvia Carreno-Coll, to be United
States District Judge for the District
of Puerto Rico, John M. Gallagher, to
be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and
Sherri A. Lydon, to be United States
District Judge for the District of South
Carolina.
SD–226
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe
To hold hearings to examine the human
toll of Turkey’s policy at home and
abroad.
RHOB–2200
2 p.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
To receive a closed briefing on certain
intelligence matters.
SH–219
NOVEMBER 5
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of James P. Danly, of Tennessee,
to be a Member of the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, and Katharine
MacGregor, of Pennsylvania, to be Dep-
uty Secretary of the Interior.
SD–366
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:23 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M28OC8.000 E28OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1164
Monday, October 28, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6179–S6204
Measures Introduced: Ten bills were introduced, as
follows: S. 2712–2721. Page S6188–89
Measures Reported:
S. 439, to allow Members of Congress to opt out
of the Federal Employees Retirement System, and
allow Members who opt out of the Federal Employ-
ees Retirement System to continue to participate in
the Thrift Savings Plan. (S. Rept. No. 116–153)
S. 2177, to provide taxpayers with an improved
understanding of Government programs through the
disclosure of cost, performance, and areas of duplica-
tion among them, leverage existing data to achieve
a functional Federal program inventory, with amend-
ments. (S. Rept. No. 116–154) Page S6188
Measures Passed:
Combat Online Predators Act: Committee on the
Judiciary was discharged from further consideration
of S. 134, to amend title 18, United States Code,
with regard to stalking, and the bill was then
passed, after agreeing to the following amendment
proposed thereto: Page S6204
McConnell (for Toomey/Casey) Amendment No.
1196, in the nature of a substitute. Page S6204
Measures Considered:
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agen-
cies Appropriations Act—Agreement: Senate re-
sumed consideration of H.R. 3055, making appro-
priations for the Departments of Commerce and Jus-
tice, Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, taking action on the
following motions and amendments proposed there-
to: Pages S6179–87
Adopted:
By 90 yeas to 1 nay (Vote No. 334), Cortez
Masto/Lankford Amendment No. 961 (to Amend-
ment No. 948), to require a report relating to the
challenges that food distribution programs face in
reaching underserved populations.
Pages S6183–84, S6186
By 91 yeas to 1 nay (Vote No. 336), Jones
Amendment No. 1067 (to Amendment No. 948), to
provide funding for the relending program to resolve
ownership and succession on farmland. Page S6187
Rejected:
By 24 yeas to 67 nays (Vote No. 335), Paul
Amendment No. 1019 (to Amendment No. 948), to
reduce the amounts appropriated to be 2 percent less
than the amount appropriated for fiscal year 2019.
Pages S6184–85, S6186–87
Pending:
Shelby Amendment No. 948, in the nature of a
substitute. Pages S6185–86
McConnell (for Shelby) Amendment No. 950, to
make a technical correction. Page S6179
A motion was entered to close further debate on
Shelby Amendment No. 948 (listed above), and, in
accordance with the provisions of Rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, a vote on cloture will
occur on Wednesday, October 30, 2019. Page S6187
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the bill, and, in accordance with the provisions of
Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, a
vote on cloture will occur upon disposition of Shelby
Amendment No. 948. Page S6187
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that if cloture is invoked, the following dead-
line for first-degree amendments to Shelby Amend-
ment No. 948, and the bill, be 2:30 p.m., on Tues-
day, October 29, 2019. Page S6204
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the bill at ap-
proximately 10 a.m., on Tuesday, October 29, 2019.
Page S6204
Labor, Health and Human Services, Education,
Defense, State, Foreign Operations, and Energy
and Water Development Appropriations Act:
Senate began consideration of the motion to proceed
to consideration of H.R. 2740, making appropria-
tions for the Departments of Labor, Health and
Human Services, and Education, and related agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020.
Pages S6187–88
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the motion to proceed to consideration of the bill,
and, in accordance with the provisions of Rule XXII
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28OC9.REC D28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1165
October 28, 2019
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, a vote on clo-
ture will occur upon disposition of H.R. 3055, mak-
ing appropriations for the Departments of Commerce
and Justice, Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020. Page S6187–88
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination:
David M. DeVillers, of Ohio, to be United States
Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio for the
term of four years. Pages S6188, S6204
Messages from the House: Page S6188
Measures Referred: Page S6188
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6189–91
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S6191–93
Additional Statements: Page S6188
Amendments Submitted: Pages S6193–S6204
Record Votes: Three record votes were taken today.
(Total—336) Pages S6186–87
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 6:54 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, Oc-
tober 29, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S6204.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 34 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 4860–4893; and 2 resolutions, H.
Res. 657–658, were introduced. Pages H8538–39
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H8540–42
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 359, to provide for certain programs and de-
velopments in the Department of Energy concerning
the cybersecurity and vulnerabilities of, and physical
threats to, the electric grid, and for other purposes
(H. Rept. 116–254);
H.R. 362, to amend the Department of Energy
Organization Act with respect to functions assigned
to Assistant Secretaries, and for other purposes (H.
Rept. 116–255);
H.R. 360, to require the Secretary of Energy to
establish a voluntary Cyber Sense program to test
the cybersecurity of products and technologies in-
tended for use in the bulk-power system, and for
other purposes (H. Rept. 116–256);
H.R. 1781, to amend titles XVIII and XIX of the
Social Security Act to provide the Medicare Payment
Advisory Commission and the Medicaid and CHIP
Payment and Access Commission with access to cer-
tain drug payment information, including certain re-
bate information, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–257, Part 1);
H.R. 4334, to amend the Older Americans Act of
1965 to authorize appropriations for fiscal years
2020 through 2024, and for other purposes, with an
amendment (H. Rept. 116–258);
H.R. 886, to direct the Attorney General to es-
tablish and carry out a Veteran Treatment Court
Program (H. Rept. 116–259);
H.R. 3942, to apply requirements relating to de-
livery sales of cigarettes to delivery sales of electronic
nicotine delivery systems, and for other purposes (H.
Rept. 116–260);
H.R. 3111, to make administrative reforms to the
National Flood Insurance Program to increase fair-
ness and accuracy and protect the taxpayer from pro-
gram fraud and abuse, with an amendment (H.
Rept. 116–261);
H.R. 3167, to reform and reauthorize the Na-
tional Flood Insurance Program, and for other pur-
poses, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–262, Part
1);
H. Res. 655, providing for consideration of the
resolution (H. Res. 296) affirming the United States
record on Armenian Genocide (H. Rept. 116–263);
and
H. Res. 656, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 823) to provide for the designation of cer-
tain wilderness areas, recreation management areas,
and conservation areas in the State of Colorado, and
for other purposes; providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 2181) to provide for the withdrawal and
protection of certain Federal land in the State of
New Mexico; and providing for proceedings during
the period from November 1, 2019, through No-
vember 11, 2019 (H. Rept. 116–264).
Pages H8537–38
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28OC9.REC D28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1166 October 28, 2019
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Evans to act as Speaker pro
tempore for today. Page H8463
Recess: The House recessed at 12:12 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Page H8464
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Reverend Dr. Derek W.H. Thomas,
First Presbyterian Church, Columbia, SC.
Pages H8464–65
Recess: The House recessed at 2:09 p.m. and recon-
vened at 2:30 p.m. Page H8465
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Dignity in Aging Act of 2019: H.R. 4334,
amended, to amend the Older Americans Act of
1965 to authorize appropriations for fiscal years
2020 through 2024; Pages H8466–79
Full Utilization of the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund Act: H.R. 2440, amended, to provide
for the use of funds in the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund for the purposes for which the funds
were collected and to ensure that funds credited to
the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund are used to sup-
port navigation, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 296
yeas to 109 nays, Roll No. 585;
Pages H8479–84, H8519–20
Federal Disaster Assistance Coordination Act:
H.R. 1306, amended, to amend the Disaster Recov-
ery Reform Act to develop a study regarding stream-
lining and consolidating information collection and
preliminary damage assessments; Pages H8484–87
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To
amend the Disaster Recovery Reform Act of 2018 to
develop a study regarding streamlining and consoli-
dating information collection and preliminary dam-
age assessments, and for other purposes.’’; Page H8487
Notice to Airmen Improvement Act of 2019:
H.R. 1775, to establish a task force on NOTAM im-
provements; Pages H8487–88
Transparency in Federal Buildings Projects Act
of 2019: H.R. 2502, to amend title 40, United
States Code, to require certain prospectuses for pub-
lic buildings to be made publicly available;
Pages H8488–89
Veteran Treatment Court Coordination Act of
2019: H.R. 886, amended, to direct the Attorney
General to establish and carry out a Veteran Treat-
ment Court Program; Pages H8489–91
Preventing Online Sales of E–Cigarettes to Chil-
dren Act: H.R. 3942, amended, to apply require-
ments relating to delivery sales of cigarettes to deliv-
ery sales of electronic nicotine delivery systems;
Pages H8491–93
Amending the Securities Act of 1933 to subject
crowdfunding vehicles to the jurisdiction of the Se-
curities and Exchange Commission: H.R. 4860,
amended, to amend the Securities Act of 1933 to
subject crowdfunding vehicles to the jurisdiction of
the Securities and Exchange Commission;
Pages H8493–94
Coordinating Oversight, Upgrading and Inno-
vating Technology, and Examiner Reform Act of
2019: H.R. 2514, amended, to make reforms to the
Federal Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering
laws; Pages H8494–H8503
Financial Inclusion in Banking Act of 2019:
H.R. 4067, amended, to amend the Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection Act of 2010 to direct the Office
of Community Affairs to identify causes leading to,
and solutions for, under-banked, un-banked, and un-
derserved consumers; Pages H8503–05
National Law Enforcement Museum Commemo-
rative Coin Act: H.R. 1865, to require the Secretary
of the Treasury to mint a coin in commemoration of
the opening of the National Law Enforcement Mu-
seum in the District of Columbia; Pages H8505–07
Women’s Suffrage Centennial Commemorative
Coin Act: H.R. 2423, amended, to require the Sec-
retary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemora-
tion of ratification of the 19th Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, giving women in
the United States the right to vote; Pages H8507–09
Educating Medical Professionals and Opti-
mizing Workforce Efficiency and Readiness for
Health Act of 2019: H.R. 2781, amended, to amend
title VII of the Public Health Service Act to reau-
thorize certain programs relating to the health pro-
fessions workforce; Pages H8509–13
Title VIII Nursing Workforce Reauthorization
Act of 2019: H.R. 728, amended, to amend title
VIII of the Public Health Service Act to extend ad-
vanced education nursing grants to support clinical
nurse specialist programs; Pages H8513–16
Public Disclosure of Drug Discounts Act: H.R.
2115, amended, to amend title XI of the Social Se-
curity Act to provide greater transparency of dis-
counts provided by drug manufacturers, by a 2⁄3 yea-
and-nay vote of 403 yeas with none voting ‘‘nay’’,
Roll No. 586; Pages H8516–19, H8520–21
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To
amend titles XI and XVIII of the Social Security Act
to provide greater transparency for discounts pro-
vided by manufacturers, to include real-time benefit
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28OC9.REC D28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1167
October 28, 2019
information as part of a prescription drug plans elec-
tronic prescription program under the Medicare pro-
gram, and for other purposes.’’; Page H8521
Palliative Care and Hospice Education and
Training Act: H.R. 647, amended, to amend the
Public Health Service Act to increase the number of
permanent faculty in palliative care at accredited
allopathic and osteopathic medical schools, nursing
schools, social work schools, and other programs, in-
cluding physician assistant education programs, to
promote education and research in palliative care and
hospice, and to support the development of faculty
careers in academic palliative medicine; and
Pages H8521–26
Payment Commission Data Act of 2019: H.R.
1781, amended, to amend titles XVIII and XIX of
the Social Security Act to provide the Medicare Pay-
ment Advisory Commission and the Medicaid and
CHIP Payment and Access Commission with access
to certain drug payment information, including cer-
tain rebate information. Pages H8526–27
Senate Referrals: S. 2065 was referred to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce. S. 2107 was re-
ferred to the Committee on Homeland Security and
the Committee on Agriculture. Page H8536
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H8466.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H8519–20 and H8520–21. There were no
quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 8:56 p.m.
Committee Meetings
AFFIRMING THE UNITED STATES RECORD
ON THE ARMENIAN GENOCIDE;
COLORADO OUTDOOR RECREATION AND
ECONOMY ACT; GRAND CANYON
CENTENNIAL PROTECTION ACT; CHACO
CULTURAL HERITAGE AREA PROTECTION
ACT OF 2019
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H. Res. 296, the ‘‘Affirming the United States
record on the Armenian Genocide’’; H.R. 823, the
‘‘Colorado Outdoor Recreation and Economy Act’’;
H.R. 1373, the ‘‘Grand Canyon Centennial Protec-
tion Act’’; and H.R. 2181, the ‘‘Chaco Cultural Her-
itage Area Protection Act of 2019’’. The Committee
granted, by record vote of 8–3, a rule providing for
consideration of H.R. 823, the ‘‘Colorado Outdoor
Recreation and Economy Act’’, H.R. 1373, the
‘‘Grand Canyon Centennial Protection Act’’, and
H.R. 2181, the ‘‘Chaco Cultural Heritage Area Pro-
tection Act of 2019’’. The rule provides for consider-
ation of H.R. 823, the ‘‘Colorado Outdoor Recre-
ation and Economy Act’’, under a structured rule.
The rule provides one hour of general debate equally
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Natural Re-
sources. The rule waives all points of order against
consideration of the bill. The rule provides that the
amendment in the nature of a substitute rec-
ommended by the Committee on Natural Resources
now printed in the bill, as modified by the amend-
ment printed in Part A of the Rules Committee re-
port, shall be considered as adopted and the bill, as
amended, shall be considered as read. The rule
waives all points of order against provisions in the
bill, as amended. The rule makes in order only those
further amendments printed in part B of the Rules
Committee report. Each such amendment may be of-
fered only in the order printed in the report, may
be offered only by a Member designated in the re-
port, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable
for the time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent,
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be
subject to a demand for division of the question. The
rule waives all points of order against the amend-
ments printed in Part B of the report. The rule pro-
vides one motion to recommit with or without in-
structions. The rule provides for consideration of
H.R. 1373, the ‘‘Grand Canyon Centennial Protec-
tion Act’’, under a structured rule. The rule provides
one hour of general debate equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee on Natural Resources. The rule
waives all points of order against consideration of the
bill. The rule makes in order as original text for the
purpose of amendment the amendment in the nature
of a substitute recommended by the Committee on
Natural Resources now printed in the bill and pro-
vides that it shall be considered as read. The rule
waives all points of order against the amendment in
the nature of a substitute. The rule makes in order
only those further amendments printed in part C of
the Rules Committee report. Each such amendment
may be offered only in the order printed in the re-
port, may be offered only by a Member designated
in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be
debatable for the time specified in the report equally
divided and controlled by the proponent and an op-
ponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall
not be subject to a demand for division of the ques-
tion. The rule waives all points of order against the
amendments printed in part C of the report. The
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28OC9.REC D28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1168 October 28, 2019
rule provides one motion to recommit with or with-
out instructions. The rule provides for consideration
of H.R. 2181, the ‘‘Chaco Cultural Heritage Area
Protection Act’’, under a structured rule. The rule
provides one hour of general debate equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on Natural Resources.
The rule waives all points of order against consider-
ation of the bill. The rule provides that the amend-
ment printed in Part D of the Rules Committee re-
port shall be considered as adopted and the bill, as
amended, shall be considered as read. The rule
waives all points of order against provisions in the
bill, as amended. The rule makes in order only those
further amendments printed in part E of the Rules
Committee report. Each such amendment may be of-
fered only in the order printed in the report, may
be offered only by a Member designated in the re-
port, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable
for the time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent,
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be
subject to a demand for division of the question. The
rule waives all points of order against amendments
printed in Part E of the report. The rule provides
one motion to recommit with or without instruc-
tions. The rule provides that on any legislative day
during the period from November 1, 2019, through
November 11, 2019: the Journal of the proceedings
of the previous day shall be considered as approved;
and the Chair may at any time declare the House
adjourned to meet at a date and time to be an-
nounced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
The rule provides that the Speaker may appoint
Members to perform the duties of the Chair for the
duration of the period addressed by section 4. The
rule provides that each day during the period ad-
dressed by section 4 shall not constitute a calendar
or legislative day for purposes of clause 7(c)(1) of
rule XXII. The rule provides that each day during
the period addressed by section 4 shall not constitute
a legislative day for the purposes of clause 7 of rule
XV. The Committee granted, by nonrecord vote, a
closed rule providing for consideration of H. Res.
296, Affirming the United States record on the Ar-
menian Genocide. The rule provides one hour of de-
bate equally divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Committee on For-
eign Affairs. The rule provides that the resolution
shall be considered as read. Testimony was heard
from Chairman Grijalva, Chairman Engel, and Rep-
resentatives Bishop of Utah, Tipton, Lesko, Smith of
New Jersey, and Eshoo.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
OCTOBER 29, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine
the nominations of Lisa W. Hershman, of Indiana, to be
Chief Management Officer, Dana S. Deasy, of Virginia, to
be Chief Information Officer, and Robert John Sander, of
Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of the
Navy, all of the Department of Defense, 9:30 a.m.,
SD–G50.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: to
hold hearings to examine aviation safety and the future
of Boeing’s 737 MAX, 10 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine the nominations of Roxanne Cabral, of Virginia, to be
Ambassador to the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
Kelly C. Degnan, of California, to be Ambassador to
Georgia, Robert S. Gilchrist, of Florida, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Lithuania, and Yuri Kim, of
Guam, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Albania, all
of the Department of State, 2:30 p.m., SD–419.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to hold closed hearings to
examine certain intelligence matters, 4 p.m., SH–219.
House
Committee On Armed Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Future of Defense Task Force Hearing: Theories
of Victory’’, 10 a.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on Education and Labor, Full Committee,
markup on H.R. 4674, the ‘‘College Affordability Act’’,
10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Communications and Technology, hearing entitled
‘‘Repurposing the C–Band to Benefit all Americans’’, 10
a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Environment and Climate Change,
hearing entitled ‘‘Protecting the RFS: The Trump Ad-
ministration’s Abuse of Secret Waivers’’, 10:30 a.m.,
2123 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Consumer Protection and Commerce,
hearing entitled ‘‘Reauthorization Brand USA and the
U.S. SAFE WEB Act’’, 1:30 p.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Subcommittee on Over-
sight and Investigations, hearing entitled ‘‘Financial Serv-
ices and the LGBTQ+ Community: A Review of Dis-
crimination in Lending and Housing’’, 10 a.m., 2128
Rayburn.
Full Committee, markup on H.R. 4458, the ‘‘Cyberse-
curity and Financial System Resilience Act’’; H.R. 4634,
the ‘‘Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4841, the ‘‘Prudential Regulator
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28OC9.REC D28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1169
October 28, 2019
Oversight Act’’; and H.R. 4863, the ‘‘United States Ex-
port Finance Agency Act of 2019’’, 1 p.m., 2128 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on the Mid-
dle East, North Africa, and International Terrorism, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘The FY20 Budget: Examining the Adminis-
tration’s Policy Objectives for a Turbulent Middle East’’,
2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Trans-
portation and Maritime Security, hearing entitled ‘‘One
Year Later: Implementation of the TSA Modernization
Act’’, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Antitrust,
Commercial, and Administrative Law, hearing entitled
‘‘Antitrust and Economic Opportunity: Competition in
Labor Markets’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Immigration and Citizenship, busi-
ness meeting on the Request for a Department of Home-
land Security Departmental Report on the Beneficiaries of
H.R. 631 and H.R. 4225, 1:45 p.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Immigration and Citizenship, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘The Impact of Current Immigration Policies
on Service Members and Veterans, and their Families’’, 2
p.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Na-
tional Parks, Forests, and Public Lands, hearing on H.R.
139, the ‘‘Springfield Race Riot National Historic Monu-
ment Act’’; H.R. 486, the ‘‘Chicano Park Preservation
Act’’; H.R. 3250, the ‘‘Julius Rosenwald and the Rosen-
wald Schools Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3824, the ‘‘Cahokia
Mounds Mississippian Culture National Historical Park
Act’’; and H.R. 4139, to provide for the boundary of the
Palo Alto Battlefield National Historic Park to be ad-
justed, to authorize the donation of land to the United
States for addition to that historic park, and for other
purposes, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Subcommittee on Water, Oceans, and Wildlife, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘A Sea of Problems: Impacts of Plastic Pollu-
tion on Oceans and Wildlife’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Subcommittee on En-
vironment, hearing entitled ‘‘Trump’s Wrong Turn on
Clean Cars: The Effects of Fuel Efficiency Rollbacks on
the Climate, Car Companies and California’’, 10 a.m.,
2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Innova-
tion and Workforce Development, hearing entitled ‘‘Cre-
ating the Clean Energy Workforce’’, 10 a.m., 2360 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 1497, the ‘‘Water Quality Pro-
tection and Job Creation Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4719, the
‘‘FISH SAFE Act’’; and H. Con. Res. 37, expressing sup-
port for designation of October 28 as ‘‘Honoring the Na-
tion’s First Responders Day’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 4852, the ‘‘GIVE Act’’; H.R. 4356, the ‘‘Pro-
tecting Families of Fallen Servicemembers Act’’; H.R.
4183, the ‘‘Identifying Barriers and Best Practices Study
Act’’; H.R. 4360, the ‘‘VA Overpayment Accountability
Act’’; H.R. 3996, the ‘‘VA Design-Build Construction
Enhancement Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 1424, the ‘‘Fallen
Warrior Battlefield Cross Memorial Act’’, 10 a.m.,
HVC–210.
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, hearing
entitled ‘‘Protecting Whistleblowers and Promoting Ac-
countability: Is VA Doing Its Job?’’, 2 p.m., HVC–210.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of October 29 through November 1, 2019
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of
H.R. 3055, Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Act. If cloture is invoked,
the filing deadline for first-degree amendments to
Shelby Amendment No. 948, and on the bill, is at
2:30 p.m.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Armed Services: October 29, to hold hear-
ings to examine the nominations of Lisa W. Hershman,
of Indiana, to be Chief Management Officer, Dana S.
Deasy, of Virginia, to be Chief Information Officer, and
Robert John Sander, of Virginia, to be General Counsel
of the Department of the Navy, all of the Department of
Defense, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50.
October 30, Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, to receive
a closed briefing on Department of Defense cyber oper-
ations, 2:30 p.m., SVC–217.
Committee on the Budget: October 30, to hold hearings
to examine the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990, 2:30
p.m., SD–608.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Octo-
ber 29, to hold hearings to examine aviation safety and
the future of Boeing’s 737 MAX, 10 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: October 30,
Subcommittee on Water and Power, to hold hearings to
examine the use of technology and innovation to increase
water security and enable economic development in the
West, 10 a.m., SD–366.
October 31, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine S. 1665, to modify the procedures for issuing spe-
cial recreation permits for certain public land units, S.
1723, to amend the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands
Management Act of 1996 to provide for the establish-
ment of a Ski Area Fee Retention Account, and S. 1967,
to promote innovative approaches to outdoor recreation
on Federal land and to increase opportunities for collabo-
ration with non-Federal partners, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: October 30,
to hold hearings to examine the nomination of Sean
O’Donnell, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency, 10 a.m., SD–406.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28OC9.REC D28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1170 October 28, 2019
Committee on Finance: October 30, Subcommittee on
Health Care, to hold hearings to examine Medicaid, fo-
cusing on compliance with eligibility requirements, 2
p.m., SD–215.
Committee on Foreign Relations: October 29, to hold hear-
ings to examine the nominations of Roxanne Cabral, of
Virginia, to be Ambassador to the Republic of the Mar-
shall Islands, Kelly C. Degnan, of California, to be Am-
bassador to Georgia, Robert S. Gilchrist, of Florida, to be
Ambassador to the Republic of Lithuania, and Yuri Kim,
of Guam, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Albania,
all of the Department of State, 2:30 p.m., SD–419.
October 30, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine the nomination of John Joseph Sullivan, of Mary-
land, to be Ambassador to the Russian Federation, De-
partment of State, 10 a.m., SD–419.
October 31, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine the nominations of Andeliz N. Castillo, of New
York, to be United States Alternate Executive Director of
the Inter-American Development Bank, Alma L. Golden,
of Texas, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United
States Agency for International Development, and Peter
M. Haymond, of Virginia, to be Ambassador to the Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Alina L. Romanowski, of
Illinois, to be Ambassador to the State of Kuwait, and
Leslie Meredith Tsou, of Virginia, to be Ambassador to
the Sultanate of Oman, all of the Department of State,
10 a.m., SD–419.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: Oc-
tober 31, business meeting to consider S. 1657, to pro-
vide assistance to combat the escalating burden of Lyme
disease and other tick and vector-borne diseases and dis-
orders, S. 2619, to amend the Public Health Service Act
to reauthorize the Healthy Start program, S. 1399, to
amend title VIII of the Public Health Services Act to re-
vise and extend nursing workforce development programs,
S. 995, to amend title XXIX of the Public Health Serv-
ice Act to reauthorize the program under such title relat-
ing to lifespan respite care, S. 1130, to amend the Public
Health Service Act to improve the health of children and
help better understand and enhance awareness about un-
expected sudden death in early life, S. 1608, to provide
for the publication by the Secretary of Health and
Human Services of physical activity recommendations for
Americans, S. 2629, to amend the Public Health Service
Act with respect to the Public Health Service Corps, and
an original bill entitled, ‘‘Over-the-Counter Drug Safety,
Innovation, and Reform Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m., SD–430.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
October 30, Subcommittee on Federal Spending Over-
sight and Emergency Management, to hold hearings to
examine the unauthorized and unaccountable government,
2:30 p.m., SD–342.
October 31, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine supply chain security, global competitiveness, and
5G, 9:30 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: October 30, to hold hearings
to examine pending nominations, 10 a.m., SD–226.
October 30, Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, to
hold hearings to examine promoting the useful arts, fo-
cusing on how Congress can prevent the issuance of poor
quality patents, 2:30 p.m., SD–226.
October 31, Full Committee, business meeting to con-
sider S. 2511, to amend title 40, United States Code, to
provide the Marshal of the Supreme Court of the United
States and Supreme Court Police with the authority to
protect the Chief Justice of the United States, any Asso-
ciate Justice of the Supreme Court, and other individuals
in any location, and the nominations of Halil Suleyman
Ozerden, of Mississippi, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Fifth Circuit, Steven J. Menashi, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, Jodi
W. Dishman, to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Oklahoma, Richard Earnest Myers II,
to be United States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of North Carolina, Sarah E. Pitlyk, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri,
Daniel Mack Traynor, to be United States District Judge
for the District of North Dakota, Barbara Lagoa and Rob-
ert J. Luck, both of Florida, both to be a United States
Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, Sylvia Carreno-
Coll, to be United States District Judge for the District
of Puerto Rico, John M. Gallagher, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,
and Sherri A. Lydon, to be United States District Judge
for the District of South Carolina, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: October 29, to hold
closed hearings to examine certain intelligence matters, 4
p.m., SH–219.
October 31, Full Committee, to receive a closed brief-
ing on certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
House Committees
Committee on Agriculture, October 30, Subcommittee on
Biotechnology, Horticulture, and Research, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Reviewing the State of Organic Agriculture—Pro-
ducer Perspectives’’, 10 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
October 30, Full Committee, markup on legislation on
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Reauthor-
ization, 9:30 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, October 30, Sub-
committee on Health, hearing entitled ‘‘Safeguarding
Pharmaceutical Supply Chains in a Global Economy’’, 10
a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
October 30, Subcommittee on Energy, hearing entitled
‘‘Building a 100 Percent Clean Economy: Solutions for
the U.S. Power Sector’’, 10:30 a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, October 30, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 2153, the ‘‘Keeping Girls in
School Act’’; H. Res. 189, recognizing the importance of
sustained United States leadership to accelerating global
progress against maternal and child malnutrition and sup-
porting United States Agency for International Develop-
ment’s commitment to global nutrition through its
multi-sectoral nutrition strategy; H. Res. 230, expressing
the sense of the House of Representatives that the United
States condemns all forms of violence against children
globally and recognizes the harmful impacts of violence
against children; H.R. 1771, the ‘‘Divided Families Re-
unification Act’’; H. Res. 410, encouraging reunions of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28OC9.REC D28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1171
October 28, 2019
divided Korean-American families; H. Res. 349, reaffirm-
ing the vital role of the United States-Japan alliance in
promoting peace, stability, and prosperity in the Indo-Pa-
cific region and beyond; H.R. 4754, the ‘‘Taiwan Allies
International Protection and Enhancement Initiative
(TAIPEI) Act of 2019’’; S. 178, the ‘‘Uyghur Human
Rights Policy Act of 2019’’; H. Res. 585, reaffirming
support for the Good Friday Agreement and other agree-
ments to ensure a lasting peace in Northern Ireland; H.R.
554, the ‘‘Saudi Educational Transparency and Reform
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2881, the ‘‘Secure 5G and Beyond
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3763, the ‘‘Promoting United States
International Leadership in 5G Act of 2019’’; H. Res.
446, reaffirming German-American friendship and co-
operation under the Wunderbar Together—Germany and
the U.S. initiative; H.R. 1819, the ‘‘War Crimes Rewards
Expansion Act’’; H.R. 4802, to amend the State Depart-
ment Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to authorize rewards
under the Department of State’s reward program relating
to information regarding individuals or entities engaged
in activities in contravention of United States or United
Nations sanctions, and for other purposes; legislation on
the United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Extension
Act; H. Res. 649, expressing the support of the United
States for the grassroots development programs the Inter-
American Foundation has undertaken for the past 50
years; and H. Res. 546, disapproving the Russian Federa-
tion’s inclusion in future Group of Seven summits until
it respects the territorial integrity of its neighbors and
adheres to the standards of democratic societies, 10 a.m.,
2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, October 30, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Global Terrorism: Threats to
the Homeland, Part II’’, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
October 31, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Mem-
bers’ Day’’, 8:30 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on Natural Resources, October 30, Sub-
committee on Oversight and Investigations, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Sexual Harassment at the Department of the Inte-
rior’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
October 30, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Discus-
sion Draft Bill, Amendments to PROMESA Act of
2019—Day Two’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, October 30, Sub-
committee on Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Administration’s Decision to Deport Criti-
cally Ill Children and Their Families’’, 10 a.m., 2154
Rayburn.
October 30, Subcommittee on Government Operations;
and Subcommittee on National Security, joint hearing en-
titled ‘‘Examining the White House’s Dysfunctional Se-
curity Clearance System’’, 2 p.m. 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, October 30, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Force of Nature: The Power of
Small Businesses in America’s Recreational Infrastruc-
ture’’, 11:30 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, October
30, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘The Boeing 737
MAX: Examining the Design, Development, and Mar-
keting of the Aircraft’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, October 30, Sub-
committee on Health, hearing entitled ‘‘Native Veterans’
Access to Healthcare’’, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
October 30, Subcommittee on Disability Assistance
and Memorial Affairs, hearing entitled ‘‘Preparing for
Blue Water Claims—VA Status Update on Implementa-
tion’’, 2 p.m., HVC–210.
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, October 30, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Solving the Climate Crisis:
Opportunities in Agriculture’’, 2:30 p.m., 210 Cannon.
Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress, October
31, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Congress and the
Frank: Bringing Congressional Mailing Standards into the
21st Century’’, 10 a.m., 210 Cannon.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: October
31, to hold hearings to examine the human toll of Tur-
key’s policy at home and abroad, 10 a.m., 2200, Rayburn
Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D28OC9.REC D28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1172 October 28, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, October 29
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of H.R. 3055, Commerce, Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies Appropriations Act. If cloture is invoked,
the filing deadline for first-degree amendments to Shelby
Amendment No. 948, and on the bill, is at 2:30 p.m.
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Tuesday, October 29
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Consideration of measures under
suspension of the Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Brooks, Susan W., Ind., E1348
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E1345, E1347
Cleaver, Emanuel, Mo., E1345
Collins, Doug, Ga., E1348
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E1350, E1352, E1353
Costa, Jim, Calif., E1343, E1351, E1353
Deutch, Theodore E., Fla., E1344
Eshoo, Anna G., Calif., E1345
Estes, Ron, Kans., E1347
Fitzpatrick, Brian K., Pa., E1348
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E1350
Grijalva, Raúl M., Ariz., E1346
Holding, George, N.C., E1349
Joyce, John, Pa., E1349, E1351, E1352
Keating, William R., Mass., E1345
Keller, Fred, Pa., E1353
Kinzinger, Adam, Ill., E1350
Long, Billy, Mo., E1351
Lowey, Nita M., N.Y., E1344
Murphy, Gregory F., N.C., E1349
Newhouse, Dan, Wash., E1354
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E1346
Pappas, Chris, N.H., E1350, E1352
Reed, Tom, N.Y., E1353
Roby, Martha, Ala., E1352
Shimkus, John, Ill., E1347
Smucker, Lloyd, Pa., E1352
Stefanik, Elise M., N.Y., E1347
Steil, Bryan, Wisc., E1343, E1346
Stivers, Steve, Ohio, E1353
Swalwell, Eric, Calif., E1344, E1346, E1348
Taylor, Van, Tex., E1343, E1344, E1345, E1346, E1347,
E1349
Thompson, Glenn, Pa., E1354
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E1352
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Oct 29, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D28OC9.REC D28OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
