Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S2399
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, APRIL 11, 2019 No. 63
House of Representatives
The House was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Friday, April 12, 2019, at 2:30 p.m.
Senate
THURSDAY, APRIL 11, 2019
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Almighty Savior, the way, the truth
and the light, shed Your light today
upon the pathway of our Senators. Be
for them a source of light, life, and wis-
dom, as You use them for Your pur-
poses. Lord, keep them on the road of
integrity, guiding their thoughts,
words, and deeds. As they walk the
straight and narrow path, may they
not stumble or slip. Give them the wis-
dom and grace to be worthy stewards
of Your mercy, grace, and love. Keep
their hearts in warm fellowship with
their colleagues and their ears open to
the voices of the people they serve.
We pray in Your wonderful Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). Under the previous order,
the leadership time is reserved.
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of David Bern-
hardt, of Virginia, to be Secretary of
the Department of Interior.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak for 2
minutes as in morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
MEDICARE
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
some officials are proposing radical
changes to our healthcare system.
These proposals include Medicare for
All, Medicare Buy-in, Medicaid for All,
and expansion of the Affordable Care
Act. All of these are versions of govern-
ment-run healthcare.
These are, of course, better campaign
slogans than serious solutions to the
problems facing Americans.
On a certain level, I have found that
most people would rather have control
over their own healthcare than have
the government make those decisions
for them. A single-payer healthcare
system would be devastating for our
seniors, people with disabilities, and
people with preexisting conditions.
I yield the floor.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
NOMINATION OF DAVID BERNHARDT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Today the Senate
will vote to confirm the President’s
choice to serve as Secretary of the In-
terior. As I have discussed this week,
David Bernhardt is no stranger to the
Department. He has served twice be-
fore. In fact, this body has confirmed
him twice before. Each time his profes-
sionalism and dedication proved us
right. As Solicitor and as Deputy Sec-
retary, Mr. Bernhardt has offered capa-
ble leadership and a firm grasp on the
complex policy environment sur-
rounding our Nation’s public lands.
His expertise has not gone unnoticed.
Praise for Mr. Bernhardt has poured in
from a list of more than 40 stakeholder
organizations; from agriculture, trade,
conservation, and Native American or-
ganizations.
They describe him as a leader whose
‘‘experience is sorely needed.’’ They
laud his commitment to ‘‘make the
lands he manages accessible to the re-
creating public.’’
So we have before us an opportunity
to confirm a well-qualified steward of
our Nation’s public lands and re-
sources. Yesterday, a bipartisan major-
ity of our colleagues voted to end de-
bate on his nomination, and I hope
each will join me in voting yes once
more later today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.000 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2400 April 11, 2019
Of course, confirming Mr. Bernhardt
will be just the latest in a series of
many Executive Calendar accomplish-
ments. Following on the heels of last
week’s turn back toward the Senate’s
historic tradition concerning nomina-
tions, we have been able to approve a
number of the President’s nominees at
a much more reasonable pace in the
last several days.
I have noted, with particular interest
that, for all the breathless warnings
my Democratic colleagues issued about
the kinds of people we would be con-
firming, these unobjectionable nomi-
nees have actually mostly coasted
through on a bipartisan basis.
We saw support from both sides of
the aisle for Roy Altman to the U.S.
District Court for the Southern Dis-
trict of Florida, and for Daniel
Domenico to the District of Colorado.
We saw an overwhelming bipartisan
vote in favor of confirming GEN John
Abizaid to serve as Ambassador to
Saudi Arabia and a voice-voted con-
firmation for Jeffrey Kessler to serve
as Assistant Secretary of Commerce.
These are not lightning-rod people
whom my Democratic colleagues would
have eagerly debated and investigated
for an additional 30 hours. They are the
kind of thoroughly qualified public
servants who used to sail briskly
through the Senate without opposition.
Now, even as my Democratic col-
leagues continue to require us to file
cloture on individuals whom they actu-
ally go on to support, we are able to fill
out the President’s team at a more rea-
sonable clip. There are still many
empty seats left to fill, but this week’s
progress marks a great new beginning
not just for the administration that
needs its personnel but for the health
of this institution.
TAX REFORM
Madam President, on another mat-
ter, over the past year or so, I have
dedicated a large part of my time on
the floor to discussing the performance
of the U.S. economy, and at no point
have I struggled to find things to say.
Seemingly every day, we have been
greeted by headlines that tell the same
story: Under the political policies of a
pro-growth, pro-opportunity Repub-
lican agenda, Americans are experi-
encing a remarkable economic mo-
ment.
More than 1 year ago, I mentioned on
the floor that weekly jobless claims
had reached their lowest level since
1969. Last week, the Labor Department
reported that by this measure, the U.S.
economy has set yet another new
record. What was already a nearly 49-
year low has now dipped further to a
nearly 50-year low.
My colleagues and I have been busy
highlighting the American stories be-
hind these numbers—stories of recov-
ery and prosperity being written in all
sorts of communities, in all corners of
our country.
More than 1 year since a generational
overhaul of the Federal Tax Code lifted
burdens from American job creators,
entrepreneurs, and working families,
the headlines are continuing to pour
in.
With Tax Day just around the corner,
millions of working families have filed
for the first time under a law that has
allowed, according to nonpartisan ana-
lysts, the vast majority of Americans
to keep more of their money. They
have pocketed higher take-home pay,
wage increases, and special bonuses,
and they benefited from the booming
job market these policies have helped
ignite.
But old habits die hard. The Wash-
ington Democrats who were content to
watch as the Obama era piled up 75 per-
cent of new jobs and 90 percent of popu-
lation growth to the biggest metropoli-
tan areas are back to their same old
tricks.
In recent months, we have seen a
steady drip of leftist daydreams mak-
ing their way into press conferences,
resolutions, and out on the 2020 cam-
paign trail: a massive rewrite of Amer-
ican election laws and a power grab on
an individual’s right to exercise polit-
ical speech, a mandatory, one-size-fits-
all government-run replacement for
private healthcare for over 180 million
Americans, and an estimated $93 tril-
lion in taxpayers’ money to be spent
testing out new Federal social planning
schemes and abolishing the affordable
energy sources American families rely
on. Tax Day seems like an especially
fitting day to tell Washington Demo-
crats no thanks—no thanks.
The Kentuckians I represent prefer
to keep more of their own hard-earned
money. They prefer to make their own
decisions about their own families in-
stead of ceding more power to bureau-
crats.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
H.R. 268
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
Members of the Senate, if you look at
the poster I just put up, you know what
I am going to talk about—the dev-
astating floods in Iowa and the Mid-
west.
In Western Iowa, we still have areas
underwater from flooding on the Mis-
souri river and its tributaries. In the
east, we are dealing with the Mis-
sissippi River and tributary flooding.
Unfortunately, the weather isn’t co-
operating with additional storms and
rain throughout the Upper Midwest, as
I speak, that could exacerbate flooding
and hinder cleanup and repairs.
This flooding is still a very active
event, but as we move to recovery, we
know the original damage estimates in
Iowa are increasing. I can say that for
Nebraska as well. Many roads are still
closed; levy damage is extensive; towns
are devastated; and many individuals
lost their homes and businesses.
In just 6 of our 99 counties in Iowa,
416,000 acres of cropland was flooded.
Much of that cropland is still under-
water. These farmers are facing the
challenge of not being able to plant
this year. Unfortunately, many of
these farmers’ fields were just recov-
ering from previous years of major
flooding. In this area of Iowa, that
would have been in 2011.
This is compounded by many losing
their previous harvest through having
their on-the-farm storage bins de-
stroyed, as you can see here.
Throughout the Midwest area that
had severe flooding, 832 on-farm stor-
age bins have been identified as being
like these, destroyed. We don’t have a
complete estimate of that, but I think
832 on-the-farm storage bins would be
at least a figure up to a certain date.
These bins hold an estimated 5 to 10
million bushels of corn or soybeans, so,
collectively, that would be a loss of
worth between $17 million and $34 mil-
lion.
There is an existing program that
goes by the acronym WHIP in the De-
partment of Agriculture that is de-
signed to address agricultural losses
not covered by crop insurance and
other programs. I reached out to the
U.S. Department of Agriculture to see
if this program could be used for losses
such as those seen here, particularly in
Iowa and Nebraska, for corn and soy-
beans.
I was told because the WHIP program
was designed for other commodities af-
fected by hurricanes and wildfires, they
needed a few words added to the law to
extend the same help to these problems
we now have in the Midwest. I asked
what those words were, and I spoke to
Senator SHELBY, who manages this bill
on the floor of the Senate, and to Sen-
ator PERDUE, who has a great deal of
interest in the bill because of agricul-
tural losses in Georgia. These two Sen-
ators agreed to work with me. These
two Senators agreed to work with me.
So I filed a shorter amendment of a dis-
aster bill along with Senator ERNST
and several of my colleagues from the
Midwest to make sure that devastation
like this is covered. I am optimistic
that this simple fix, which will mean so
much to farmers facing such unusual
catastrophic losses, can be included as
the disaster bill moves forward through
the Senate.
Yesterday, as another way of helping
more than just this type of farmer but,
generally, other disaster victims, I
joined Senators FISCHER, ERNST, and
SASSE in introducing a tax bill that
goes by the title of the Disaster Tax
Relief Act of 2019. This bill includes a
series of disaster tax relief provisions
that will help American families and
businesses recover from the terrible
disasters that have occurred so far in
2019, including the Midwest flooding.
On February 28 I introduced a bipar-
tisan bill with Senator WYDEN that in-
cluded the same tax relief provisions
that would assist the victims of disas-
ters that occurred in 2018. So I view the
Fischer bill and the Grassley-Wyden
bill as complementary, providing dis-
aster tax relief with respect to the dis-
asters that occurred last year, as well
as this year. The bill that I introduced
in February also includes extensions of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.002 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2401
April 11, 2019
a series of tax provisions that almost
every Member of this Senate would
like to see passed. These are the tax
provisions that expired in 2017 and 2018.
We labeled all 25 or 26 of these as tax
extenders. These are things that, over
the last two decades, have been ex-
tended almost automatically after they
have sunset, and we need to get those
provisions enacted, just like the dis-
aster tax relief provisions.
I encourage the House Democrats to
send the Senate a bill that addresses
both tax extenders and disaster tax re-
lief provisions. When I say House
Democrats, people listening are going
to say: He is being partisan.
No, I am being constitutional. The
Constitution says that all tax bills
have to start in the House of Rep-
resentatives. The House of Representa-
tives is controlled by the Democrat
majority. So that is why I am saying to
the House Democrats: Get these bills
over here to us so we can help not only
the people that benefit from what we
call tax extenders but, more impor-
tantly, those who with the urgency of
the disaster that we are facing.
The importance of passing these bills
is because Americans need certainty as
they file their taxes in 2018, and they
need the tax relief as they recover from
these natural disasters. They really
need the House Democrats, under the
Constitution, to pass a tax bill because
we can’t act on these tax bills before.
The custom around here is that the
Constitution says that all tax bills
have to start in the House of Rep-
resentatives. If we pass even a simple
tax bill—let’s say we pass it as part of
an appropriations bill—and we send it
over to the House, they don’t accept it.
That has been the tradition around
here for centuries. That is why I am
calling on the House Democrats to
move that bill.
The disaster relief provisions in-
cluded in the bill that we have intro-
duced reduce penalties and make it
easier to access retirement funds so in-
dividuals and families can get back up
on their feet and rebuild their lives. In
other words, these are retirement funds
that people have set aback and that
the law doesn’t allow them to access
for disasters. It is just a simple thing.
If somebody is hurt by this disaster
and wants to go to their retirement
fund and borrow on it for a certain pe-
riod of time to help them get relief, it
is a pretty simple thing. Maybe, mo-
mentarily you could say it costs the
Federal Government something, but
they are still going to owe these taxes
regardless of whenever they start draw-
ing for retirement.
These bills also make it easier for
disaster victims to claim personal cas-
ualty losses, and they suspend certain
limitations on charitable contributions
to encourage more donations for this
disaster relief. For businesses affected
by these disasters, this tax relief is
available to help them retain employ-
ees while businesses get back up and
running.
Let’s continue the bipartisan tradi-
tion of helping our fellow Americans
with disasters. When these disasters
strike, we ought to do it by enacting
this tax relief for both 2018 and 2019, so
that disaster victims don’t have to
wait any longer to access this impor-
tant assistance and continue to get
back on their feet.
It may sound like I am talking about
something new. I don’t know whether
this just started with Hurricane
Katrina in 2005 or before, but I remem-
ber being chairman of the Finance
Committee then. We passed similar
legislation to help the victims of hurri-
canes. So this is really nothing new.
Since it is nothing new and we have
done it before, what is wrong with
doing it now?
The Democrats in the House of Rep-
resentatives can get this bill over to us
so we can get it enacted over here and
get it to the President. We want to pro-
vide the certainty that taxpayers de-
serve by enacting extensions of not
only those disasters but also the ex-
pired tax provisions. I encourage the
House Democrats to move swiftly. The
Senate and the American people are
waiting.
On another point about flooding, gen-
erally, not just dealing with this flood,
this flood brings to attention some-
thing we have to deal with, with the
Army Corps of Engineers.
Next week the Environment and Pub-
lic Works Committee is holding a field
hearing in Southwest Iowa to provide
oversight on the Army Corps of Engi-
neers management of the 2019 Missouri
River flooding. Senator ERNST, my col-
league from Iowa, will be chairing this
hearing, and I am going to be partici-
pating.
Flood control should be the No. 1 pri-
ority of the Corps in its management of
the Missouri River. I hope that tomor-
row, when I get to travel with Vice
President PENCE as he views the same
area that I viewed 2 weeks ago—the
same area covered here—we have the
Army Corps of Engineers there so that
we can talk to them about the issue of
the Missouri River Master Manual au-
thorizing eight purposes as they con-
trol the water up and down the Mis-
souri River. They do that through the
dams on the Missouri River.
It happens that seven of these can be
at cross purposes with the eighth one—
flood control. I hope flood control is
No. 1 and not No. 8. We need to discuss
with them how to prevent massive
flooding and how to act to ensure that
folks in Nebraska, Iowa, Missouri, and
Kansas are not faced with devastation
every few years. Eventually, this water
ends up in the Gulf of Mexico. So
States below Missouri are going to
eventually be affected by it.
I appreciate the stamina and deter-
mination of Iowans whom I have seen
out there, not only in this flood of 2019
but in the flood of 2011. The one of 2019
was much more devastating. I think we
have great resiliency. We will come
back and pull together to get the job
done, but there is a very long recovery
ahead of all of these Iowans affected by
it and Nebraskans and, maybe to some
extent, Kansas and quite a bit in Mis-
souri.
I will continue to do everything I can
at the Federal level to help the State
of Iowa, Iowa communities, and, more
importantly, in fact, as individual
Iowans are affected, I am going to help
them to recover and to rebuild.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. GARDNER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF DAVID BERNHARDT
Mr. GARDNER. Madam President, it
is an exciting day for Colorado. I have
known David Bernhardt, our nominee
for Secretary of the Interior—and the
seventh Secretary of the Interior from
Colorado should he be confirmed
today—personally and professionally
for over two decades. His roots are deep
on both sides of Colorado—in the High
Plains and on the Western Slope.
We share a lot of common interests
in rural development and in saving our
small towns. My experience stems from
growing up in the agricultural commu-
nity of Yuma, CO, in the Eastern
Plains, and Mr. Bernhardt’s formative
years were spent on the Western Slope
of Colorado—an area that is a micro-
cosm of all of the things that we cher-
ish about our great public lands. We
both began our public service only 1
year apart when we worked for Colo-
rado State Representative Russell
George, who would later go on to be-
come speaker of the Colorado House.
That is when I first met David. Mr.
Bernhardt worked with Jaime, my
wife, at the Department of the Interior
during the George W. Bush administra-
tion under another Colorado Secretary
of the Interior.
His personal background and public
and private sector professional experi-
ences prove he is a strong voice for the
West and is extremely well-qualified
for the nomination to be the Secretary.
In fact, there are few others who have
the kind of experience that he has that
enables him to be qualified to be Sec-
retary. Which Secretary of the Interior
has had more experience than David
Bernhardt or has been more qualified
to become the Secretary of the Inte-
rior? He has extensive insight on West-
ern water policy, natural resources pol-
icy, and on Indian affairs, just to name
a few.
Those who have worked with Mr.
Bernhardt commend him for his integ-
rity and wealth of knowledge on the
issues under the Department of the In-
terior’s jurisdiction.
In 2008, after the Department of the
Interior reached the largest Indian
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.004 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2402 April 11, 2019
water rights settlement in our Nation’s
history, Secretary Kempthorne person-
ally acknowledged Mr. Bernhardt’s
work as then-Solicitor and stated: ‘‘His
effective coordination—both within In-
terior as well as with the local, tribal,
state and congressional leaders—was
essential to the success we celebrate
today.’’
More recently, he worked to accom-
modate many Western States’ requests
for more flexibility under the Greater
Sage-Grouse RMP Amendment. John
Swartout, who as a senior policy ad-
viser ran point on this issue for Colo-
rado’s Democratic Governor John
Hickenlooper, had this to say in De-
cember 2018 once that process was com-
pleted:
David Bernhardt is an honest man who
puts all his cards on the table and keeps his
word. I have worked with DOI for 25 years,
and David is one of the finest people I have
ever worked with.
That didn’t come from a partisan Re-
publican or a partisan Democrat; that
came from a person in the Democratic
Governor’s office who worked with him
on natural resource issues.
Dale Hall, the CEO of Ducks Unlim-
ited, which is hardly a partisan Repub-
lican or Democratic organization but is
an organization that does more real
conservation work on the ground than
most of the groups that have the word
‘‘conservation’’ in their names, had
this to say when Mr. Bernhardt’s nomi-
nation for Secretary was announced:
I have known and worked with David Bern-
hardt for more than a decade, and we are ex-
cited to continue to work with him as the
new Secretary of the Interior. His integrity
in following the law is beyond reproach.
David Bernhardt is a champion of conserva-
tion and the right person for the job. We
urge the Senate to swiftly confirm him.
Colleagues of his from his time spent
working for Representative Scott
McInnis, who represented Mr. Bern-
hardt’s hometown in Colorado, swore
he worked 40 hours a day, 8 days a
week. Notably, during Mr. Bernhardt’s
tenure in his office, Representative
McInnis was the House author of the
bill that led to the designation of the
Great Sand Dunes as being a national
park. Having now worked at very sen-
ior levels in the Department of the In-
terior over the course of many years,
there is zero question Mr. Bernhardt is
qualified to do this job.
Along with Mr. Bernhardt’s profes-
sional career, I believe it is important
to fully understand his background and
the foundation of his interest in public
lands, which further qualifies him for
this role.
Mr. Bernhardt is originally from the
outskirts of the small town of Rifle, lo-
cated on Colorado’s Western Slope.
Few places more fully embody the spir-
it and mission of the Agency he has
been nominated to lead as Secretary
with that understanding of this public
land. Growing up in rural Colorado has
instilled in him Western values and in-
terests, and to this day, Mr. Bernhardt
enjoys hunting, recreation, the out-
doors, and fishing.
Rifle is located in Garfield County,
an area in which about 60 percent of
the lands are public lands. Rifle was
founded as a ranching community
along the Colorado River, and it re-
tains that heritage today, along with
tremendous opportunities for outdoor
recreation, including fishing, hiking,
skiing, rafting, and rock climbing. It
also sits at the edge of the Piceance
Basin, an area in Colorado that has
vast amounts of natural gas.
Mr. Bernhardt grew up in the oil
shale boom and bust and has said that
the boom and bust ‘‘has made [him]
more sensitive to the potential benefits
and the potential impacts, both envi-
ronmental and social’’ of energy devel-
opment. In the 1980s, Rifle was hit by
the State’s oil shale crash, and he per-
sonally experienced some of the hard
times that the Nation’s rural commu-
nities often face in those boom and
bust moments.
Much like the Department of the In-
terior itself, Rifle is a community that
is a product of its public lands and
Western heritage. It is centrally lo-
cated within a few miles of the iconic
Grand Mesa—the world’s largest flat-
topped mountain—the Flat Tops Wil-
derness, and the Roan Plateau. It rep-
resents a home base among these pub-
lic lands with there being virtually un-
matched access to world-class outdoor
experiences, which is why Mr. Bern-
hardt has such a passion for these
issues.
His previous experience at the De-
partment of the Interior allowed him
to fix a problem for Colorado that I was
told for 8 years, under the Obama ad-
ministration, was simply not fixable.
As a result, in 2018, revenue that had
been sitting in an account in the Fed-
eral Government for over a decade that
had been owed to three counties in Col-
orado were distributed back to these
Colorado counties and to the taxpayers
who had been owed this money. How
did this get solved after a decade of
saying it could not be solved? It is be-
cause David Bernhardt believes you
don’t just push the problems that are
on your front porch onto somebody
else’s; you find a solution and you fix
it.
Prior to his current position, his pre-
vious experience includes being tapped
to be the Solicitor of the Department
of the Interior. In 2006, by voice vote in
the U.S. Senate, Mr. Bernhardt was
confirmed to be Solicitor. In the last
Congress, he earned bipartisan support
during his confirmation process to be
Deputy Secretary.
His integrity and ability are assets
that should bolster the case for his
nomination, not detract from it. Yet,
over the course of the last couple of
months, the Washington, DC, political
smear machine has been working over-
time to sully a good man’s name. None
of what we have seen or heard in the
pages of the New York Times and in
other places has been new information.
I guess the hope is that we will take it
more seriously because this time
around, the New York Times is the one
writing about it.
Mr. Bernhardt has undergone two
separate and extensive FBI reviews for
both his nomination to be Deputy Sec-
retary and his nomination to be Sec-
retary. These reviews occurred after
the allegations were first raised, and he
was cleared for both positions, which is
probably something people didn’t read
in the New York Times. In under-
standing that these claims had been re-
viewed previously to the Senate’s com-
mittee’s satisfaction, Mr. Bernhardt’s
nomination was reported out last week
by a bipartisan vote of 14 to 6.
Madam President, I ask unanimous
consent to have printed in the RECORD
Chairman MURKOWSKI’s and Ranking
Member MANCHIN’s committee state-
ments.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
STATEMENTS FROM SENATORS MURKOWSKI AND
MANCHIN FROM THE BUSINESS MEETING TO
CONSIDER PENDING NOMINATIONS (04/04/2019)
SENATOR MURKOWSKI: (21:01)
Good morning everyone. The Committee
will come to order. We’re meeting this morn-
ing to consider three nominations. This is
for the nomination of David Bernhardt to be
Secretary of Department of Interior; Susan
Combs to be assistant Secretary of Interior
for Policy, Management and Budget; and
Aimee Jorjani to be chair of the Advisory
Council on Historic Preservation. I believe
that all three of these nominees are well-
qualified and encourage all members to vote
to report them favorably this morning.
As I noted last week Mr Bernhardt, I be-
lieve, has the right background. He’s got the
right experience to be an excellent Secretary
of the Interior. He has twice been confirmed
to positions at Interior with bipartisan sup-
port. First, to be Solicitor in 2006 and then to
be Deputy Secretary in 2017. He’s most re-
cently served as Acting Secretary since Jan-
uary of 2019. I understand that Mr. Bernhardt
has the second most prior experience at the
Department out of any nominee for sec-
retary, is from the West-I like that-he has
great familiarity with issues that will come
before him, and he’s proven that he can ably
lead the Department.
So, what everybody’s talking about this
morning. There is—there are accusations
about his ethics. We had this conversation
last—or two weeks ago when—when his name
was before us. I think it’s very clear you got
some pretty well funded groups that are
working very hard, very energetically
against his nomination. We saw new allega-
tions last week and then this morning there
is—is yet another report. And this is all—
this is all coming despite—despite the gov-
ernment scientists involved saying that
there was nothing amiss when we had that
conversation last week, Senator Gardner,
you certainly raised that. This week we’re
starting to see—we’re again seeing new re-
porting on old allegations. I don’t think that
this is a coincidence, that we are seeing this
kind of a roundup of reporting on old sto-
ries—and I think nonstories—just as we’re
approaching the markup here.
Interior’s Inspector General has reviewed
the matter as part of its due diligence. It has
not opened an investigation. In fact, our
staff checked with the Inspector General’s
office. We were told that there are no open
investigations into Mr. Bernhardt. We have
had as a committee I believe ample time to
review all of these allegations. I am aware of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.005 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2403
April 11, 2019
no substantiation of them whatsoever and
frankly I would be—I would be stunned if
they were to be substantiated. I would re-
mind members that both the Office of Gov-
ernment Ethics and the Designated Agency
Ethics Official have found Mr. Bernhardt to
be in good standing.
So, again, there—there will probably be a
question this morning, I would imagine, on—
on the New York Times article that is out
there this morning, but I would remind col-
leagues or ask you to look into these. These
allegations again contain no new
infoimation. This is recycled. It’s been re-
packaged. They’re now focusing on an in-
voice from Mr. Bernhardt’s prior Law Firm.
The law firm has said that it was labeled in-
correctly. Others have said it was labeled in-
correctly. It didn’t concern lobbying serv-
ices. We have known about this previous
work that he has had at Westlands. We knew
it back in 2017 when we confirmed him as
Deputy Secretary. And at that time this
work was not deemed lobbying. So, just be-
cause it’s in the New York Times this morn-
ing doesn’t mean that it’s correct. It’s my
hope that as a committee we will—will move
forward in affirming Mr. Bernhardt to be
Secretary of the Interior. And then the full
Senate will confirm him coming up here. I
think the sooner we have a permanent Sec-
retary at Interior, the better.
SENATOR MANCHIN: (30:50)
Thank you Madam Chairman and I appre-
ciate the committee—ensuring this com-
mittee moves forward on important nomina-
tions. We have two of those nominations be-
fore us this morning that I’m glad that we
are reporting from this committee and—the
nominations of Susan Combs, Assistant Sec-
retary of Interior of Policy, Management,
and Budget and the nomination of Aimee
Jorjani to chair The Advisory Council on
Historic Preservation. I think Madam Chair-
man gave a good overview of that. Com-
mittee voted to—to report both of these
nominations during the last Congress, but
unfortunately the Senate didn’t vote to con-
firm them before at adjourned. Each time,
the committee approved the nomination by
voice vote and I previously supported of both
nominations and I intend to do so again this
morning.
On David Bernhardt. As a former governor
and those who have served in executive posi-
tions, that I understand it, we’ve had to ask
our state senators and our Oversight com-
mittees about putting in our teams together.
And I’ve always been differential to allowing
an executive to put their team together as
long as the person is qualified and meets the
ethical standards. There’s concerns and I re-
spect those concerns. Mr. Bernhardt, in my
estimation met the test. He’s clearly quali-
fied. I think we all know that. He has the
knowledge and experience to serve as Sec-
retary, knows the Interior Department in-
side and out—that might be a blessing to
some, maybe a concern—and he is well-
versed in all the issues that come before him.
I spoke with him several times before this
business meeting regarding his nomination.
I’ve reviewed his follow-up questions for the
record following his hearing. He has an-
swered all of our questions in a timely man-
ner. We received them back and I think it’s
all been made record. I even talked to him
earlier this week by phone again. I ques-
tioned him again, extensively, about his
willingness to be a good steward of our na-
tion’s greatest natural resources, our na-
tional parks, our monuments, and all of our
historical sites. I questioned him about his
responsibility to balance our resource needs
with environmental protection in fairness to
the owners of our public lands, which is all of
the American people. I spoke to him about
the need to make sure that those who are
granted the privilege of using our public
lands leave them in better condition than
what they found them in, which is not al-
ways the case and we’ve got to change that.
And I had extensive conversation with Mr.
Bernhardt regarding compliance and ethics—
ethics laws and regulations, as well as his
potential conflict of interest. I was very
much concerned about that. Based on my ex-
tensive discussions with Mr. Bernhardt and
the assurances that he has given me, I’m pre-
pared to vote for him this morning, but I will
note that I expect him and the Department,
now I’ve put them on notice, hold them—
hold them to the highest ethical standards.
And I’ve told him that. I said because I sure-
ly will. I surely will hold him to be account-
able for his actions. He must work to ensure
committee and a commitment to ethical and
scientific integrity and I intend to work with
him and his staff persistently to ensure that
this is the case. Our parks and public lands,
our scenic beauty, our fish and wildlife re-
sources are important to all of us here, to
the people we represent, and my state, and in
your states. And West Virginians count on
the Secretary of Interior, as they do in your
States also, as the guardian of our public
lands. . . . I intend to work with Mr. Bern-
hardt these important issues. I’ve made it
clear to him that I expect him to put his ex-
tensive experience and knowledge of these
issues to work for the American people and
not to people used to work for. And to exe-
cute his responsibilities in the manner that
ensures that our public lands are not just
being maintained, but improved. Improved
for the benefit of generations to come.
Thank you Madam Chair.
Mr. GARDNER. Madam President,
let’s talk about that story and ethics
for a second.
Mr. Bernhardt has spent more than 15
years of a 25-year career in public serv-
ice, and most of that time has been
spent at the Department of the Inte-
rior. While in his private law practice,
he never lobbied the Department of the
Interior—not once. During his time as
Deputy Secretary, he has focused on
the fundamental transformation of the
Department and Bureau-level ethics
programs to ingrain a culture of eth-
ical compliance and reduce workplace
misconduct.
The reality is that the ethics pro-
gram throughout the Department of
the Interior had been, sadly, neglected
by the previous administration. The
Office of Inspector General and the De-
partmental Ethics Office had rec-
ommended significant resource
changes that had fallen on deaf ears
under the previous administration.
Under Mr. Bernhardt’s direction, the
Department has hired a total of 42 ca-
reer professional ethics advisers. By
the end of fiscal year 2019, they will
have doubled the number of career eth-
ics officials that the previous adminis-
tration had hired in its entire 8 years.
The record shows that he has ac-
tively sought and consulted with the
Department’s designated Agency ethics
officials regarding compliance with his
ethics obligations recusals.
In addition, he has installed a robust
screening process to ensure that he
does not meet with or engage in par-
ticular matters benefiting the former
clients from which he is recused. Every
proposed meeting is reviewed by career
professionals to ensure compliance
with not only his ethics agreement but
ethics laws and to make sure his ethics
pledge to the President is upheld.
His work in natural resources law
prior to joining the administration and
related ethics agreements are very
similar in scope and substance to the
private work and ethics agreements of
senior Interior officials who came be-
fore him in previous administrations.
Let me say that again. The same kinds
of ethics agreements and obligations
that basically he is doing are what pre-
vious administrations did as well.
I ask unanimous consent to have
printed in the RECORD a letter from the
Department of the Interior Designated
Agency Ethics Official dated March 25,
2019.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF
THE INTERIOR, OFFICE OF
THE SOLICITOR,
Washington, DC, March 25, 2019.
Hon. ELIZABETH WARREN,
U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
Hon. RICHARD BLUMENTHAL,
U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR WARREN AND SENATOR
BLUMENTHAL: Thank you for your letter of
February 26, 2019 regarding your expressed
concerns of the actions of the Acting Sec-
retary of the Department of the Interior (De-
partment or DOI). Your letter references an
article published by the New York Times on
February 12, 2019 discussing the Acting Sec-
retary’s legal practice prior to joining the
Department as Deputy Secretary in August
2017. Specifically, you asked about the Act-
ing Secretary’s involvement with the Cen-
tral Valley Project (CVP) in California and
whether his actions, ‘‘violated his ethics
pledge and federal conflict of interest regula-
tions by participating in decisions that di-
rectly affect a former client.’’ As discussed
below, we have found the Acting Secretary’s
actions have complied with all applicable
ethics laws, rules and other obligations, in-
cluding the requirements of President
Trump’s Executive Order 13770 entitled,
‘‘Ethics Commitments by Executive Branch
Appointees’’ (Jan. 28, 2017) (Ethics Pledge).
As an initial matter, I would like to take
this opportunity to inform you and your col-
leagues of recent developments and improve-
ments with the DOI ethics program that will
enhance our ability to prevent conflicts of
interest at all levels of the Department.
Since our arrival at the Department in April
2018, Deputy Director Heather Gottry and I
have overhauled an ethics office that was
previously characterized by both DOI em-
ployees and numerous Inspector General re-
ports as passive and ineffectual. With the
strong support of the Acting Secretary, we
have spearheaded a long-overdue build-out of
the Departmental Ethics Office (DEO) as
well as the ethics programs of the various
Bureaus and Offices throughout the Depart-
ment.
Our top priority as non-partisan, career
ethics officials, is to prevent conflicts of in-
terest at the DOI and ensure that DOI em-
ployees are aware of and comply with all ap-
plicable ethics laws and standards. We under-
stand the importance of our program in help-
ing the American people have trust and con-
fidence in the lawful and proper administra-
tion of the Department.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.001 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2404 April 11, 2019
Please know that my office takes all cred-
ible allegations of potential ethics violations
by any DOI employee very seriously and alle-
gations against senior officials are an ex-
tremely high priority. Consequently, when
the New York Times published its article, I
immediately sought to understand the facts
and carefully analyzed the applicable legal
authorities. We note that the Acting Sec-
retary also immediately requested that my
office look into this matter and to examine
the prior ethics advice and counsel he had re-
ceived.
Of critical importance, we note that the
Acting Secretary does not have any financial
conflicts of interest related to either his
former client, Westlands Water District, or
the CVP generally. As reflected in his Ethics
Agreement, dated May 1, 2017, and his Ethics
Recusal memorandum, dated August 15, 2017,
the Acting Secretary was required under 5
C.F.R. § 2635.502 to recuse for one year (until
August 3, 2018) from participating personally
and substantially in any ‘‘particular matters
involving specific parties’’ in which
Westlands Water District was a party or rep-
resented a party. Because Westlands Water
District is an agency or entity of a state or
local government it is excluded from the re-
quirements of paragraph 6 of the Ethics
Pledge. Additionally, consistent with U.S.
Office of Government Ethics (OGE) guidance,
it was determined that the law the Acting
Secretary had lobbied on for Westlands
Water District, Public Law 114–322, should
not be categorized as a ‘‘particular matter’’
because the law addressed a broad range of
issues and topics. Therefore, because he did
not lobby on a ‘‘particular matter’’ for
Westlands Water District, he was not re-
quired to recuse himself under paragraph 7 of
the Ethics Pledge either from ‘‘particular
matters’’ or ‘‘specific issue areas’’ related to
Public Law 114–322. Accordingly, the Acting
Secretary’s recusal related to Westlands
Water District ended on August 3, 2018, and
was limited in scope to ‘‘particular matters
involving specific parties’’ under 5 C.F.R.
§ 2635.502.
I have enclosed the transmittal e-mail
from me to the Acting Secretary with a de-
tailed memorandum attached wherein the
DEO consolidates and memorializes prior
ethics advice and guidance on certain issues
involving the CVP. Of particular importance
for a legal analysis of the scope of the Acting
Secretary’s recusals related to Westlands
Water District, the memorandum analyzed
and categorized certain issues involving the
CVP and related State Water Project as
‘‘matters,’’ ‘‘particular matters of general
applicability,’’ and ‘‘particular matters in-
volving specific parties.’’ As I state in the
transmittal e-mail, these legal categoriza-
tions are critical in determining whether an
official complies with the various ethics
rules. As reflected in the memorandum, we
determined that both the Notice of Intent to
Prepare a Draft EIS and the development of
a 2019 Biological Assessment are appro-
priately categorized as ‘‘matters,’’ not ‘‘par-
ticular matters.’’ Our determinations are
supported by Federal law and OGE opinions
and though the matters involved may sound
like ‘‘particular matters’’ or ‘‘specific issue
areas,’’ they are legally broad matters out-
side the scope of 5 C.F.R. § 2635.502. As noted
above, the Acting Secretary’s lobbying on
behalf of Westlands Water District on Public
Law 114–322 was not categorized as a ‘‘par-
ticular matter’’ and did not require an addi-
tional recusal under paragraph 7 of the Eth-
ics Pledge. Therefore, the Acting Secretary
was not required under either 5 C.F.R.
§ 2635.502 or the Ethics Pledge to recuse from
participation in either the Notice of Intent
to Prepare a Draft EIS or the development of
a 2019 Biological Assessment. Attached, for
your convenience, please find the legal ref-
erence materials addressed in the memo-
randum—I believe our interpretation and ap-
plication of the relevant legal authorities is
both reasonable and prudent.
I have advised the Acting Secretary, at his
request, that he and his staff should con-
tinue to consult with the DEO prior to par-
ticipating in any matter that is potentially
within the scope of his Ethics Agreement,
Ethics Recusal memorandum, the Ethics
Pledge, or any other ethics law or regula-
tion. Additionally, to eliminate any poten-
tial for miscommunication, I have instructed
my staff that all ethics guidance to the Act-
ing Secretary be in writing prior to his par-
ticipation in a decision or action that rea-
sonably appears to come within the purview
of his legal ethics obligations.
In closing, and to be responsive to your
final requests, the DEO has not issued any
authorizations or ethics waivers to the Act-
ing Secretary or other Interior officials on
the topics you raised, nor have we referred
any matters to the IG on these topics. It is
worth noting that the Acting Secretary
meets with me and my senior staff fre-
quently and that I have a standing meeting
with him once a week to discuss any signifi-
cant ethics issues at the DOI. Pursuant to
the Acting Secretary’s direction, my senior
staff also meets with his scheduling staff and
other top officials twice a week, at a min-
imum, to ensure we are aware of who the
Acting Secretary is meeting with and the
issues he will be discussing. These efforts,
supported by the Acting Secretary and his
staff, are designed to ensure his compliance
with applicable ethics rules and protect the
integrity of the Department’s programs and
operations. My experience has been that the
Acting Secretary is very diligent about his
ethics obligations and he has made ethics
compliance and the creation of an ethical
culture a top priority at the Department.
If you have any other questions or con-
cerns, please do not hesitate to contact me.
Sincerely,
SCOTT A. DE LA VEGA,
Director, Departmental Ethics
Office and Designated Agency Ethics Official.
Enclosure.
Mr. GARDNER. This letter is in re-
sponse to a letter from Senators WAR-
REN and BLUMENTHAL and states that
the Ethics Office has found that Mr.
Bernhardt’s actions as Deputy Sec-
retary and Acting Secretary ‘‘have
complied with all applicable ethics
laws, rules, and other obligations, in-
cluding the requirements of President
Trump’s executive order 13770, entitled
‘Ethics Commitments by Executive
Branch Appointees.’ ’’
This letter from the career head of
the Department of Interior ethics pro-
fessionals who served at the White
House during the previous administra-
tion goes on to say:
My experience has been that the Acting
Secretary is very diligent about his ethics
obligations and he has made ethics compli-
ance and the creation of an ethical culture a
top priority at the Department.
That wasn’t in the New York Times,
either, but I think it should be.
This is not about Mr. Bernhardt’s
ethics or his integrity or his qualifica-
tions; it is about the fact that he has
been and will be effective at imple-
menting an agenda that the other side
doesn’t agree with because they know
he will be effective in protecting our
great outdoors and our public lands.
I am thankful there are qualified
people out there like Mr. Bernhardt
and his family who are still willing to
wade through the muck and serve the
people of the United States, knowing
that they will be called a liar in front
of their children at a U.S. Senate com-
mittee hearing despite letters from top
officers in charge of our ethics laws at
the Department of Interior saying oth-
erwise.
I am thankful for David, and I look
forward to working with him and his
team at the Department of the Inte-
rior. I hope my colleagues will see
through the partisan rancor, see
through the lens of blue or red, of
party politics, and confirm a man
who—if you go back to Colorado and
talk to people like Russell George, you
will learn that he has the greatest re-
spect not only for our public lands but
for the people of Colorado, and for that,
I am grateful for him and my col-
leagues who will confirm him today.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Colorado.
HONORING STATE PATROL CORPORAL DANIEL
HOWARD GROVES
Mr. GARDNER. Madam President, I
rise today to honor an officer of the
Colorado State Patrol who was killed
in the line of duty on March 13.
As other Members of this Chamber
know, many parts of the country were
hit hard by a bomb cyclone storm sys-
tem last month. Again today, we are
going through another spring storm.
That storm caused flooding in much of
the Midwest, as we have seen across
the national news, and extremely haz-
ardous road conditions in my State,
which led to thousands of stranded
drivers.
State Patrol Corporal Daniel Howard
Groves, like many first responders that
day, was attempting to aid a driver in
the Eastern Plains of Colorado on I–76
who had slid off the road, and he was
struck by a passing vehicle.
Corporal Groves was 52 years old. He
leaves behind a large and loving fam-
ily, including his parents, his partner
Eddie, his four siblings, and many
more. We know that his family will
continue to honor his sacrifice and en-
sure that his legacy lives on.
Corporal Groves joined the Colorado
State Patrol in 2007 after leaving a ca-
reer in the technology services indus-
try in Chicago. His family and friends
remember him as a man with a tremen-
dous capacity to love and care for oth-
ers. He was a man of humor who wasn’t
afraid to crack a joke just to make
people smile. According to a fellow of-
ficer, he once arrived at training wear-
ing pajamas instead of the required po-
lice sweats.
At a memorial service honoring his
life, a longtime friend spoke about the
encouragement and advice that Dan
was known for. He always encouraged
others to follow their dreams, no mat-
ter how big. He often spoke of the im-
portance of family and friendship and
the need to make time to enjoy life
with others.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.003 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2405
April 11, 2019
His fellow officers remembered him
as a man who was drawn to service be-
cause of his desire to help, someone
who always knew the risks inherent in
the job but never let that deter him
from doing what needed to be done.
One colleague who spoke at the me-
morial remembered Corporal Groves as
someone who frequently asked, where
do you need me to be? He always want-
ed to be in the spot where he could be
most effective, no matter the danger
involved.
Even on the morning of March 13, as
the weather was taking a turn for the
worse, Corporal Groves knew there
were drivers on the road who needed
his help, and, as many law enforcement
officers did that day, he bravely ven-
tured out to offer assistance. This qual-
ity makes for a great law enforcement
officer but is sadly the quality that we
most often take for granted.
We owe a tremendous debt of grati-
tude to Dan and to all first responders
who are willing to put their lives on
the line to assist those in times of need
and a debt of gratitude to their fami-
lies as well.
I know my colleagues in the Senate
will join me in offering our thoughts
and prayers to the family and friends
of Corporal Groves and all those who
defend that thin blue line.
As I have done too many times in
this Chamber, I remember the words of
LTC Dave Grossman, who said: ‘‘Amer-
ican law enforcement is the loyal and
brave sheep dog, always standing
watch for the wolf that lurks in the
dark.’’
I drive by the spot where Corporal
Groves was killed at least two or three
times a week, and he will always be in
my prayers, along with his family, for
his sacrifice.
It is my hope that the thoughts and
prayers that we offer to those who wear
the blue uniform will bring them com-
fort as they carry out their solemn du-
ties.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). Without objection,
it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
ATTORNEY GENERAL WILLIAM BARR
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, well,
if anyone wonders whether Attorney
General Barr is a straight shooter, this
week, we got our answer.
Yesterday, at the Senate Appropria-
tions Committee, the country saw an-
other disconcerting performance by the
Attorney General. In the face of seri-
ous questions surrounding the release
of the Mueller report, the Attorney
General did exactly what President
Trump wanted: He dodged questions,
peddled a conspiracy theory, and, like
the President, lobbed baseless accusa-
tions. It is clear that for Mr. Barr, the
title he holds is far less important than
the boss he serves.
What he did not say is that Russia
attacked our democracy, as all 17
Agencies of our intelligence commu-
nity have confirmed. What he did not
say is that the intelligence community
concluded that the Russians infiltrated
our democracy to help Donald Trump.
What he also didn’t say is why he con-
tinues to wait on releasing the Mueller
report. It took him less than 48 hours
to summarize over 300 pages but over 2
weeks, and counting, to release the re-
port itself.
Instead of giving straight answers,
Mr. Barr seems to be nothing more
than a spokesperson for the President’s
campaign. He seems more like the
President’s Press Secretary than the
Attorney General. He is even using the
President’s own tactics: Admit noth-
ing. Deny everything. Make counter-
accusations.
Many of us tried to give Mr. Barr a
chance, but after this week’s perform-
ance, it is clear as day he and the
President are working off the same
playbook and planning to withhold cru-
cial facts from the American people.
What is really important is this:
When Attorney General Barr issues his
report, his objectivity will be in total
doubt. No one will believe, when he re-
dacts large parts of the report, that it
was done on the merits; people will be-
lieve he redacted parts of the report to
help President Trump. How will the
American people be able to trust Mr.
Barr, and how will the American people
be able to believe that his version of
the report is the real version when he
has been so, so partisan and was will-
ing to peddle FOX News conspiracy
theories before the Appropriations
Committee yesterday?
When Mr. Barr was first nominated
as Attorney General, the question
posed to him was, would he be part of
the Trump legal team or an inde-
pendent agent of the law? I think we
have our answer, as we watch him echo
President Trump’s statements and en-
able President Trump’s worst instincts.
Whether it is defending the administra-
tion’s dangerous healthcare lawsuit or
perpetuating conspiracy theories, Mr.
Barr is acting more like a member of
the President’s campaign than the
independent Attorney General he is
supposed to be.
Mr. Barr is letting down thousands—
tens of thousands—of hard-working
people at the Justice Department.
They are doing their job. When some-
one is given real information that Rus-
sia interfered with our elections, of
course they are supposed to look into
it. That is part of their job. For Mr.
Barr to label this as spying, echoing
some of the worst conspiracy theorists
in the country, he loses all credibility,
and that credibility is vital because he
will be issuing a report with
redactions.
When Mr. Barr issues his report, in
terms of what should be redacted and
what shouldn’t, his objectivity will be
in total doubt because of his perform-
ance yesterday.
Again, how will the American people
be able to trust that the Attorney Gen-
eral has given them the most informa-
tion he can rather than the least and
that he has given them a full view of
what happened rather than protecting
the President? People are just not
going to believe it.
The bottom line is that yesterday’s
performance calls into complete ques-
tion the objectivity and even the judg-
ment of the Attorney General. He does
not seem to be an independent actor
pursuing the rule of law. Rather, he
seems to be somebody simply ready to
help the President no matter what the
price.
H.R. 268
Mr. President, on another matter,
disaster relief, it is an absolute trav-
esty that this Chamber is recessing
without a compromise on much needed
funding for disaster relief.
From the start, Democrats have sup-
ported an ‘‘all of the above’’ approach
to helping every part of America that
is struggling from natural disasters.
We need to help everyone hurt last
year and everyone hurt this year—ev-
eryone hurt in Puerto Rico, everyone
hurt in the Midwest, everyone hurt in
Florida, and everyone hurt in Texas,
Alabama, Mississippi, and Georgia. In
the American tradition, everyone
comes together when we have disas-
ters, and we help everyone.
Our Republican friends seem to have
a different view. They want disaster re-
lief that explicitly denies Puerto Rico
the help it needs, even though they are
American citizens like everybody else.
They heard President Trump’s temper
tantrum at their lunch a few Tuesdays
back, and they have obeyed. This is un-
American. We should not be picking
and choosing who gets disaster relief.
When Americans suffer, we all step
in. We all help. President Trump does
not believe that, but where are our
Senators who are standing up for this
principle? The compassion of the
American people is much greater than
President Trump’s small-minded con-
tempt for the people of Puerto Rico.
The Senate, particularly Senators from
the disaster States who need that
money, ought to have the courage to
resist it instead of making up stories
and pointing fingers of blame.
Republicans have refused to present a
serious solution that can pass the
House and the Senate. We all know
that if Puerto Rico is not treated
equally, it will not be seen on the floor
of the House. We all know that the
Governor of Puerto Rico has said that
the solution Republicans are sup-
porting is not adequate for Puerto
Rico. We all know that.
It is a tragedy that the Republican
leadership in this Chamber has refused
to help American citizens before going
into recess. They own the mess they
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.010 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2406 April 11, 2019
are creating across America, and with
each passing day, the American people
see it.
TAX REFORM
Mr. President, tax day is coming up,
and we have seen another travesty of
the Republican Senate.
When the Republicans pushed their
tax scam, it was sold as a ‘‘middle-class
miracle.’’ They promised it would
prioritize middle-class families. Presi-
dent Trump and others promised Amer-
icans would get a $4,000 raise every
year. That is what President Trump
promised about his tax cuts. He said
that his tax cuts for the very wealthy
and the big corporations would benefit
every American to the tune of $4,000 a
year. Unsurprisingly, this Republican
tax scam has now defaulted on its
promise to lift up average American
families.
For too many Americans expecting a
tax refund, they have gotten nothing
or worse. After this tax season, the jig
is up.
In fairness, there is one part of Amer-
ica that has made a killing—the very
wealthy. Indeed, 83 percent of the bene-
fits in the Republican tax bill will
eventually go to the top 1 percent of
earners, and the American people know
it. A recent poll shows more than 60
percent of Americans believe the
wealthy and corporations—big corpora-
tions—have been helped by the tax law.
They are right.
Unfortunately, corporations aren’t
using their windfalls as our Republican
friends promised. They are not boost-
ing worker pay, by and large, or in-
creasing benefits or creating jobs. Ac-
cording to a recent survey, 84 percent
of companies say they have not
changed their plans because of the tax
law.
What are they doing with the money
they got? They are spending billions in
windfall on record corporate stock
buybacks, not benefiting their workers,
not benefiting their community but
benefiting the CEOs of the corpora-
tions, because the shares generally go
up, and benefiting the top 10 percent of
America who own 85 percent of all the
stocks.
Unfortunately, this story doesn’t end
in making the rich richer. American
workers are suffering while those same
corporate executives and the very
wealthy shareholders cash in.
Take the case of CSX, a freight rail
company spending billions of dollars on
stock buybacks after benefiting from
the tax law. Just last week, we heard
CSX announce that they are laying off
100 workers in Kentucky, Leader
MCCONNELL’s own backyard—not a
$4,000 raise but a pink slip. You would
think with all of these tax benefits
that workers would benefit. It doesn’t
seem to be happening. That story that
happened in Kentucky can be repeated
throughout the country.
It is hard to look at these examples
with a straight face and say that the
middle class factored at all into the
Republican tax bill. It was a trick—no
trickle down, just a trick.
As Americans finish their filings this
year, they will know exactly who to
blame if they see their taxes go up.
They will know who to blame if they
don’t get a refund or if they owe the
IRS.
The tax bill is already a stunningly
unpopular piece of legislation. I don’t
recall a single Republican campaigning
on it. It shows they weren’t proud of it.
After this tax season, the Republican
tax bill will be even further crystalized
in the minds of everyday Americans as
a scam that left them out to dry while
soaking the ultrawealthy with even
more wealth.
NOMINATION OF DAVID BERNHARDT
Mr. President, on Mr. Bernhardt, yes-
terday, I sat down with David Bern-
hardt, President Trump’s choice for
Secretary of the Interior, and I pressed
him on some things that we should all
know before we vote on his confirma-
tion.
I asked Mr. Bernhardt: Do you agree
that climate change is real, caused by
humans, and that we must act? I asked
Mr. Bernhardt if he will commit to not
opening up the waters off our coasts to
harmful drilling, even off the coasts of
States opposed to such drilling, and
what he will do about his well-docu-
mented web of conflicting interests. I
got no answers to these questions.
I remind all of my colleagues on the
Atlantic coast that, again, I asked him
to at least commit that he will not do
drilling off the shores of States that
didn’t want drilling off their shores. He
would not commit to that, and there is
word that there is a plan in the Inte-
rior Department to allow that to hap-
pen.
This is the same administration that
promised to clean the swamp and rid
Washington of corruption. Yet it is a
twisted parody to think that President
Trump wants an oil and gas lobbyist to
lead the Department of the Interior.
What a contradiction. What a betrayal.
It doesn’t stop there. Bernhardt re-
portedly participated in efforts to
launch a White House climate denial
panel, the sole purpose of which was to
rebuke accepted science. We cannot
allow the work of our Federal Agencies
to fall into the hands of people like
this.
It is hard to imagine someone whose
background is so at odds with the De-
partment’s mission as Bernhardt’s. In
good conscience, I cannot vote in favor
of his confirmation. For the same rea-
sons, I urge all of my fellow Senators,
particularly those along the coasts, to
vote against this nomination to pro-
tect their shoreline and their beaches.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Carolina.
REMEMBERING FRITZ HOLLINGS
Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak on behalf
of Senator Hollings’ passing, along
with my colleague Senator SCOTT from
South Carolina.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. GRAHAM. Thank you.
Mr. President, Senator SCOTT and I
have come to the floor today to recog-
nize a legend in South Carolina and
this body, Senator Fritz Hollings, who
passed away on April 6 in Isle of Palms,
SC. He was 97. He loved Isle of Palms.
That was his place to be.
He was born in Charleston, SC, in
1922. He graduated from the Citadel in
1942. He attended the University of
South Carolina School of Law. He
served as an artillery officer in World
War II, earned a Bronze Star, and fin-
ished with the rank of captain.
He was in the State house of rep-
resentatives from 1949 to 1954. He be-
came our Governor in 1958 at age 36. He
shepherded South Carolina through the
turbulent times of the civil rights
movement. He urged the legislature to
follow the law after Brown v. Board of
Education.
He established the best technical col-
lege system in the country. We say
that with great pride. It was Fritz Hol-
lings who was the father of the South
Carolina technical college system,
which has resulted in thousands of jobs
being created and educational oppor-
tunity for millions in our State.
When he was a Senator, they called
him the Senator from central casting.
He looked the part, he acted the part,
and he sounded the part. He was the
junior Senator for 36 years, I think, in
South Carolina, with Senator Thur-
mond being the senior Senator. When
Senator Thurmond retired, I was hon-
ored to be able to take his place, and
Fritz was my senior Senator for 2
years.
I just want to thank him and recog-
nize what he did for me to become es-
tablished in the Senate. He was kind.
He was gracious. We did not agree on
policy, but he could not have been a
better friend.
I spent half of my time trying to in-
terpret what he was saying on the
floor. I caught about every third word.
He has this Charleston accent that
even I couldn’t understand at times.
Nobody enjoyed their job more than
Senator Hollings. Nobody was ever bet-
ter at it. When it came to South Caro-
lina, Senator Hollings was able to
move mountains. He was the chairman
of the Commerce Committee and the
Budget Committee.
He was one of the great environ-
mentalists of our time. The ACE Basin
in South Carolina is a beautiful place
along the coast where three major riv-
ers come together. It was Senator Hol-
lings who established that, now and
forever to be preserved. He helped es-
tablish NOAA, which has done so much
for our oceans.
He was part of the Gramm-Rudman-
Hollings Balanced Budget Act. He was
always trying to keep our fiscal house
in order.
He was a champion of the military.
Being a World War II veteran himself,
he always looked out for those in uni-
form. Senator Thurmond and Hollings
were giants of their time, and they
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.011 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2407
April 11, 2019
really made a difference for our State
and for the country as a whole.
When it comes to his distinguished
career in the Senate, Fritz Hollings
was at the top of anybody’s list. He
served for 38 years.
He was a tireless advocate for the
hungry—for hunger. He was trying to
combat hunger and poverty before it
was cool. He traveled all over this
world to try to spread the good news
about America.
After Senate life, he established the
Hollings Center for International Dia-
logue to create exchanges in dialogue
between the United States and mostly
Muslim populations. He was ahead of
his time there. For us to win this war
on terror, we have to side with people
in the faith who reject radical Islam,
which the overwhelming majority of
people reject, and Fritz understood
that.
He was a great husband, father,
grandfather, and great-grandfather. He
was my friend.
He had the eighth longest tour of
duty in the U.S. Senate in the history
of the body. Yesterday, with Senator
SCOTT’s help, we passed a resolution
unanimously—every Senator signed
on—honoring the service of Senator
Hollings.
There are so many friends of his in
this body. The staff and former Sen-
ators all will tell you that Fritz was a
force of nature. He had strong opinions.
He would share them with you whether
you asked him or not. He knew what he
was talking about. He was prepared. He
was a fighter for his causes. He was
willing to die for his country. Now he
has passed, and the legacy for the peo-
ple of South Carolina will be enduring.
Our beaches and our oceans and our
mountains and our rivers are better off
for his service. Our educational system
stands out on the technical school side
because of his vision. He shepherded us
through very turbulent times during
the civil rights movement, where other
States were literally on fire. South
Carolina had problems, but they paled
in comparison to most because of Sen-
ator Hollings’ leadership.
He was a lawyer. He loved the law. He
was my friend. Senator SCOTT is from
Charleston, and both of us have a tough
act to follow when it comes to being
Senators in South Carolina. Senator
Hollings’ way was to fight for your
causes, work across the aisle, know
what you are talking about before you
speak, and try to do it with good
humor. What more can you say? From
the time he was a young man in
Charleston until he passed away on
April 6, he was always fighting for his
causes. He loved his State. He delivered
for the people of South Carolina.
When it comes to the Senate, he was
a legend. His presence was felt up here.
His legacy is enduring. He fought the
good fight. He was a faithful servant,
and now he will enjoy an eternal rest.
To his family, I know you are grieving,
but you have much to be proud of. To
the people of South Carolina, it is not
about being a Republican or a Demo-
crat in terms of service; it is about how
much you love your State. No Repub-
lican and no Democrat ever loved
South Carolina more than Fritz Hol-
lings, and no Senator has ever made
more of a difference than Senator Hol-
lings.
So Senator SCOTT and I will do our
best to keep up this good man’s legacy.
We will have different policy choices,
and we will go down a different polit-
ical path, but we will be ever mindful
of the way we do our job. The way we
do our job matters as much as what
you do. Let it be said that when it
came to doing his job, Fritz Hollings
did it professionally, effectively, and
with love and passion.
I now yield to Senator SCOTT of
South Carolina.
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina. Mr.
President, I thank Senator GRAHAM for
yielding to me. Without any question, I
think Senator GRAHAM did such a great
job of distilling the life and some of the
accomplishments of Senator Hollings.
Without any question, I cannot imag-
ine Mr. GRAHAM spending 36 years or so
as a junior Senator from the great
State of South Carolina because of the
long tenure of the senior Senator,
Strom Thurmond, whose seat you have.
I have the privilege of being in the seat
of Senator Hollings, who, of course, is
from Charleston, as I am from Charles-
ton. I think of the commonalities we
all share as South Carolinians, and cer-
tainly ones who are not—all of us from
South Carolina understand how hard it
is to understand those folks who speak
in the old Charleston brogue, the lan-
guage of Senator Hollings and folks
like our cousin, Arthur Ravenel, who
shares the same inflection in his voice.
Senator GRAHAM brought back some
very fond memories with his thoughts.
To the family, the Hollings family,
we certainly extend our condolences. I
had the chance to speak with Michael,
his son, just the other day, and the
family is doing well. The family is en-
couraged by the outpouring of love and
support from so many folks from the
Senate and throughout the country be-
cause Senator Hollings was not only a
South Carolina Senator, he was Amer-
ica’s Senator. He spent a lot of time
doing a lot of things that made a sig-
nificant difference.
I do want to put a little meat on the
bones. As Senator GRAHAM has covered
so much of what I would have said, I
will not say it twice. I will, perhaps,
drill into a few of the times of service
Senator Hollings had.
As we think through the 1960s and as
we read through the 1960s, we read
through a time of volatility, a time
where our Nation is clashing with one
another, where the races were so di-
vided. In the Deep South, we perhaps
led in that direction of conflict. We
have a provocative history on race in
South Carolina. Without any question,
Senator Hollings did what so many
others did not do, which is, he led for a
peaceful integration of what is today
one of America’s great public univer-
sities, Clemson University. I say that
as a South Carolina fan, without any
question, but it is no doubt that Har-
vey Gantt, being the first African
American in Clemson to graduate from
Clemson, was a monumental shift in
southern education, one we can all cel-
ebrate today.
I went to church with Harvey Gantt’s
family for 20-plus years at Morris
Street Baptist Church in Charleston,
SC, and I will say that, perhaps as a
part of the springboard of controversy
and challenge and conflict, it led to a
level of greatness in Harvey Gantt’s
life as he took arrows that most of us
are unfamiliar with. Senator Hollings—
then-Governor Hollings—took arrows
that some would be unfamiliar with in
making the decision to ask for and to
encourage and support a peaceful tran-
sition in a State at the time broiled in
controversy. Harvey Gantt went on, of
course, to be the first African-Amer-
ican mayor of the city of Charlotte,
NC.
In thinking about Senator GRAHAM’s
comments as it relates to the technical
college system in South Carolina, how
Senator Hollings birthed that for our
State, that may sound like a good ac-
complishment, but for a State that
faced extinction from an economic
standpoint, when industries were leav-
ing our State, the technical college
system became the springboard, once
again, for the great city of South Caro-
lina to see a rebirth of our economic
systems. What we have today is a man-
ufacturing haven whose foundation is
the technical college system. When we
think about companies like BMW, Boe-
ing, Volvo, Mercedes, Bosch, Michelin,
Bridgestone, all these companies be-
came a part of the corporate family in
South Carolina because we had a
healthy, thriving technical college sys-
tem born because of the leadership of
Senator Hollings.
Senator Hollings not only succeeded
in public life, but he also succeeded in
his private life. I will tell you that I
cannot imagine the reunion between
Senator Hollings and his wife, Peatsy,
of over 40 years. I can’t imagine the
celebration that is happening in Heav-
en as those two are being reunited and
spending time talking about what has
occurred over their lifetimes and the
things they had to see.
There is an amazing Greek proverb
that I want to end with, as it relates to
Senator Hollings, that says that a soci-
ety grows when old men plant trees
whose shade they know they will never
sit under.
Senator GRAHAM and I, the young-
sters, comparatively speaking to Sen-
ator Hollings and Senator Thurmond—
we are sitting under the shade of that
tree. Our Nation benefits from people
who have the wisdom to look forward,
beyond their lifetime, and create a
country where we all benefit.
TAX REFORM
Mr. President, before I yield the
floor, I do want to spend a few minutes
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.012 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2408 April 11, 2019
talking about what is an obvious day
in our near future—tax day. Americans
from coast to coast are thrilled with
the opportunity to finish their taxes. I
say that with the poorest tongue in
cheek. I will say that without any
question I am excited about this tax
season because of the success of our tax
reform in December 2017. It is exciting
to think about the benefits to so many
families throughout this country be-
cause of the successful passage of the
tax reform bill in December 2017.
I stood on the floor and listened to
other speakers talk about how perhaps
the tax reform package has not deliv-
ered consistent with the promises made
during the debate. I would like to put
some meat on those bones as well.
When you think about the average
family who has kids, the doubling of
the child tax credit from $1,000 to $2,000
and allowing for more refundability to
happen because of the child tax credit
being increased, more families today
are healthier because of the doubling of
the child tax credit, which is good
news. When you think about the size of
the refund, $2,873 is, in fact, consistent
with the refunds of years gone by,
which, once again, reinforces the fact
that the tax reform bill has presented
itself in a positive way and produced
results consistent with what we sug-
gested. Because if you get the same re-
fund you had last time—about—but
you have more money in your take-
home pay every payday during 2018,
you actually can measure the success
of the tax reform by looking at how
many dollars you had in your paycheck
in 2018 versus 2017, even if your em-
ployer did not give you a raise. So the
success of our package is without ques-
tion.
I would like to suggest that as you
think about folks like me, and perhaps
others in this body who were raised by
single parents, a single mom in 2018
with two children did not have a Fed-
eral tax burden at all until her income
hit over $54,000. That is important, and
it is powerful for a specific reason. The
average single mother makes around
$40,000 a year, not $54,000. That means
that for the average single mother in
America, because of the success of our
tax reform package, her Federal tax
burden is down to zero. That is not just
good news, that is great news. I know
it personally because of a single moth-
er who worked 16 hours a day trying to
keep food on the table. Having doubled
the child tax credit and having lowered
her taxes by doubling the standard de-
duction from $9,300 to $18,000, what we
see for the single mom is hope and a
light at the end of the tunnel that is
not a train. This is good news.
Not only is it good news, but some
have talked about our plan—we have
defaulted on our mission to help the
American people. I suggest that as op-
posed to defaulting on our mission,
what we heard from others is that they
are deflated because of the success of
our mission. During the previous ad-
ministration, GDP growth averaged
somewhere around 2 percent. In 2018,
we saw a 3.1-percent GDP growth. What
does that mean for the average person?
What it means for the average person
is that for the first time in a long time,
more than a decade, we saw their
wages grow over 3 percent. So not only
did their wages grow over 3 percent,
but, more importantly, they had more
jobs—actually, not just more jobs. This
is really good news. They had more
jobs. So many more jobs are open
today than people looking for work. In
other words, if you think about the
number of folks looking for work, the
number of openings exceeds that num-
ber. That is a transformation in this
country in a way we have very seldom
seen or experienced.
There is even more good news to
that. Our unemployment rate is down
to nearly a 50-year low, 3.8 percent. So
if we are asking ourselves what these
corporations did with the money, we
are seeing the evolution or the mani-
festation of what happened with these
extra resources by seeing the lowest
unemployment rate in 50 years. Now,
that is not just true for America as a
whole, it is true for the subgroups
within America who have been chal-
lenged and sometimes excluded from
the workforce. The African-American
unemployment rate is around 7 percent
over the last 2 years. You have to com-
pare that to, under the previous admin-
istration, an unemployment rate of
around 12 percent. The Hispanic unem-
ployment is near 5 percent. You have
to compare that to a 50-percent in-
crease under the previous administra-
tion.
We have seen perhaps the greatest
renaissance in our country, economi-
cally, than we have seen in 20 years,
and much of it is due to tax reform
being passed. Embedded in the tax re-
form package was my signature legis-
lation that I am so excited about, the
opportunity zones legislation, that is
having a transformative impact and ef-
fect throughout the poorest, most dis-
tressed communities in all of our coun-
try. Somewhere around 8,000 oppor-
tunity zones have been designated by
the Governors in collaboration with
the mayors. Mr. President, as a former
Governor, you understand better than
most of us the process by which one
went through in order to establish the
zones and the potential of those zones
in the most distressed communities in
each of the States.
There is good news. The good news is,
in places like my home State of South
Carolina, is a logistics company named
DHL that drives those little yellow
vans that ship some of your packages
across the country. They are investing
$100 million in a distribution and ware-
house park, creating nearly 500 jobs in
Dorchester County, and they have said
the Federal opportunity zone designa-
tion was a factor DHL weighed in mak-
ing this location decision.
In Washington State, the Vancouver
Downtown Redevelopment Authority
president said: ‘‘It’s an absolute no-
brainer, and a real gift from the federal
government and will give us a real shot
in the arm in these areas’’—these chal-
lenged, distressed communities.
In Vegas, the largest opportunity
zone expo in the Nation is being held
next month with some of the biggest
names across the country trying to fig-
ure out how they can reinvest their re-
sources in areas where they were un-
willing to take a second look, because
now the incentive is good enough, and
we did so without more bureaucrats
and without government money. These
are private-sector dollars being de-
ployed in some of the most distressed
communities.
In the Midwest, up to 3,000 jobs are
on the way to East Chicago, and a local
foundation is looking to invest $800
million in a solar farm in Flint, MI.
There are so many other States with
amazing projects that I would run out
of time talking about those.
I will close with two thoughts. One is
from Mayor Bowser of DC. She had a
March Madness event for opportunity
zones, and she attracted 400-plus folks
who are interested in investing and
seeing the results of the investments in
the local community here in DC.
For folks on the left and on the right,
African Americans, Hispanics, Whites,
Asians, this is a policy that brings
America together. Whether you live in
the most affluent communities or the
most distressed communities, Ameri-
cans are looking at opportunity zones
as a way to have a conversation with
each other. If there is one thing that
we all would agree upon, it is that
America needs to talk a little more
with each other in a civil way about
fairness and opportunity.
One of the reasons why I started my
national opportunity tour is to high-
light some of the successes—from
Miami, with my good friend MARCO
RUBIO, to Boston, New Hampshire, and
West Virginia, with Senator CAPITO, to
Iowa, with Senator ERNST, and Colo-
rado, Arizona, and so many other
places. I look forward to continuing
the conversation and distilling the ben-
efits of the opportunity zones over the
next few months.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I
am honored to be cochairing the Entre-
preneurship Caucus with the Senator
from South Carolina. He is right that
there are some great examples of peo-
ple who want to get businesses started
and who want to pursue their dreams,
and we need to highlight those because
we have a lot of people who right now
have some great new ideas. If we are
going to continue to be a country that
is an incubator for those ideas, then,
we have to promote those ideas and
allow those people to follow their
dreams.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.014 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2409
April 11, 2019
NOMINATION OF DAVID BERNHARDT
Mr. President, I am here today to
join many of my colleagues in dis-
cussing the nomination of David Bern-
hardt to be Secretary of the Depart-
ment of the Interior.
I have serious concerns about many
of the actions that Mr. Bernhardt has
taken while serving as both Deputy
Secretary of the Department, since
2017, and as Acting Secretary, since the
resignation of Secretary Zinke in Jan-
uary. Some of the most concerning ac-
tions include defending the administra-
tion’s budget request, which zeroed out
funding for the newly reauthorized
Land and Water Conservation Fund;
rolling back protections for public
lands, including proposals to reduce
the size of some of our national monu-
ments; limiting opportunities for pub-
lic input into Agency rulemakings; and
weakening enforcement of the Migra-
tory Bird Treaty Act.
These actions have threatened the re-
sponsible and sustainable management
of our public lands, imperiled laws de-
signed to protect and conserve wildlife,
and stacked the deck in favor of fossil
fuel industries.
One particular area that I would like
to focus on today is how Mr. Bernhardt
has played a role in the Department of
the Interior’s decisions to rescind
Obama-era climate and conservation
policies that directed Agency employ-
ees to minimize the environmental im-
pact of activities on Federal land. In a
secretarial order published just before
Christmas in 2017, which was signed by
Mr. Bernhardt, the Department limited
how its employees at sub-Agencies,
like the Bureau of Land Management,
can factor climate and environmental
effects into their decision making.
What does this mean, exactly? Well, it
means that manuals, handbooks, and
other lists of best practices that were
compiled by Agency employees over
the years—career Agency employees—
that were meant to minimize activities
that would harm species or accelerate
climate change were thrown out or
their instructions were rendered obso-
lete.
Mr. Bernhardt has not only
downplayed climate science and pre-
vented efforts to mitigate it within the
Department of the Interior, but he has
also advanced policy and rulemakings
that will accelerate its effect. We all
know what we are up against here with
climate change. We have seen the
weather events throughout the coun-
try—the heating of our ocean waters;
the increase in hurricanes; the pre-
dictions of how many metropolitan
areas are going to be experiencing sig-
nificant flooding in just the next few
decades; the wildfires that we have
seen in Arizona, Colorado, and Cali-
fornia; and the video of the dad in
Northern California driving his daugh-
ter through lapping wildfires, leaving
their house burning behind them as
they drove and he sang to her to calm
her down. Those are the big effects and
the little effects, but Americans know
this is happening.
So the question is not, Is it hap-
pening? We know it is because every
one of these things was predicted by
our scientists and was predicted by our
military. The question is, What do we
do about it? That is why I am so op-
posed to the administration’s decision
to get out of the international climate
change agreement, and I am opposed to
its decision to get us out of the Clean
Power rules that we had just started to
put forward and to implement, and why
I am opposed to the decision it made to
reverse the gas mileage standards.
Unfortunately, Mr. Bernhardt has
not only downplayed climate change,
but he has also helped, as I said, to ad-
vance policy that accelerates it. For
example, in September 2018, the Bureau
of Land Management announced a
draft rule that would relax the Obama-
era methane rules that regulated
flared, leaked, and vented natural gas
from oil and gas operations on Federal
and Tribal lands. Methane is an ex-
tremely potent greenhouse gas that ac-
cording to the United Nations Inter-
governmental Panel on Climate
Change has an impact that is 34 times
greater over a 100-year period than car-
bon dioxide. It is also important to re-
member that these proposed rescissions
to methane rules are in direct opposi-
tion and run counter to the Senate’s
vote in 2017 to reject an effort at full
repeal under the Congressional Review
Act. Instead of going backward, we
should be taking real action to combat
climate change. We need a comprehen-
sive approach to greenhouse gas emis-
sions, and we need energy efficient
technologies and homegrown energy re-
sources. I also believe, as I noted, that
we should reinstate the Clean Power
rules and the gas mileage standards.
Under Mr. Bernhardt’s leadership,
the Department of the Interior has
been taking us in the wrong direction
on climate, conservation, and public
lands. I will oppose his nomination.
NOMINATION OF DAVID STEVEN MORALES
Mr. President, before I conclude, I
wish to make brief remarks on the
nomination of David Morales to be a
Federal judge for the Southern District
of Texas, who was just confirmed yes-
terday evening. Yesterday the Senate
began its consideration on this nomi-
nation at 4 p.m. and voted on the con-
firmation around 6 p.m.
Under the new rules, we had just
about 2 hours of time on the Senate
floor to debate the nomination for a
lifetime appointment to the Federal ju-
diciary. I would have liked to have
made these comments before that
time. But with these severe limits, it is
very difficult for Senators, if they have
other obligations within the building
or constituent visits or hearings going
on, to be able to make it within the 2-
hour period that we are now allowed,
which is actually a 1-hour period.
There was much more to be con-
cerned about with respect to this nomi-
nee, which is why I am making these
comments now. To name one example,
during his time in the Texas Attorney
General’s Office, he has participated in
cases that have undermined American
voting rights. In 2007 he submitted an
amicus brief before the Supreme Court
in support of an Indiana voter ID law.
The brief argued that requiring voters
to have photo IDs was only ‘‘a neg-
ligible burden on the right to vote.’’
They should ask that of some of our
seniors in Minnesota who have voted
for decades and decades and decades
and are well-known by election offi-
cials and, in our State, are able to
show up at the voting booth and be
able to vote or maybe they don’t have
a driver’s license because they no
longer drive. These are examples that
go on across the United States. In
many States that have these restric-
tions, these people are literally turned
away from voting.
It is one of the reasons that the vot-
ers of my State turned away a proposal
that was on our ballot to have these re-
strictive photo-ID requirements. It
sounds good, but then when you really
look under the hood, you find that it
limits voting. It was especially dif-
ficult for people in our rural areas and
our seniors to accept this change, and
they didn’t.
We also know that voter ID laws
have a disproportionate impact on vot-
ers who are low income, racial and eth-
nic minorities, elderly, and people with
disabilities.
The nominee also defended Texas’s
ban on same-sex marriage. In 2010 he
signed on to a brief arguing that Texas
had a right to ban same-sex marriage.
The Supreme Court rejected similar ar-
guments in Obergefell v. Hodges, which
found that the Constitution guarantees
the right to marry for same-sex cou-
ples.
These issues are about how our de-
mocracy functions and about treating
people equally under the law and with
respect.
It is the Senate’s constitutional re-
sponsibility to give its advice and con-
sent on lifetime nominees to the Fed-
eral bench. These nominations are too
important to turn the Senate into a
mere rubberstamp. The Senate must
maintain its role as a meaningful
check and balance in our constitu-
tional system, and I join my colleagues
in expressing my deep concern about
the pace at which we are confirming
these nominees.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
S. 1116
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Thank you, Mr.
President. Today I rise to speak about
the legislation I introduced to the Sen-
ate this week, S. 1116, the BROWSER
ACT.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.016 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2410 April 11, 2019
Broadband or high-speed internet has
absolutely revolutionized the way we
communicate, the way we conduct
commerce, and actually the way we
participate in government.
Broadband is one of the greatest in-
novations in history. It allows near-in-
stantaneous exchange of information
and brings efficiencies to the daily life
of millions of Americans as they move
more of their transactional life online.
Thanks to broadband, entrepreneurs
have been able to bring thousands of
new applications to consumers. These
edge services are now an essential part
of our lives. We find ourselves every
day saying: I can’t imagine what we
did before we had this or before we had
that. These apps give consumers access
to entertainment, news, information,
helping us drive around town, and ac-
cess to emergency services.
As consumers use these applications,
they generate massive amounts of data
about themselves, and that is the prob-
lem. Many companies collect this data
and use it for a range of purposes with-
out the user’s knowledge.
They are collecting all of this—every
bill you pay, every website you visit,
these platforms are following you.
After all this information is shared,
the question is, Who owns the virtual
you? Who owns you and your presence
online? Our laws have not kept pace
with technological innovation.
Now we see some States and we even
have some cities that are adding more
complexity to the problem by enacting
their own privacy rules and standards,
despite the fact that digital commerce
is not restricted to one area. Digital
commerce is interstate and global in
nature.
It is time we have a consistent na-
tional law regarding online privacy. We
need one set of rules and one regulator
for the entire internet ecosystem. It
just makes sense.
That is why I have introduced the
legislation I previously proposed as a
Member of the House of Representa-
tives. As I said, it is called the BROWS-
ER Act. Americans want to be certain
their privacy is protected in the phys-
ical and the virtual space. Broadband
users—who are each and every one of
us—should have the right to say who
can or cannot access their private data.
Think about it. At this point, how
and when you pay your bills, the credit
cards you use, the sites you visit, the
merchandise you shop for, friends you
connect with, there is somebody track-
ing that activity with every move of
the mouse. They are on it.
Consumers should have the right to
clear and conspicuous notice of a serv-
ice providers’ privacy policies and the
ability to either opt in or opt out, de-
pending on the sensitive nature of that
data. The BROWSER Act requires dig-
ital services to provide users with clear
and conspicuous notice of their privacy
rights. It also requires digital services
to provide users the ability to opt in to
the collection of sensitive information
while also giving users the ability to
opt out of the collection of nonsen-
sitive information.
By allowing for a clear and con-
spicuous notification process, con-
sumers will be able to make a more
educated choice about the nature of
the relationship they want to have
with online vendors and with tech com-
panies.
Furthermore, the BROWSER Act will
prohibit digital services from denying
their service to users who refuse to
waive their personal privacy rights.
The BROWSER Act also empowers the
FTC, the Federal Trade Commission, to
enforce these rules using its unfair or
deceptive acts or practices authorities.
Now the Federal Trade Commission
has been our privacy regulator in both
the physical and the online space. Just
this week, Senator KLOBUCHAR and I
sent a letter to the FTC urging strong-
er action for bad actors in the tech
space. Companies like Facebook and
Google have transformed society in
revolutionary ways and need to recog-
nize that with that great power comes
great responsibility. This is the 21st
century; it is not the Wild West. These
tech companies need to be respectful of
your privacy rights.
My hope is that through this bipar-
tisan effort, we will shed light on the
need to protect competition and online
privacy to keep up with the fast-paced
changes in technology. The FTC has a
responsibility to hold tech companies
accountable for securing their plat-
forms. We need them to step up and be
the cop on the beat in the virtual
space.
Before I yield the floor, I want to
make one last point. The BROWSER
Act treats everyone in broadband and
edge companies exactly the same—one
regulator, one set of rules. This is com-
mon sense.
Unfortunately, yesterday, Democrats
in the House passed a bill to regulate
broadband service providers, but they
didn’t do anything to Big Tech. They
didn’t do anything about privacy with
Google, with Facebook, with Yahoo—
these people who collect your data and
sell it to the highest bidder; then that
person markets back to you.
When I chaired the Communications
and Technology Subcommittee in the
House, I repeatedly offered to work
with the other side of the aisle to pre-
serve a free and open internet. I am al-
ways happy to work together to find a
legislative solution and put this so-
called net neutrality issue to rest once
and for all. Rather than work together
on this, the House pushed through a
hyperpartisan bill to reinstate a con-
troversial, heavyhanded regulation of
communication companies, but—heav-
en forbid—they do not want to touch
Big Tech, their big buddies.
I am so grateful Leader MCCONNELL
has said that this bill coming from the
House is dead on arrival in the Senate.
I look forward to continuing to work
on this issue. But here is what my
friends across the aisle and my friends
over in the House need to realize: The
internet is not broken. The internet is
not broken. Many of you probably have
an electronic device close at hand. It is
working just fine. The internet does
not need the intervention of NANCY
PELOSI and House Democrats. It is fine.
It is going to be just fine by itself. In
fact, as an alternative, we could just
strike out the text of the House-passed
bill and insert the BROWSER Act in its
place—one set of rules for the entire
internet ecosystem, one set of rules en-
forced by one Federal regulator. That
is the BROWSER Act. It is about fair-
ness. It is about encouraging innova-
tion. It is about making certain we
keep a free and open internet.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
FISCHER). The majority leader.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the
postcloture time on the Bernhardt
nomination expire at 1:45 p.m. today. I
further ask that the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table and the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. PETERS. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VEHICLE INNOVATION ACT
Mr. PETERS. Madam President,
transportation is responsible for rough-
ly two-thirds of our national consump-
tion of petroleum and one of the larg-
est contributors to greenhouse gas
emissions. But imagine a future where
we could produce low-cost, secure clean
energy technologies to move people
and goods easily across our Nation.
Imagine if we could then sell our ad-
vanced American technology and prod-
ucts to the rest of the world.
Well, that is a future, by working to-
gether, we can indeed achieve. There is
no question that the cars and trucks of
the future can be equipped with tech-
nology to make them safer and more
fuel efficient while also saving con-
sumers money.
Rapidly emerging technology has the
potential not only to reduce air emis-
sions, but their development could also
create jobs in Michigan and across the
Nation, and these are jobs that cannot
be outsourced. We must ensure that
the United States leads the way in de-
veloping these innovations. That is
why I reintroduced the bipartisan Ve-
hicle Innovation Act with my col-
leagues Senator ALEXANDER and Sen-
ator STABENOW.
The Vehicle Innovation Act promotes
research and development investments
in clean vehicle and advanced safety
technologies. The bill also modernizes
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.018 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2411
April 11, 2019
the Vehicle Technologies Office within
the Department of Energy, which ex-
ists to help create and sustain Amer-
ican leadership in the transition to a
global clean energy economy.
This office’s leadership has already
led to improvements in engine effi-
ciency through vehicle weight reduc-
tions and reduced fuel production
costs, and the Vehicle Innovation Act
will help ensure that these continued
innovations move forward.
I am proud to again partner on this
bill with Senator ALEXANDER and fel-
low Michigander, Senator DEBBIE STA-
BENOW. In the last Congress, we were
able to pass the Vehicle Innovation Act
through the Senate. Now, with fellow
Michigan delegation Members, Con-
gresswomen DEBBIE DINGELL and
HALEY STEVENS, leading this bill in the
House, there is no reason this legisla-
tion should not be enacted into law.
The bill is supported by labor, by in-
dustry, and by conservation groups, in-
cluding the United Auto Workers, the
Motor & Equipment Manufacturers As-
sociation, the Auto Alliance, the
BlueGreen Alliance, and the Natural
Resources Defense Council.
America should lead the world in
clean energy advancements, and I urge
my colleagues to support the Vehicle
Innovation Act.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President,
while many folks in Washington, DC,
remain ambivalent about what is hap-
pening along the southern border, I am
here to report that we are reaching a
breaking point.
Every month, Customs and Border
Protection releases the total number of
people who attempt to cross the south-
ern border. The total includes those
who cross illegally between the ports of
entry, as well as those deemed inadmis-
sible at a port of entry. Just to give
you an idea of the size and scope of the
numbers we have been dealing with in
the past, since June 2014—the month
that President Obama referred to this
as a ‘‘humanitarian crisis’’—more than
66,000 individuals were encountered
along the border. At that time, we
thought 66,000 was a huge number, but
it pales in comparison to what we are
seeing now. Last month, more than
103,000 people attempted to illegally
cross the border. That is 103,000 up
from 76,000 the previous month.
A few weeks ago, I know we got into
a debate about what did and did not
constitute an emergency or a crisis at
the border. I don’t care whether you
call it a crisis or an emergency, but the
entire system is breaking, and it is
unsustainable. This is the highest num-
ber of people who has attempted to
enter the country that we have seen
since 2007.
The mind-boggling figure represents
the strain that is being felt by the per-
sonnel—those being U.S. Government
employees—whether they be Border
Patrol or Customs or whoever is trying
to manage the influx of the migrants.
The men and women of the CBP lack
both the manpower and the facilities to
appropriately respond. The already
understaffed Agency is reassigning per-
sonnel to try to make do, but 40 per-
cent of the Border Patrol’s manpower
is spent processing migrants and pro-
viding care and transportation, and
many of the agents are taken off their
patrol lines to do this work, which
leaves areas of the border vulnerable to
exploitation by drug cartels and oth-
ers.
The detention centers at which these
migrants are housed and processed are
relatively small facilities that are not
designed for these kinds of huge num-
bers. They were originally built to
house single adults for a short period of
time, but the skyrocketing number of
unaccompanied children and family
units is now putting a serious strain on
those resources. Last month alone,
there were more than 53,000 families
and nearly 9,000 unaccompanied chil-
dren who were apprehended at the bor-
der—53,000 families and 9,000 unaccom-
panied children. Customs and Border
Protection simply lacks the facilities
to hold these children, and it lacks the
personnel to provide appropriate care.
Do we really want the Border Patrol
handing out juice boxes and diapers as
opposed to interdicting dangerous
drugs and other contraband that come
into the United States? I don’t think
so. We know they are desperately ask-
ing for additional detention space and
staff to be able to manage the migrants
who are in custody.
Why is it so important they be de-
tained? It is because, if we engage in
the practice that has come to be known
as catch and release, then it is doubtful
we will ever see these migrants again,
even though they will be notified of
their time to appear in front of immi-
gration judges months—maybe even
years—into the future. They will sim-
ply melt into the landscape. If they
were to have bona fide reasons to claim
asylum but were to fail to appear for
their hearings in front of immigration
judges, they will have waived those
rights and be deported if they are ulti-
mately located in the United States.
We know customs inspectors have
been reassigned from their duties at
ports of entry to do things like process
migrants and provide transportation.
With fewer customs agents on the job,
you are now seeing lengthy delays at
the ports and checkpoints along the en-
tire border. In what is just right across
from El Paso, TX, truckers have been
reported as sleeping in their vehicles
for hours and sometimes days so they
will not lose their spots in line.
I have heard from some of the car
manufacturers that require there be a
flow of their supply chains into Mexico
and vice versa, so they are literally
hiring aircraft to fly from Juarez to El
Paso because that 11-minute flight is
faster than a trucker waiting 24 hours
in line. Also, when many of our car
manufacturers that depend on just-in-
time inventory can’t get their inven-
tory just in time but have to wait 24
hours, it disrupts their manufacturing
lines and endangers their businesses. Of
course, it is easy to see how this could
have a ripple effect on the entire bor-
der and the American economy.
This slowdown isn’t just affecting
businesses along the border; it has
businesses across the country worried.
Mexican products feed the supply chain
for many manufacturers in the United
States, and these slowdowns affect pro-
duction. While folks who live far away
from the border may have just chosen
to look the other way until now, they
don’t have a choice anymore. The sys-
tem is breaking.
The ripples will soon be felt across
the country unless Members of Con-
gress, on both sides of the aisle, work
together and are serious about enact-
ing a solution. We know what we need
to do, but politics is preventing us
from getting it done. It is time to pro-
vide our frontline officers and agents
with the personnel, the resources, and
the legal authorities they need in order
to do the jobs we have asked them to
do. Yet, without support from Con-
gress, we are sending them into a los-
ing battle, and we are setting our econ-
omy up for a disaster.
GEAR UP FOR SUCCESS ACT
Madam President, on another mat-
ter, when the Senate is in recess next
week, I, like most of our colleagues
here, will be running to my State to
talk to my constituents and to hope-
fully listen to what they have to say.
As I travel from El Paso to Laredo,
some of the things I will be talking
about will include the GEAR UP for
Success Act with students, teachers,
and school administrators. GEAR UP
seeks to increase college and career
readiness for underrepresented and
low-income students. It currently
serves about 600,000 students nation-
wide, and Texans have benefited from
the $885 million in GEAR UP grants
over the last 20 years.
I am glad I have had a chance to visit
with some of my constituents in San
Antonio and Harlingen about this bill
and the incredible impact that GEAR
UP grants have had on their students.
I guess I didn’t fully appreciate the
fact that students really have to begin
deciding in the seventh grade what
their courses of study will be because,
if they don’t take the required courses,
or the prerequisite courses, or the
other courses they are going to need in
order to graduate or to get into col-
lege, they may miss the boat entirely.
Many of these students come from fam-
ilies whose parents have never at-
tended college or who may be unaware
of the requirement to plan in order for
their children to make the right course
selections early on as opposed to their
waiting until their junior or senior
year to begin to think about where to
apply to college.
This legislation would allow school
districts to better cater to their stu-
dents’ specific needs rather than to use
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.019 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2412 April 11, 2019
a one-size-fits-all program, and it
would reduce the local cost share re-
quired by half.
I am eager to hear from my constitu-
ents in El Paso and Laredo and to talk
about what else we can do in Wash-
ington to promote college and career
readiness. In a tight labor market with
a booming economy, one of the things
we hear about the most back home is
the fact that employers can’t find ade-
quately trained workers for the jobs
that are available and return a good
wage. So it is important that we con-
tinue to do everything we can not only
to promote education generally but
also to promote career readiness for
many of the well-paying jobs that are
going wanting for the lack of qualified
workers.
JENNA QUINN LAW
Madam President, I will also take
some time to visit the Center for Child
Protection in Austin to discuss the
Jenna Quinn Law. This would author-
ize grants for training students, teach-
ers, and caregivers on identifying and
reporting child sexual abuse. The bill is
named for a courageous Texan and is
modeled after successful reforms in my
State. It is another great example of
how we are working to bring the suc-
cessful Texas model to the national
level.
B–21 STRATEGIC BOMBER
Madam President, finally, I will visit
Dyess Air Force Base in Abilene, TX,
with my friend and colleague, Con-
gressman JODEY ARRINGTON, for a brief-
ing on its latest operations and the re-
cent news from the Air Force that
Dyess will be receiving the B–21—the
next generation of strategic bombers.
Dyess is the most dynamic bomber
base in the country, and I am glad the
Air Force has chosen the future home
for the B–21 squadrons as well as weap-
ons instruction courses and test squad-
rons. It just makes a lot of sense.
I look forward to spending time at
home with my constituents. These con-
versations drive my work in the Sen-
ate, and I am eager to get more feed-
back on how these bills could make
positive changes in their lives and in
the lives of all of my constituents in
the State.
REMEMBERING LIEUTENANT COLONEL RICHARD
COLE
Madam President, on one final mat-
ter, this week, Texas lost a true hero.
Lt. Col. Richard Cole passed away on
Tuesday at the ripe old age of 103 in my
hometown of San Antonio.
For Texans and for so many Ameri-
cans, Lieutenant Colonel Cole—or
‘‘Dick’’ as his friends and brothers in
arms called him—symbolized one of the
most remarkable groups from the
greatest generation in World War II—
the Doolittle Raiders. The group is
named for then-Lt. Col. Jimmy Doo-
little, who, in April of 1942, fearlessly
led 16 B–25 bombers and 80 crew mem-
bers on a strike that targeted factories
and military installations in and
around Tokyo. This was actually
Dick’s first mission, and he was Jimmy
Doolittle’s copilot.
After the attack by the Japanese on
Pearl Harbor, this mission was not just
of tactical importance—it was a major
morale boost for our Nation.
Air Force Chief of Staff David
Goldfein recently said:
Those 80 intrepid airmen changed the
course of history. They executed a one-way
mission without hesitation and against enor-
mous odds.
The mission was, as you might imag-
ine, perilous. Doolittle’s Raiders took
off from the USS Hornet with barely
enough runway to get airborne. In fact,
Doolittle and Cole’s aircraft only had
467 feet with which to take off in an
aircraft that was not designed to
launch from an aircraft carrier. The
airplanes inadvertently took off 170
miles further from Japan than they
had planned, so they had insufficient
fuel to make it to their landing fields
in China.
As a result, Dick—then 26 and having
had limited experience in jumping out
of an aircraft—had to leap out of his B–
25 into unknown territory. He later re-
ported that he gave himself a black eye
when he pulled the ripcord and finally
landed in the branches of a tree, where
he spent the night, dangling.
He later said:
They don’t give a Purple Heart for self-in-
flicted injuries. I gave myself a black eye.
Yet his heroism was certainly re-
warded. He received the Distinguished
Flying Cross for his role in the bomb-
ing as well as the Bronze Star and the
Air Medal. Then, in 2015, Dick and his
fellow Raiders received the Congres-
sional Gold Medal.
These men, as you might imagine,
shared an incredible bond, and their
lasting camaraderie was evident
through one special tradition they
shared. At each reunion, the crew
would share a cognac in silver goblets.
Each goblet was engraved with a Raid-
er’s name both right-side up and right-
side down. After toasting to the men
who had died since their last reunion,
they would flip over the goblets of
those who had passed away.
At their final reunion in 2013, only
four Raiders were left. After deter-
mining that this would be the final re-
union due to their ages and travel limi-
tations, Dick delivered the last toast.
Now his silver goblet will be turned
over just as it was for the 79 brothers
who left this Earth before him.
We remember the final Doolittle
Raider today for his incredible courage
and sacrifice and a life well lived.
America has lost another hero, but our
country will never forget him.
I send my condolences to Dick’s fam-
ily and friends and especially to Rich,
his son, and to Cindy, his daughter.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MARKEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF DAVID BERNHARDT
Mr. MARKEY. Madam President, I
rise today to address the Senate on the
nomination of David Bernhardt to head
the Department of the Interior.
I ask unanimous consent that I may
use this chart in order to further my
goal of making it clear why he should
not be nominated and confirmed as
Secretary of the Interior.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MARKEY. Madam President,
under Secretary Bernhardt, the De-
partment of the Interior will come to
stand for the Department of Oil Inter-
ests, DOI.
This wheel of Bernhardt’s giveaways
makes it very clear what the objective
of his tenure as the Secretary of Inte-
rior will, in fact, entail.
Bernhardt’s nomination is just a con-
tinuation of the Trump administra-
tion’s cartel Cabinet. Only a month
ago, a former coal lobbyist was con-
firmed to head the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency. Let me say that again.
Just last month, a coal lobbyist was
nominated and confirmed to be the
head of the Environmental Protection
Agency of the United States—unbeliev-
able. But now Republicans want to in-
stall a former oil lobbyist to head the
Department of the Interior because, in
Trump’s administration, it is nothing
but foxes guarding the henhouse.
We need more answers about Mr.
Bernhardt’s lobbying activities. We
need answers on whether Mr. Bern-
hardt used his position at the Depart-
ment of the Interior to help former cli-
ents. The American people need to see
the documents associated with Bern-
hardt’s lobbying activities. Most im-
portantly, we should not confirm a
former oil lobbyist to lead the very
Agency that is tasked with protecting
our public lands from despoliation.
Let me now point to the wheel of
giveaways for more oil—more oil. And
that is the goal of his appointment.
The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge
is one of our national treasures that is
under threat from Big Oil and the
Trump administration. This is the
wildest place left in America, and it
should not be turned into a drilling
playground. Yet Republicans here in
the Senate voted in 2017 to hand this
special place—the Arctic Refuge—over
to Big Oil. Now this administration is
trying to hit the gas on drilling there,
in one of the Earth’s most pristine wil-
derness areas.
Last year, Mr. Bernhardt said that he
would ‘‘expedite’’ oil development in
the wildlife refuge, and he has worked
inside the Department of the Interior
to limit environmental review of drill-
ing activities. So let’s just imagine
gushing oil poisoning the habitat of
magnificent creatures like polar bears
and caribou, snowy owls and the Arctic
fox; rigs and pumps threatening the an-
cestral homeland of the Gwich’in and
Inupiat peoples, which they call ‘‘the
sacred place where life begins.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.020 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2413
April 11, 2019
I have spent my career protecting the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge for fu-
ture generations, and today I will not
support the nomination of David Bern-
hardt to undermine the protections we
have worked so hard to put in place.
We must stand up for the generations
yet to come that cannot yet speak to
protect our public lands and our
oceans.
At the same time, the Trump admin-
istration is trying to roll back the fuel
economy standards for the vehicles we
drive. In other words, since we put 70
percent of all the oil we consume in our
country on a yearly basis into the gas-
oline tanks of the vehicles we drive in
our country, if you increase the fuel
economy of every one of those vehicles,
it will reduce the amount of oil you
need to drill for.
What do the Republicans want to do?
What do the oil companies want? What
do the Koch brothers want? What does
ExxonMobil want? Well, it is very sim-
ple. By not increasing the fuel econ-
omy standards of the vehicles we drive,
we need more oil because cars will con-
sume more in the course of a year.
They then say: Ah, let’s turn to the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge—a sa-
cred place—and find more oil, because
the vehicles we drive won’t be that effi-
cient.
What kind of sacrifice are we going
to make in our country because the
Koch brothers and ExxonMobil want to
have more oil drilled for? We are going
to have the Trump administration say:
The only way we can justify it is if the
cars, the light trucks, the SUVs that
people drive are not that efficient;
therefore, we need all the oil we can
get, even though we are a technical
giant and we know we can make these
vehicles so much more efficient, so we
never have to drill there. That is a sin
against the environment and a sin
against our country and future genera-
tions that should be able to enjoy this
pristine area, the wildlife refuge.
Let’s move on to another part of the
wheel of giveaways—even more oil that
will be another giveaway during the
Bernhardt time at the Department of
the Interior.
On January 4, 2018, the Department
of the Interior announced a plan to re-
vise the offshore drilling plan to elimi-
nate protections for the east and west
coasts, the eastern Gulf of Mexico, and
the Arctic Ocean. The plan proposed to
open up more than 90 percent of the
U.S. coastlines to oil and gas leasing.
Since then, the bipartisan opposition
has been deafening. All Governors
along the east and west coasts have op-
posed or expressed concerns about ex-
panded oil and gas exploration off their
coasts. More than 340 municipalities
and over 2,100 elected local, State, and
Federal officials have formally opposed
offshore oil and gas drilling and seis-
mic airgun blasting in our ocean. But
David Bernhardt is not listening to
those concerns. Instead, he is listening
to his former fossil fuel clients. He is
moving ahead with this terrible off-
shore drilling plan that would threaten
State after State with the threat of a
spill in the ocean off of those States.
We should not confirm Bernhardt to
lead the Department of the Interior.
Handing the keys to the beaches of our
country, the coastlines of our country,
and our fishing and tourism industries
in our country over to Big Oil is not
what our citizens want. That is the op-
posite of what we need to do to protect
our environment, but that is what
David Bernhardt and his fossil fuel
friends want.
There is no reason that we have to
drill off of the coastlines of our coun-
try right where people who are swim-
ming will be watching these oil rigs
that are going to be drilling down into
those ocean areas off of our beaches to
find oil that we don’t need. If we in-
crease the fuel economy standards of
the vehicles we drive, we will be able to
back out the need for all of that addi-
tional oil. That is the sin against the
environment that is being committed.
That is the agenda of David Bern-
hardt’s at the Department of the Inte-
rior.
Instead of being the United States of
America—a technological giant that
invents its way to the new automotive
technologies that reduce the amount of
oil we need and reduces the amount of
greenhouse gasses that go up into the
atmosphere—with David Bernhardt as
the Secretary of the Interior, partnered
with the new coal lobbyist who is run-
ning the EPA, we are going to wind up
with more greenhouse gasses going up
into the air, a reduction in the effi-
ciency of the vehicles we drive, and
putting more profits into the pockets
of the Koch brothers and ExxonMobil
and the auto industry, which also
wants to reduce the fuel economy
standards of the vehicles we drive. This
is a sin against our environment but
also our identity as the technological
giant of the planet.
We can do this. We can make our cars
more efficient. We can have plug-in hy-
brids. We can have all-electric vehicles.
We can create a revolution that avoids
the necessity of drilling off of our
beaches and drilling in the Arctic Wild-
life Refuge. We can do this, but that is
not what Donald Trump wants. He
wants fossil fuel industry representa-
tives at the Department of the Interior
and EPA running these Agencies.
David Bernhardt’s ties to Big Oil—
the very industry he is tasked with
regulating—are as deep as an oil well.
Those ties should be disqualifying for
anyone nominated to head the Depart-
ment of the Interior. We need to stop
the pollution of our democracy by Big
Oil interests.
I urge my colleagues to vote no on
the nomination of David Bernhardt. I
ask my colleagues to consider what we
can do to avoid the necessity of de-
spoiling these sacred environmental lo-
cations in our country for the oil in-
dustry, for the Koch brothers.
This is a big moment, this vote we
are about to cast. This is one more step
by Donald Trump that will result in far
more greenhouse gases going up into
the atmosphere, far more danger being
presented to places that should be put
off limits to the oil industry because of
the risk of environmental danger that
would result from that permission to
drill.
That is why we should all pause and
really consider whether we want to go
deeper and deeper into an era that is
completely avoidable if we unleash the
technological might of our country.
When President Kennedy went to
Rice University in 1961, what he said
was that we were going to have a mis-
sion to the Moon and that mission
would require us to invent new metals,
new alloys, new propulsion systems
that did not exist, and that within 10
years, we would have to then bring
that mission back safely from the
Moon through heat half the intensity
of the Sun and do so successfully.
Auto mechanics is not rocket
science. We already know how to im-
prove the fuel economy standards of
the vehicles we drive. We don’t need
nuclear physics and we don’t need aero-
nautical engineers to help us do this.
President Kennedy challenged our
country, and we responded. President
Trump is like J.F.K. in reverse. He is
saying that we can’t do it; that, in-
stead, what we have to do is, here on
Earth, be the leaders in spoiling our
most sacred environmental locations.
That is why today is such a monu-
mental opportunity for the Senate to
say no on a bipartisan basis to David
Bernhardt, who is someone who does
not deserve the post of Secretary of the
Interior.
I once again urge a ‘‘no’’ vote from
all of my colleagues.
I yield the floor.
Madam President, I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF DAVID BERNHARDT
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President,
I am pleased to be here today to speak
in strong support of David Bernhardt’s
nomination to be Secretary of the Inte-
rior, and I thank all of my colleagues
on the Energy and Natural Resources
Committee. We worked pretty hard to-
gether to report Mr. Bernhardt’s nomi-
nation last week. We moved it out with
good bipartisan support. I also thank
the majority leader for filing cloture
this week so that we can confirm him
before we depart for this 2-week work
period.
I have several reasons—I have a
whole host of different reasons to out-
line as to why I support Mr. Bern-
hardt’s nomination. I outlined them
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.023 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2414 April 11, 2019
before the committee, but I would like
to take a couple of minutes here this
afternoon to reiterate them on the
Senate floor.
First, really, is his background. He
understands and is in touch with our
public lands. Mr. Bernhardt is from the
West where, of course, the vast major-
ity of our public lands are located. He
grew up in Rifle, which is a small town
in Western Colorado. He spent a lot of
his summers in Wyoming. He, to this
day, remains an avid sportsman and
outdoorsman. He likes hunting and
fishing. He is a guy who appreciates
the outdoors.
He is really almost unparalleled in
terms of the experience that he brings
to the job. He has worked at the De-
partment of the Interior now for about
10 years, including two Senate-con-
firmed posts. Back in 2006, we con-
firmed him as Solicitor by voice vote,
and then in 2017, we confirmed him to
be the Deputy Secretary. Again, that
vote was a good bipartisan vote. He has
now served as Acting Secretary since
January of 2019, so we have a situation
where, simply put, he has more experi-
ence at the Department than any other
previous nominee for Secretary, except
one. That is a pretty good credential
there.
Of equal importance, Mr. Bernhardt
has the right perspective to be the Sec-
retary of the Interior. He understands
how Federal land management deci-
sions affect our local communities. He
has seen how Federal policies impact
people’s access to and use of public
land, and he also recognizes the need to
balance conservation and opportunities
for economic development.
I think David Bernhardt has really
proved his ability to lead the Depart-
ment. He is well qualified. He is highly
competent. He has built strong work-
ing relationships with those who are
affected by the Department’s decisions.
I really think there is no question that
he is ready for the job. He can handle
everything it entails.
I have been asked by several of the
reporters who are out there: What do
you think David Bernhardt really
brings to the table? What I have shared
with them is that as I have gotten to
know David Bernhardt in his various
capacities at Interior, he is a guy who
understands and enjoys the policy of
these issues. He likes to get down into
the fine details. He knows the back-
ground. He is not just being given
something by staff to read. He is the
one who is really engaged in under-
standing at a level of detail that is
greatly appreciated.
When I think about the importance
of this position of Secretary of the In-
terior, I come at it from the perspec-
tive of an Alaskan coming from a State
that has more Federal acres than any
other State. The Department of the In-
terior controls most of those. We often
refer to the Department, and the Sec-
retary specifically, as our landlord.
That is not necessarily a title we like.
We like to consider ourselves a partner,
but I think we truly recognize we need
leadership to understand and appre-
ciate the impact their decisions within
the Department of the Interior can
have on us. I know David Bernhardt
understands that. He has been a good
partner for Alaskans, but he has also
been a good partner for individuals,
groups, and States all across the coun-
try, and that is why his nomination is
supported by a wide range of stake-
holder groups from the Alaska Federa-
tion of Natives to Ducks Unlimited,
the Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation,
and the Association of Fish and Wild-
life Agencies.
I think it is also important to note
that Mr. Bernhardt moved through our
committee process in pretty good
order. He answered all of our questions.
Again, he demonstrated the depth of
his understanding of the issues and his
expertise. He really exceeded expecta-
tions, which led to a very strong bipar-
tisan vote of 14 to 6 at the business
meeting last week.
Now the full Senate has the oppor-
tunity to confirm Mr. Bernhardt. Some
will continue to make allegations over
ethics, but the fact is, as we have re-
viewed those charges, we have found
nothing that should hold him back. I
know this has been a subject of discus-
sion on the Senate floor, so I want to
lay it out very clearly. There are some
news stories that are being printed and
have been printed that are filled with
old information that has already been
reviewed by our committee staff. New
stories, old facts—they don’t contain
anything new or anything disquali-
fying. There is nothing amiss here, and
there is no valid reason to delay this
process.
The Office of Government Ethics has
certified that Mr. Bernhardt is in good
standing; so has Interior’s Designated
Agency Ethics Official. My committee
staff has contacted Interior’s Inspector
General. It has been confirmed that
there are no open investigations into
Mr. Bernhardt. I would tell folks that
what needs to happen here is that we
need to move forward. We need to re-
ject the last-minute rhetoric that is de-
signed to delay. We need to confirm a
well-qualified candidate to be our next
Secretary of the Interior.
We have a lot to do. Interior has a lot
to do to make sure that we are pro-
tecting our lands, increasing our en-
ergy security, as well as fulfilling all of
the missions of the Department, and
the sooner we are able to confirm a
Secretary to focus on them, the better.
Mr. Bernhardt is very well qualified
to be the Secretary of the Interior. He
has the right background, the right ex-
perience, and the right perspective for
the job. He is ready to lead on a perma-
nent basis, and I am glad that very
shortly here we are going to be consid-
ering his nomination. I strongly en-
courage every Member in this Chamber
to support his confirmation.
Madam President, I come to the floor
to speak to the robust support that
David Bernhardt has received for his
nomination to be Secretary of the Inte-
rior.
Last week, those of us on the Energy
and Natural Resources Committee re-
ported Mr. Bernhardt on a strong, bi-
partisan vote of 14 to 6. He has actually
added support from the last time that
he was considered in committee, in
2017, and I hope we will see that again
when we vote on his nomination later
today.
Mr. Bernhardt’s support is not lim-
ited to the Senate. For example, the
Congressional Western Caucus is sol-
idly behind Mr. Bernhardt, with many
of its members on record in support of
his nomination.
Bear in mind, these are members
from Western States, where the vast
majority of our public lands are lo-
cated, whose districts are most im-
pacted by the Department of the Inte-
rior. It is a very good sign that Mr.
Bernhardt has drawn their strong sup-
port.
We have also kept a list of individ-
uals and groups who have submitted
letters of support for Mr. Bernhardt. It
spans the spectrum of stakeholders,
from the Public Lands Council and the
Colorado Farm Bureau to the Amer-
ican Exploration and Mining Associa-
tion and the Corps Network.
Multiple recreation groups have writ-
ten in urging the Senate to confirm
Mr. Bernhardt. The motorized recre-
ation groups, like the American Coun-
cil of Snowmobile Associations and the
Off-Road Business Association, wrote
that, ‘‘At a time when many of the sen-
ior posts at the agency lack Senate
confirmed executives, a person of Mr.
Bernhardt’s experience is sorely need
. . . having [him] at the helm of the In-
terior Department will strengthen the
agency’s resolve to make the lands it
manages accessible to the recreating
public.’’
Officials at all levels of government
are voicing their support for Mr. Bern-
hardt’s nomination. The Governor of
Wyoming, Mark Gordon, offered this
statement: [Mr. Bernhardt’s] recogni-
tion of expertise in the States is re-
freshing . . . I wish [him] a speedy and
easy confirmation process.’’
The Mesa County Commissioners in
Colorado wrote that ‘‘Mr. Bernhardt’s
extensive knowledge of public lands
and energy issues makes him an avid
leader with skill to see issues from
multiple perspectives to maintain and
improve partnerships among federal,
state, and local governments.’’
The Harney County Court in Oregon
has highlighted Mr. Bernhardt’s com-
mitment to balancing the multiple use
of public land, writing that, ‘‘[He] has
proved himself in the past by exhib-
iting understanding between the bal-
ance that is needed from an ecological
standpoint, but also, what is needed
from the economic and social aspect of
public land use. He will work towards a
balanced approach by trying to assess
and distinguish between the multiple
issues that we are facing with the [bu-
reaus].’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.026 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2415
April 11, 2019
Tribal groups and entities are also
supportive of his nomination. In my
home State, the Alaska Federation of
Natives noted that, ‘‘Mr. Bernhardt has
demonstrated a thorough under-
standing of the legal frameworks of the
major laws covering Alaska Native
subsistence customary and traditional
rights and protections . . . he listens
well, is articulate in his responses, and
draws reasonable conclusions.’’
The Chairman of the Southern Ute
Indian Tribal Council wrote in that,
‘‘the [Tribe] has worked with [Mr.
Bernhardt] previously and firmly be-
lieves that his knowledge and experi-
ence make him a very good fit for the
Department . . . we also believe he is
committed to building strong working
relationships that rely on good faith
and respect among all interests at the
table.’’
We have truly heard from a very wide
range of organizations in support of
this nomination. The Archery Trade
Association wrote to us that ‘‘[Mr.
Bernhardt] has demonstrated tremen-
dous commitment to conserving and
protecting our nation’s natural, his-
toric and cultural resources . . . [his]
experience with the Department of the
Interior coupled [with his] exemplary
history of collaboration, non-partisan
views, highly respected demeanor and
deeply held passion for conservation
and historic preservation make him
uniquely qualified for this position.’’
One of the reasons that such a di-
verse group of stakeholders support
Mr. Bernhardt’s nomination is that
they have worked with him during his
nearly ten years at Interior, including
most recently as Deputy Secretary and
then Acting Secretary. He has proven
that he can work with groups, he has
formed strong relationships with them,
and they respect and support him.
For example, the Gila River Indian
Community wrote that, ‘‘based on our
experience in negotiating and working
on complex issues with Mr. Bernhardt
we support his position as Secretary of
the Department of the Interior. We be-
lieve he has an understanding of Tribal
sovereignty and the United States’
trust responsibility to Tribal nations.’’
The Corps Network wrote that ‘‘Mr.
Bernhardt has been accessible and re-
sponsive to our inquiries, visited sev-
eral Corps in the field, and joined the
Corps Network’s Day of Service last
summer.’’
These groups are reiterating what we
already know—that Mr. Bernhardt’s
experience at Interior and in the West;
his willingness to listen, build relation-
ships, be responsive; and his ability to
earn people’s trust make him more
than qualified to lead the Department
of the Interior.
I want to wrap up by reading an ex-
cerpt from a letter that we received
from the Beaver County Commission in
Utah: ‘‘In our interactions with Mr.
Bernhardt we have found him to act
with integrity, be open minded to all
points of view, and have a contagious
passion for the health of our Nation’s
lands and people. These qualities, com-
bined with many others, make Mr.
Bernhardt an ideal candidate to serve
the county by leading the Department
of the Interior.’’
I couldn’t say it any better. Mr.
Bernhardt knows the Department and
the laws that govern it inside and out.
He appreciates and respects the De-
partment’s mission. He is the right per-
son for the job—the best person to lead
Interior—and I look forward to his con-
firmation.
REMEMBERING SELINA EVERSON
Madam President, before I relinquish
my time, I just want to take a very
brief moment to note that a friend, a
leader, an extraordinary role model for
many Alaskans—certainly in the Alas-
ka Native community—has recently
passed.
Selina Everson was a language and
culture warrior in Southeastern Alaska
and one who fought for the Tlingit lan-
guage and culture preservation. She
was an extraordinary woman and role
model. She grew up speaking Tlingit. It
was her first language. In school, she
was told: You can only speak English.
She broke that rule and courageously
spoke Tlingit anyway. She was a cham-
pion for her culture.
We mourn her passing. This woman
not only was considered Grandma
Selina and considered by hundreds of
children in schools in Southeastern
Alaska as a friend and a relative, I con-
sidered her one as well. I was honored
that she was the one who helped adopt
me into the Deisheetaan clan and gave
me the honor and treasured name of
Aan shaawatk’i, Lady of the Land. So
know that I send my prayers to
Selina’s family as they face this loss.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). The assistant Democratic leader.
TRIBUTE TO MJ KENNY
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I come
to the floor this afternoon to honor a
member of my staff. I thank Senator
FISCHER and Senator MANCHIN for giv-
ing me an opportunity to speak at this
moment.
MJ Kenny has been part of my team
in the Senate for 9 years, and for the
past several years, he was a constant
on the floor of the Senate as deputy
floor director of my staff. At the end of
this week, he is going to be moving on
to a new professional opportunity.
Unlike many of us who work in this
building, MJ actually is a resident of
the Washington, DC, area. He grad-
uated from Walt Whitman High School
in Bethesda, MD, a suburb of the city
of Washington.
Walt Whitman wrote in his essay,
‘‘Democratic Vistas,’’ the following:
‘‘Did you too, O friend, suppose democ-
racy was only for elections, for poli-
tics, and for a party name?’’ Walt
Whitman understood that democracy is
more than campaigns. Democracy is
certainly more than just yelling at one
another. Democracy is a process. It is a
daily dedication to the institutions and
norms and the rule of law. Making de-
mocracy work takes skill and commit-
ment, and it takes many people who
are willing to make a sacrifice and see
the demands for long hours and the de-
mands for time on the floor as part of
their democratic commitment. This
can demand great patience and great
sacrifice. I think Walt Whitman would
have given MJ Kenny high marks, as
do I.
For the last few years, MJ has helped
to make sure the Senate does the daily
work of democracy. I have counted on
him to make sure that my interests
were represented on the floor of the
Senate, that my constituents in Illi-
nois had a voice in the Senate, and
that stories about Dreamers and other
important information be shared in the
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD with my col-
leagues and beyond. Making certain
that the information was floor-ready
was a responsibility of MJ Kenny, and
he handled it professionally.
MJ and my floor director, Reema
Dodin, are my dynamic duo who help
make things happen around here. To-
gether, they are my eyes and ears on
the floor when meetings and other obli-
gations take me away. MJ has also
been a big help to so many other Sen-
ators.
He came to my office 12 years ago for
an informational interview. We tried to
decide whether we were right for one
another. Luckily, I came to the conclu-
sion that this graduate of North-
western University in Chicago with a
degree in history, who had already in-
terned for then-Congressman and now
Senator CHRIS VAN HOLLEN, was a good
fit for my team and a good prospect to
help us move forward. I gave MJ Kenny
his opportunity, and I am sure glad I
did. He flourished.
In one year he moved from legisla-
tive correspondent to legislative aid to
becoming a key part of my floor team.
In every job he has done for me, MJ has
been a steady, reliable partner. Even in
difficult times, he works long hours
without complaint and with grit and
good humor.
In college, he studied history. In the
U.S. Senate and on this floor for the
last 9 years, he has not only witnessed
history, he has helped to shape it. I
couldn’t ask for more in a staff.
I suspect that some of what MJ
knows about patience and perseverance
he learned as a lifelong, long-suffering
Baltimore Orioles fan. It is like being a
Chicago Cubs fan. Among his treasured
possessions on his desk is a bobblehead
of Manny Machado, the former O’s
third baseman and Golden Glove win-
ner. Just as Manny Machado left the
O’s, MJ Kenny is leaving the Senate at
the end of this week. I want to wish
him continued success and thank him
again for being such an important part
of my team over the years.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, first of
all, I want to thank MJ also, on behalf
of Senator DURBIN. His staff does a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:39 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.004 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2416 April 11, 2019
great job, and we always enjoy working
with them. MJ, enjoy your new endeav-
or in life.
NOMINATION OF DAVID BERNHARDT
Mr. President, I rise today to speak
on the nomination of Mr. David Bern-
hardt to be the Secretary of the Inte-
rior. The Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources voted to report
David Bernhardt’s nomination to be
the Secretary of the Interior last week
by a vote 14 to 6. Members on both
sides held and continue to hold strong
feelings on Mr. Bernhardt’s nomina-
tion. Both sides have scrutinized his
record carefully, as we should, consid-
ering the enormous responsibility en-
trusted to the Secretary of the Inte-
rior.
Whether it be payments for miners
for their healthcare benefits, proc-
essing permits for the privilege of en-
ergy production on Federal lands, or
ensuring the U.S. Geological Survey
can conduct its critical work of col-
lecting and analyzing data on our
changing climate, the Department of
the Interior has a huge amount of re-
sponsibility and diverse jurisdiction.
Furthermore, the Secretary of the In-
terior is the guardian of our Nation’s
greatest natural resources.
The Department of the Interior man-
ages nearly half a billion acres of Fed-
eral land, or about 20 percent of the
Nation’s land. One of every 5 acres in
the United States is under their con-
trol. These lands include some of our
most special places—our national
parks, trails, seashores, and historic
sites. In addition, the Department
manages another 1.7 billion acres of
submerged land on the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf.
The Department of the Interior is
also the largest supplier of water in the
17 Western States. It manages nearly
500 dams and over 300 reservoirs that
supply water to over 31 million people
and irrigate 10 million acres of farm-
land.
Furthermore, nearly 20 percent of en-
ergy we use is produced on lands man-
aged by the Secretary. These include
not just coal and oil and natural gas
but also hydropower, geothermal,
solar, and wind energy. In addition, the
Secretary of the Interior manages our
trust obligations to nearly 600 federally
recognized Indian Tribes and provides
services to nearly 2 million Native
Americans.
By any measure, the job of Secretary
of the Interior is an enormous and spe-
cial responsibility.
As a former Governor, I have always
believed that an executive is entitled
to deference when selecting his or her
team, as long as the candidates are
qualified and ethical. I have carefully
reviewed Mr. Bernhardt’s experience
and his qualifications. I met with him
twice before his hearing and spoke with
him again by phone afterwards. I ques-
tioned him extensively about his will-
ingness to be a good steward of our Na-
tion’s greatest natural treasures—our
national parks, monuments, and his-
torical sites. I questioned him about
his responsibility to balance our re-
source needs with environmental pro-
tection and fairness to the owners of
our public lands, which are all of us,
the American people. I spoke to him
about the need to make sure that those
who are granted the privilege of using
our public lands leave them in better
condition than they found them.
Based on my extensive discussion
with him and my review of his record,
I believe Mr. Bernhardt is clearly
qualified to serve as Secretary. He held
senior positions in the Department for
8 years during the Bush administra-
tion, including over 2 years as the So-
licitor, which is the third highest office
in the Department. He has served as
the Deputy Secretary for the past 2
years and as Acting Secretary since
January. He knows the Interior De-
partment inside and out, and he is
well-versed on all of the issues that
come before it. He clearly has the
knowledge and experience to serve as
Secretary.
Now, the opposition to Mr. Bern-
hardt’s nomination comes not from
any lack of knowledge or experience
but from questions about appearances
of conflicts of interest arising from his
law practice prior to being confirmed
as Deputy Secretary. I had extensive
conversations with Mr. Bernhardt
about these potential conflicts of inter-
est and his compliance with ethics laws
and regulations. I reminded him that
he takes the same oath I take—public
service, not self-service. We also spoke
about the importance of ensuring a cul-
ture at the Department of the Interior
that reflects the highest level of eth-
ical compliance and integrity.
Based on my extensive discussion
with Mr. Bernhardt and the assurances
he gave me, I voted for him in the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources last week, and I will support
his nomination when we vote on the
floor to confirm him.
But I said before the vote in the En-
ergy and Natural Resources Com-
mittee—and I will say it again—that I
expect him and the Department to hold
itself to the highest ethical standards
because I assured him I will. Mr. Bern-
hardt must work to ensure the com-
mitment to ethical and scientific in-
tegrity, and I intend to work with him
and his staff persistently to ensure this
is the case.
Our parks and public lands, our sce-
nic beauty, and our fish and wildlife re-
sources are important to everybody
and especially to the people of West
Virginia, which I represent, and to the
people of all of our States and to the
Nation’s outdoor recreation economy.
West Virginians count on the Sec-
retary of the Interior as the guardian
of our public lands, as I know you do,
Mr. President, in Louisiana.
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources, which I am privileged
to serve on as ranking member, has a
lot of work to do. We have to address
the park maintenance backlog. We
have to fully fund the Land and Water
Conservation Fund, ensure that compa-
nies granted the privilege of developing
public energy and mineral resources
pay the royalties they owe the tax-
payers and nothing less, and see that
our public lands and resources are
wisely managed and protected.
I intend to work with Mr. Bernhardt
on these important issues. I have made
it clear to him that I expect him to put
his extensive experience and knowledge
of these issues to work for all the
American people and to execute his re-
sponsibilities in a manner that ensures
that our public lands are not just being
maintained but improved for the ben-
efit of generations to come.
For that reason, I will vote to con-
firm him to this important position,
and I ask your consideration for the
same.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
ICBMS
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, re-
cently I came to the Senate floor to
speak about the airborne leg of the nu-
clear triad. Today I rise to discuss the
value of another leg of the triad—our
intercontinental ballistic missiles, or
ICBMs.
Following the brief deployment of
the Atlas and Titan ICBM weapon sys-
tems in the early 1960s, the United
States deployed the first Minuteman
ICBMs in support of the strategic de-
terrence mission. Over half a century
later, today the United States deploys
400 Minuteman III ICBMs, each car-
rying a single warhead. While the Min-
uteman III system was deployed in the
1970s, much of its technology dates to
the previous decade. The system was
originally designed for a 10-year serv-
ice life but has sustained an exception-
ally high availability rate and is ex-
pected to remain in service through the
2030s, thanks to a series of life-exten-
sion programs. But we cannot extend
the current system beyond 2030, and
that is why we are now developing its
replacement—the ground based stra-
tegic deterrent. Doing so will require
resources in a budget-constrained envi-
ronment and, perhaps for that reason,
we are hearing renewed calls to aban-
don the triad and cut our ICBM force.
However, this step would be foolish and
dangerous to the United States and to
our allied security for several reasons.
First, ICBMs are highly reliable and
always ready. That is why they are re-
garded as the most responsive leg of
the triad. Unlike bombers and sub-
marines, which may require time to
arm or maneuver, the ICBM force pro-
vides the President the ability to
promptly respond if deterrence fails.
This virtue is often mischaracterized
as a source of risk.
The system’s rapid response is de-
scribed as a ‘‘hair trigger’’ by critics
who often paint chilling pictures of 400
ICBMs automatically flying to their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.027 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2417
April 11, 2019
targets and causing Armageddon, ei-
ther by accident or as a result of cyber
interference.
I want to be clear that there is no
‘‘hair trigger’’ about our ICBMs. We
have many safeguards put in place to
ensure the system operates only as in-
tended. For example, our ICBMs are ac-
tually targeted on the open-ocean
spaces as a means of ensuring that,
even if all of our safeguards failed and
a missile somehow managed to launch
by accident, it would land in the ocean
and not accidentally start a nuclear
war. The critics conveniently fail to
mention this.
Former STRATCOM commander
General Robert Kehler recently testi-
fied before the Senate Armed Services
Committee, and he said: ‘‘It isn’t the
same thing at all as thinking about a
Wild West hair trigger . . . . It’s not
the way it works.’’
The high readiness of the ICBM force
also provides an important hedge
against uncertainty. Since we no
longer maintain bombers on nuclear
alert, the ICBMs and the submarines
reinforce each other so that a technical
failure in one leg of the triad does not
render our day-to-day deterrent inoper-
ative.
Those who advocate for doing away
with the ICBM force must account for
the fact that, under their proposals, in
such moments there would not have
been an additional leg of the triad to
ensure our Nation isn’t left without a
nuclear deterrent. As our nuclear
forces continue to age, reliability chal-
lenges will only grow.
Critics often describe the ICBM force
as being vulnerable, even going so far
as to call our missiles sitting ducks. It
is true that silos are not hidden, they
aren’t mobile, and they can be tar-
geted. But, again, this is a misunder-
standing of what actually is the
strength of the ICBM force.
In his testimony before the Senate
Armed Services Committee, General
Hyten stated that the ICBM force ‘‘cre-
ates the most significant targeting
problem for an adversary, because
there are 400 separate targets across
the United States. All would have to be
independently targeted by an adver-
sary. That targeting problem is hugely
problematic and creates a significant
advantage for us.’’
Simply put, destroying 400 hardened
and geographically dispersed silos is an
extremely difficult proposition. Only
Russia possesses the capability to de-
stroy our ICBM force. No other nation
on Earth can do so, and it would great-
ly diminish Russia’s arsenal in the
process. That is not a vulnerability. As
General Hyten clearly states, it is a
significant advantage for our Nation.
For these reasons and many others,
Republican and Democratic adminis-
trations alike have maintained ICBMs
as part of our nuclear forces for dec-
ades. The role of ICBMs has been recon-
sidered and reviewed many times, and
their value has been repeatedly re-
affirmed in a bipartisan manner. For
example, last November the report by
the bipartisan National Defense Strat-
egy Commission stated that the triad
presents insurmountable targeting
challenges for adversaries, imposes dis-
proportionate costs on adversary de-
fenses, and hedges against unforeseen
geopolitical or technological changes.
Mr. President, I will close by saying
that our ICBM forces make key con-
tributions to our overall nuclear forces
and, as Members on both sides of the
aisle agree, they are an essential ingre-
dient to the bedrock of our national se-
curity—our nuclear deterrent.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Florida.
VENEZUELA
Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Good after-
noon. The crisis in Venezuela is a crisis
in America. Senator RUBIO, Congress-
man DIAZ-BALART, and I have been
talking about this for years and
worked with the White House on a
comprehensive strategy. More than
200,000 Venezuelans live in Florida, and
their concerns are our concerns.
Make no mistake—this is a crisis. It
is a humanitarian crisis that threatens
the lives of the people of Venezuela and
has created a flood of refugees num-
bering in the millions. It is also a crisis
that threatens the safety and security
of our allies in Latin America and in
the United States of America.
The dictatorship of Nicolas Maduro
and the creeping influence and mili-
tary presence of our global adversaries
represent a clear and present danger to
the entire Western Hemisphere. There
are some who will say that this is not
our fight, that the millions of Ven-
ezuelans suffering 2,000 miles away are
not our concern. Some have criticized
the mere mention of the crisis in Ven-
ezuela by those like myself as Amer-
ican imperialism or a U.S.-backed
coup. I reject that. This is our fight.
Freedom and democracy in Latin
America is our fight. I remind these
critics that the only thing necessary
for the triumph of evil is for good peo-
ple to do nothing. We cannot let evil
triumph in Venezuela. It would be a
failure of leadership with disastrous
consequences.
There is only one option left to get
aid to the people of Venezuela. It is
something that no one is willing to
talk about. It is becoming clear that
we will have to consider the use of
American military assets to deliver
aid. Maduro and his thugs have left us
no choice.
I applaud President Trump and his
administration for taking bold action
by recognizing Juan Guaido as the le-
gitimate President of Venezuela and
organizing the international commu-
nity to do the same. The sanctions im-
plemented by this administration
against the Maduro regime and its pup-
pet masters in Havana reflect their
commitment to freedom and democ-
racy in Latin America. Yet Maduro re-
mains in power, the people of Ven-
ezuela continue to suffer, and the influ-
ence of Cuba, Russia, China, and inter-
national terrorist organizations grows.
We must do more, but in order to un-
derstand where we go from here, we
need to look at history. Hugo Chavez
might have been elected democrat-
ically, but he never intended to govern
democratically. He built a socialist
dictatorship by hollowing out all the
democratic institutions: the constitu-
tion, the electoral system, and the
courts. He made civil society and the
business sector bend to his will or face
elimination. He nationalized entire
sectors of the economy and used them
to pay off his cronies. He took over the
oil sector and made the national en-
ergy company his piggy bank. He made
common cause with our enemies—most
notably, the Castro regime. Cuba re-
ceived and continues to receive free oil
from Venezuela and in return provides
political and internal security
operatives. In other words, Cuba pro-
vided and is still providing military
thugs to help stop freedom.
Chavez allowed his regime to engage
in illicit trafficking of drugs and peo-
ple. He cooperated with Middle Eastern
terrorist organizations like Hezbollah
and the terrorist state of Iran. This co-
operation has only intensified under
Chavez’s successor, Maduro.
The path of socialism chosen by the
Chavistas inevitably led to a failed
state that relies on bad actors for sur-
vival. The result is one of the worst hu-
manitarian crises in our hemisphere’s
history.
We cannot ignore the impact the so-
cialist policies of Chavez and Maduro
has had on the people of Venezuela.
Nine out of ten households say they
don’t have enough money to buy food.
That is socialism. Eighty percent of
children under 5 are in some state of
malnutrition. That is socialism. Infla-
tion is over 10 million percent this
year, and their currency is worthless.
What does that mean to the average
person? A bundle of carrots costs 3 mil-
lion bolivars. A dozen eggs costs $150
USD. That is socialism. Venezuela has
the highest murder rate in the world.
That is socialism.
More than 3.5 million refugees—
about 12 percent of the population—
have fled to nearby countries because
they can’t get food, water, medicine, or
safety from their government. Two
million more Venezuelans are expected
to flee before the year is out, with Co-
lombia taking the brunt of this refugee
crisis. Colombian resources are
strained, as they do all they can to
help the refugees fleeing persecution,
starvation, and sickness, while the
Maduro regime blocks aid caravans,
sets them on fire, and continues to co-
operate with the narcotrafficking
rebels that plague Colombia.
I want to thank my good friend
President Duque for all he is doing.
Other nations in the region, such as
Brazil and Peru, have also chipped in,
accepting hundreds of thousands of ref-
ugees.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:03 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.029 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2418 April 11, 2019
For weeks, millions of Venezuelans
have been left without running water
and amid a series of massive blackouts.
Journalists report scenes that are now
a part of the daily life for Venezuelans:
dozens sleeping in line for their turn at
a well in one of the city’s biggest
slums; three men tossing an old paint
bucket tied with ropes down a well
hoping to hit water; people parked by
the highway, waiting their turn to
place bottles under small streams that
run down the Avila Mountain.
Many Venezuelans call these condi-
tions a genocide because the violence
and starvation are being imposed on
the civilian population as a conscious
policy of Maduro and his Cuban puppet
masters. Dictators like Maduro recog-
nize weakness as an opportunity. The
hungrier and sicker his people are, the
easier they are to repress. This is the
kind of evil we are facing in our hemi-
sphere. But one thing is clear: Maduro
underestimates his people. They may
be oppressed, but they are not weak.
They may be hungry, but their hunger
is for freedom, and they are making
their voices heard. We need to listen.
Nicholas Maduro is an illegitimate
President. His election was a sham,
just like the elections in Cuba and Rus-
sia—a complete sham and a joke. Doz-
ens of countries across Latin America
and Europe have recognized Juan
Guaido’s right to the interim Presi-
dency. As President of the National As-
sembly—the only democratic body left
in Venezuela—Juan Guaido has the
right and the duty to preside over new
elections and the return of democracy.
The people still in power in Ven-
ezuela are corrupt bureaucrats and
military officers engaged in embezzle-
ment, narcotrafficking, and human
rights abuses. Since being tested by
uprisings in 2014 and 2017, the regime
has reinforced a repressive apparatus
that uses armed mobile civilian gangs
known as colectivos, specialized police
units, and anti-riot forces of the Na-
tional Guard to terrorize and control
the civilian population through arbi-
trary arrests, beatings, detentions, and
killings.
The Maduro regime has gone so far as
to arrest the Chief of Staff for Interim
President Guaido, Roberto Marrero. I
met his wife Romy on Monday in
Miami. She fled the country 3 weeks
ago with their 7-year-old son, right be-
fore Maduro’s thugs destroyed their
home. The majority of the armed
forces want change in their country,
but they live under the repressive
forces of control, threats, intimidation,
and violence.
Russian mercenaries protect Maduro
because he can’t trust his own troops,
and the Russian Government has pro-
vided military advisers and specialists
to maintain the Maduro regime’s de-
fenses, including surface-to-air missile
systems. Russia has also sent nuclear-
capable bombers to Venezuela, in viola-
tion of the Venezuelan Constitution, to
intimidate the United States and other
countries in the region.
In short, Russia is expanding its mili-
tary presence in Venezuela to prop up a
regime hostile to the United States and
create a foothold in the Western Hemi-
sphere. Not since the Cuban Missile
Crisis has Russia taken such an aggres-
sive step to expand their influence in
the region.
Meanwhile, China evades sanctions
we have placed on the regime by in-
vesting in the country and extending
generous loans to prop up the dictator-
ship in Caracas.
The United States faces a serious na-
tional security threat and a humani-
tarian crisis at our doorstep. This is
becoming as dangerous for us as the
Syrian civil war has been for Europe,
Israel, and Jordan. Left unchecked, it
will destabilize our regional allies and
provide a base of operations for our en-
emies.
Today, I am urging the administra-
tion, Congress, and the American peo-
ple to see the crisis for what it is—a
rising tide of social and political col-
lapse encouraged and funded by our en-
emies. The socialist dictatorship of
Nicholas Maduro and his Cuban, Rus-
sian, Chinese, and narcotrafficking al-
lies do not care how many millions of
Venezuelans suffer and die. He is deter-
mined to remain in power, sucking the
life out of a once-vibrant nation and
creating an outpost for adversaries and
a safe harbor for terrorists intent on
harming Americans.
We cannot let this stand. We will be
judged for our response to this crisis—
not just the humanitarian crisis but
the threat to our hemisphere. The
credibility and security of the United
States is on the line. The question is
not whether we can tolerate this crisis
that is worsening daily—we surely can-
not. The question is, When will we act
to end it? Hostile regimes like Russia,
China, and Cuba are digging in. They
are training killers, distributing weap-
ons, and placing military assets in
Venezuela. Their message is clear:
They don’t intend to give up without a
fight.
History has proven that permitting
the former Soviet Union to establish a
presence in Cuba perpetrated a six-dec-
ade, totalitarian dictatorship that has
exported instability to the region and
worked against U.S. national security
interests. Our safety, national secu-
rity, and the peace of our hemisphere
demand that we take action. We can-
not allow this murderous regime to
continue spreading misery within its
borders and into neighboring countries.
There is a democratic government-
in-waiting in the form of National As-
sembly and Interim President Juan
Guaido. U.S. policy relies on rallying
his internal support and forcing those
around Maduro to see their future as
brighter if they defect and support the
movement toward freedom and democ-
racy. There are steps we can take to
accelerate this process.
First, we must follow through on
American policy and indict regime
leaders for human rights violations and
for narcotrafficking and money laun-
dering crimes.
The region’s strongest supporters do
not care if the people suffer, but they
do care if their stolen fortunes and
their freedom are at risk. We must
make clear to them that their future is
in jeopardy if they continue to support
Maduro and interference from Cuba,
Russia, and China. There will be no-
where to run, nowhere to hide. The
United States will give no quarter to
those who support the brutal Maduro
dictatorship instead of freedom and de-
mocracy for the people of Venezuela.
Second, we must break the hold the
Cuban Government has on Venezuela.
It is imperative that the United
States fully implement the sanctions
contained in the LIBERTAD Act to
allow U.S. nationals to sue over prop-
erty confiscated by the Cuban Govern-
ment and to deny entry to those who
traffic in stolen property. Cuba cannot
continue to freely incite violence in
Venezuela while profiting from the use
of stolen property and human traf-
ficking. Chavez and Maduro kept the
Cuban regime afloat for decades, and
now Cuban operators are keeping the
Maduro regime in power. It is time we
recognize that these problems are one
and the same.
Third, we must encourage our allies
in the region to join us in this effort.
President Trump has repeatedly
called on regional counterparts to
exert more leadership, and he has a
right to do so. The United States has
implemented strong sanctions on Ven-
ezuelan leaders, on oil, and on trade.
Our allies must join us in this effort.
The Lima Group, made up of our
friends in the region, has given broad
support to the strategy of isolating the
Maduro regime in favor of Interim
President Guaido, urging additional
sanctions. That is welcome, but they
should not rule out the possibility that
they need to pursue more aggressive
means to secure this threat. Their se-
curity and economic well-being are
also at risk. They should remember
that the Maduro regime and its sup-
porters want Venezuela’s neighbors to
live in fear. Even before this crisis
began in earnest, Colombia and Guyana
faced regular interventions and threats
from the Venezuelan regime. Maduro
and his supporters do not want peace-
ful relations with other countries ex-
cept on their own terms. I am quite
sure that Cuba, China, and Russia do
not have the best interests of the re-
gion in mind.
I was glad to see the Organization of
American States accept the appoint-
ment of the designated permanent rep-
resentative of the National Assembly,
Gustavo Tarre Briceno. Consistent
with the Inter-American Democratic
Charter, the Organization of American
States must expel Maduro’s representa-
tive. The Maduro regime is not a legiti-
mate government and has no right to
send a representative to the very body
in the Western Hemisphere charged
with protecting and promoting democ-
racy in the region.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:03 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.030 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2419
April 11, 2019
Fourth, we must not appear weak in
the face of Chinese, Russian, and Cuban
determination to prop up Maduro.
Our adversaries question our will and
determination. Put simply, they don’t
think we are serious. We should dis-
abuse them of that notion. All options,
including the use of American military
assets, must remain on the table. If
sanctions can cripple the Maduro re-
gime, we must continue on that path,
but so far, sanctions alone are not
stopping the Maduro regime, and the
United States needs to start consid-
ering the use of military assets to
bring aid to the millions of starving
and sick Venezuelans. I call on all of
our allies and those supporting Guaido
to help us in this effort.
Let me repeat that. The United
States must consider the use of mili-
tary assets to bring aid to the people of
Venezuela, but that doesn’t end the
conversation. If embargoes and block-
ades can help, we should consider
them. If military force on the part of
the United States and our allies in the
region is necessary to rid us of the
scourge of Maduro and his thugs, then
we cannot rule it out. If the Ven-
ezuelan people, through their elected
National Assembly and their own laws
and Constitution, request assistance to
restore constitutional government and
democracy, we should be ready to an-
swer that call. The Maduro regime has
not been broken yet and can count on
billions of dollars looted from the Ven-
ezuelan people and generated from 20
years of narcotrafficking.
The Cubans, Russians, and Chinese
see Venezuela as an economic oppor-
tunity, but, more importantly, they
see a chance to intimidate the United
States—to be a thorn in our side. This
is a ‘‘great power’’ confrontation and
one that our national defense strategy
might not explicitly contemplate. Yet
it is a confrontation we must be willing
to meet with decisive action.
The Venezuelan people want change,
and even now they think of survival as
much as they think of a democratic fu-
ture. They are looking to the future.
They are looking to the United States
and democratic countries to help them.
We must answer that call.
I yield the floor.
NOMINATION OF DAVID BERNHARDT
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today in opposition to the nomina-
tion of David Bernhardt to be Sec-
retary of the Interior.
I opposed his nomination as Deputy
Secretary of the Interior because of his
numerous conflicts of interest as a
former lobbyist.
Bernhardt’s tenure, both as Deputy
Secretary and now the Acting Sec-
retary at Interior, has since confirmed
my initial concerns and given rise to
new ones.
As a former partner at a powerful DC
lobbying and law firm, Bernhardt rep-
resented numerous oil, gas, mining,
and water companies with ongoing
business before the Department that he
now oversees.
The Washington Post recently re-
ported that he has at least 22 known
conflicts of interest, the most of any of
President Trump’s nominees.
This is particularly concerning given
that Mr. Bernhardt’s recusals man-
dated by President Trump will expire
in August, and he has refused to com-
mit to continuing recusing himself be-
yond then on any issues that could ben-
efit former clients.
In fact, during his recent confirma-
tion hearing, Bernhardt stated that
recusal isn’t ‘‘really is the best strat-
egy’’—an unacceptable stance.
By refusing to recuse himself, Bern-
hardt has shown a potential willing-
ness to put his former clients’ needs be-
fore the public good.
One troubling example is his rela-
tionship with Cadiz, a company that
wants to profit by draining a critical
aquifer in the Mojave Desert.
Before coming to the Department of
the Interior, Mr. Bernhardt was a part-
ner at and led the natural resources di-
vision of Brownstein Hyatt Farber
Schreck, Cadiz’s lobbying firm that re-
tains a financial stake in the project.
This project would destroy the treas-
ured California desert that I have
fought my entire Senate career to pro-
tect.
In order to sell the water, Cadiz
needs to build a more than 40-mile
pipeline through the desert to connect
to an aqueduct.
Several months after Bernhardt was
nominated as Deputy Secretary, the
Department of Interior temporarily
suspended its own solicitor’s opinion
requiring Cadiz to get Federal permits
to build its pipeline along a railroad
right-of-way.
That solicitor’s opinion was ulti-
mately reversed 2 months after he was
confirmed, completely removing the
Federal permitting authority for this
project.
The timing of this decision is ex-
tremely troubling, particularly in light
of the Interior Department’s own inde-
pendent science that has repeatedly
questioned the sustainability of this
project.
The U.S. Geological Survey, which is
part of the Interior Department, stated
in 2002 and confirmed in 2017 that the
natural recharge rate of the aquifer is
only 2,000 to 10,000 acre-feet per year.
Cadiz proposes to withdraw water at
more than 50,000 acre-feet, or 16 billion
gallons, per year for 50 years.
Taking that much water would rob
the desert of its most precious natural
resource and harm the surrounding
flora and fauna.
Now the Federal Government, despite
its own science saying Cadiz would
take too much water and legal opinions
requiring Federal review, has removed
itself from the permitting process.
Even the mere appearance of favor-
itism or special favors for Cadiz is ex-
tremely inappropriate and a concern
with this nomination.
I am also concerned that throughout
his tenure at Interior, Bernhardt has
shown a willingness to ignore the
public’s interest for political purposes.
During President Trump’s govern-
ment shutdown—the longest in U.S.
history—Acting Secretary Bernhardt
kept most of the national parks open
to avoid public backlash for the shut-
down.
Left open but severally understaffed,
major damage occurred to parks across
the country. Few places felt the impact
of his poor decision more than Joshua
Tree National Park.
Iconic Joshua trees were cut down,
cultural artifacts stolen or destroyed,
and pristine desert habitat marred by
vehicle traffic.
I have twice requested from Mr.
Bernhardt a full accounting of the
damage and costs of his decision and
have not received a response.
I am also deeply concerned by steps
Interior has recently taken to expand
offshore oil drilling, despite bipartisan
opposition from coastal States.
Californians don’t want new offshore
drilling along our coast. We still re-
member the horror of the 1969 Santa
Barbara spill, when an offshore oil rig
leaked more than 100,000 barrels, the
third largest oil spill behind the Exxon-
Valdez and Deepwater Horizon disas-
ters.
There has been no new drilling in
State waters since that spill and no
new drilling in Federal waters off the
coast of California since 1984.
Now, the Department of the Interior
is openly discussing the option of re-
starting such drilling.
Bernhardt’s ties to the fossil fuel in-
dustry give me zero confidence that the
Interior Department will reach the
right conclusion if he is confirmed.
For the reasons I have stated, I can-
not vote to confirm Mr. Bernhardt.
Should he be confirmed, I again ask
that he fully recuse himself from all
matters related to former clients dur-
ing his tenure as a lobbyist.
I urge my colleagues to carefully
consider this nomination before voting.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for up to 6
minutes prior to the scheduled vote.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
rise today to oppose the President’s
nominee for Secretary of the Interior,
David Bernhardt. Once again, instead
of draining the swamp, President
Trump is flooding the swamp with a
whole new breed of corporate-sponsored
creatures. Already, we have a former
coal lobbyist running the Environ-
mental Protection Agency. We have
chemical lobbyists running the EPA’s
chemical safety programs. And unless
we put the brakes on Mr. Bernhardt’s
nomination, soon we will have a fossil
fuel lobbyist running the Department
of Interior.
For a State like New Jersey, which
depends on a healthy, vibrant coastal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:03 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.031 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2420 April 11, 2019
economy, Mr. Bernhardt’s extensive
ties to the fossil fuel industry are trou-
bling, to say the least.
The Secretary of the Interior is
charged with the stewardship of public
lands and waters and safeguarding our
natural resources for generations to
come. Yet the Washington Post has re-
ported that Mr. Bernhardt has so many
conflicts of interest that he must carry
a card around just to keep track of
them. Think about that. Mr. Bernhardt
has such deep ties to fossil fuel compa-
nies with business pending before the
Interior Department that he cannot
keep track of them.
How Mr. Bernhardt would approach
his position if confirmed as Secretary
of Interior is no mystery. During his
time as Acting Secretary, he has
gained a reputation as a general in the
Trump administration’s war on
science. Reports suggest that he has
suppressed scientific evidence in order
to benefit corporate interests at the ex-
pense of environmental protection.
Rather than be responsive to Con-
gress about our concerns, Mr. Bern-
hardt has displayed a stunning lack of
transparency. Like many Trump nomi-
nees, he has failed to respond to basic
inquiries from Congress. For example,
on March 20, I sent a letter—along with
Senator FEINSTEIN, Senator MERKLEY,
and 15 of our colleagues—requesting
that the Acting Secretary respond to a
series of questions about his views on
offshore drilling. With his hearing in
the Energy and Natural Resources
Committee quickly approaching, we
asked Mr. Bernhardt to respond prior
to coming before Congress. This way,
committee members could have at
least a baseline understanding of his
views while crafting their questions.
We received no response.
Mr. Bernhardt then came and testi-
fied before the committee. He could
have used the opportunity to enlighten
us about his views on offshore drilling.
He chose not to. Now, 3 weeks later, we
still lack answers, even as the majority
seeks to confirm him as Secretary of
the Interior.
When an individual seeking con-
firmation by the Senate refuses to an-
swer basic questions posed by 18 Sen-
ators, that should be a red flag for all
of us. The questions that were asked
weren’t technical. They weren’t
‘‘gotcha’’ questions. They were
straightforward questions about one of
the most fundamental jobs the Sec-
retary of the Interior has—the steward-
ship of our Nation’s coastal waters.
We asked Acting Secretary Bern-
hardt: Do you support opening up any
or all of the Atlantic Ocean to offshore
oil and gas exploration, development,
or production? No response.
We posed the same question about
the Pacific, the Arctic, and the eastern
Gulf of Mexico. Again, no response.
We asked the Acting Secretary if he
would commit to meeting with the
Governors of States in which he pro-
poses to drill for oil. No response.
We asked if he would commit to
meaningful public hearings in States
impacted by offshore oil drilling. No
response.
We asked how he could reconcile the
opposition to offshore drilling of every
Atlantic and Pacific Governor—Demo-
crat and Republican—with President
Trump’s goal of opening all of those
waters to drilling. Again, we got no re-
sponse.
We asked whether the Acting Sec-
retary could confirm to us that the
Trump administration’s revisions to
the well control rule—the one major
safety reform put in place after the
Deepwater Horizon disaster—wouldn’t
denigrate safety. No response.
I will not risk it. I will not risk New
Jersey’s $44 billion tourism industry. I
will not risk over $800 billion in coastal
property values. I will not risk a recre-
ation and commercial fishing industry
that supports 50,000 jobs in my State. I
will not risk the economies of shore
towns up and down the coast of New
Jersey and the entire Atlantic. I will
not risk the lives and livelihoods that
depend on clean coastal waters because
that is what we are risking if we vote
for Mr. Bernhardt.
I cannot fathom going home to my
constituents and telling them that I
gave the nominee for Secretary of the
Interior a free pass on basic questions
about the job he is applying for.
With the radio silence from this
nominee on offshore drilling, I have no
reason to believe Mr. Bernhardt will
deviate from the path chartered by this
administration. Every Member of this
Chamber knows what that path looks
like.
We have seen the weakening of pro-
tections put in place after the BP oil-
spill, endangering the safety of workers
and the livelihood of our vibrant coast-
lines. We will see the start of seismic
blasting in search of oil up and down
our coasts without any concern for the
devastating impact on wildlife and our
fisheries. We will see the finalization of
President Trump’s offshore drilling
plan—one that would open the entire
Atlantic Ocean, the entire Pacific
Ocean, the entire Gulf of Mexico, and
the entire Arctic Ocean to offshore
drilling. If this plan comes to fruition,
sooner or later we will see another cri-
sis of the magnitude of the Deepwater
Horizon.
My friends, my colleagues, this is not
a matter of if; it is a matter of when.
When that day comes, every Member of
this Chamber who supported David
Bernhardt is going to have to answer
to their constituents, to the shore busi-
nesses who see their livelihoods washed
away in a slick of oil, to the fishermen
who are suddenly out of a job through
no fault of their own, to coastal towns
that see their communities and the
tourism and recreation industries their
economies depend on wiped out.
I refuse to take that risk. A vote for
David Bernhardt is a vote for offshore
drilling. I ask my colleagues to oppose
his nomination.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, all postcloture time
has expired.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Bernhardt nom-
ination?
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. PERDUE).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
and the Senator from California (Ms.
HARRIS) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 56,
nays 41, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 77 Ex.]
YEAS—56
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—41
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—3
Booker Harris Perdue
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:03 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.033 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2421
April 11, 2019
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 123.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
William Cooper, of Maryland, to be
General Counsel of the Department of
Energy.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of William Cooper, of Maryland, to be
General Counsel of the Department of En-
ergy.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, Shelley
Moore Capito, John Barrasso, John
Boozman, Mike Crapo, Richard C.
Shelby, Mike Rounds, John Cornyn,
Roger F. Wicker, Pat Roberts, John
Thune, John Hoeven, Roy Blunt, Marco
Rubio, Tim Scott, Kevin Cramer.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 188.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
R. Clarke Cooper, of Florida, to be an
Assistant Secretary of State (Political-
Military Affairs).
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of R. Clarke Cooper, of Florida, to be
an Assistant Secretary of State (Political-
Military Affairs).
Mitch McConnell, Thom Tillis, Mike
Crapo, John Hoeven, Johnny Isakson,
John Thune, Shelley Moore Capito,
John Boozman, Mike Rounds, Pat Rob-
erts, James E. Risch, Richard Burr,
John Barrasso, Roy Blunt, David
Perdue, John Cornyn, Tom Cotton.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 214.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Gordon Hartogensis, of Connecticut, to
be Director of the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation for a term of
five years.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Gordon Hartogensis, of Con-
necticut, to be Director of the Pension Ben-
efit Guaranty Corporation for a term of five
years.
Mitch McConnell, Thom Tillis, Mike
Crapo, John Hoeven, Johnny Isakson,
John Thune, Shelley Moore Capito,
John Boozman, Mike Rounds, Pat Rob-
erts, James E. Risch, Richard Burr,
John Barrasso, Roy Blunt, David
Perdue, John Cornyn, Tom Cotton.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 26.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
J. Campbell Barker, of Texas, to be
United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Texas.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of J. Campbell Barker, of Texas, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Texas.
Mitch McConnell, Johnny Isakson, Roger
F. Wicker, John Boozman, John Cor-
nyn, Mike Crapo, Shelley Moore Cap-
ito, Pat Roberts, Roy Blunt, Deb Fisch-
er, David Perdue, Todd Young, John
Thune, Mike Rounds, Steve Daines,
John Hoeven, Thom Tillis.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 29.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Andrew Lynn Brasher, of Alabama, to
be United States District Judge for the
Middle District of Alabama.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Andrew Lynn Brasher, of Alabama,
to be United States District Judge for the
Middle District of Alabama.
Mitch McConnell, Johnny Isakson, Roger
F. Wicker, John Boozman, John Cor-
nyn, Mike Crapo, Shelley Moore Cap-
ito, Pat Roberts, Roy Blunt, Deb Fisch-
er, David Perdue, Todd Young, John
Thune, Mike Rounds, Steve Daines,
John Hoeven, Thom Tillis.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:03 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.035 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2422 April 11, 2019
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 33.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Rodolfo Armando Ruiz II, of Florida, to
be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Florida.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Rodolfo Armando Ruiz II, of Flor-
ida, to be United States District Judge for
the Southern District of Florida.
Mitch McConnell, Deb Fischer, Mike
Rounds, James E. Risch, John Thune,
Rick Scott, James M. Inhofe, John Cor-
nyn, John Hoeven, Pat Roberts, Tim
Scott, Steve Daines, Richard Burr,
John Boozman, Roy Blunt, Shelley
Moore Capito, John Barrasso.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 34.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Raul M. Arias-Marxuach, of Puerto
Rico, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Puerto Rico.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Raul M. Arias-Marxuach, of Puerto
Rico, to be United States District Judge for
the District of Puerto Rico.
Mitch McConnell, Deb Fischer, Mike
Rounds, James E. Risch, John Thune,
Rick Scott, James M. Inhofe, John Cor-
nyn, John Hoeven, Pat Roberts, Tim
Scott, Steve Daines, Richard Burr,
John Boozman, Roy Blunt, Shelley
Moore Capito, John Barrasso.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 36.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Joshua Wolson, of Pennsylvania, to be
United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Joshua Wolson, of Pennsylvania, to
be United States District Judge for the East-
ern District of Pennsylvania.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, Shelley
Moore Capito, John Barrasso, John
Boozman, Mike Crapo, Richard C.
Shelby, Mike Rounds, John Cornyn,
Roger F. Wicker, Pat Roberts, John
Thune, John Hoeven, Roy Blunt, Marco
Rubio, Tim Scott, Kevin Cramer.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
calls for the cloture motions be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CONFIRMATION OF DAVID BERNHARDT
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, we
just voted in a very important vote on
the Senate floor—a bipartisan vote—to
confirm Mr. David Bernhardt as the
next Secretary of the Interior for the
United States of America. It was a
strong vote—56 to 41.
I want to begin my remarks this
afternoon by rising to express my grat-
itude and appreciation to Mr. Bern-
hardt for stepping up to the plate to
continue to serve his country and to
continue to serve the Department of
the Interior now in the role of Sec-
retary, the individual who is going to
be running the Department of the Inte-
rior for the United States.
I thank my colleagues. It was a bi-
partisan vote in the Senate, which I
think is important for voting for now-
Secretary Bernhardt. Actually, I would
like to be the first Senator to call him
Secretary Bernhardt. If you and your
family are watching, Mr. Secretary,
thank you.
I also want to mention that I have
been listening to some of the speeches
made by my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle. To be perfectly blunt,
I find what we just witnessed a bit dis-
heartening. I would like to say at the
outset that we can and should disagree
on policy disputes. Certainly issues
like land issues are really important to
me in my State, that is for sure. We
can disagree about the direction of how
we are going to move some of those
policies forward. What is disheart-
ening, though, is when you have some-
one like Mr. Bernhardt, who is willing
to serve his country again—and I am
going to talk about that—essentially
getting his reputation dragged through
the mud on the Senate floor. It is not
a good thing. It doesn’t encourage peo-
ple to want to serve.
So, Mr. Secretary, thank you. I know
this wasn’t an easy confirmation proc-
ess.
When you look at his background,
this is actually one of the most quali-
fied individuals to serve as the Sec-
retary whom we have had in many
years. He was the Solicitor General
under President George W. Bush, con-
firmed by the Senate; he was the Dep-
uty Secretary for the last 2 years, con-
firmed by this body; and now he is the
Secretary. I would say those are very
high qualifications. I just want to talk
about him for a little bit.
Why do I support Mr. Bernhardt? The
Secretary of the Department of the In-
terior is really important to America.
It is critically important to my State,
the great State of Alaska. We have
over 200 million acres of land under the
Department of the Interior’s control in
Alaska—200 million acres. That is over
two times the size of California. In
fact, one-quarter of all the lands that
the Department of the Interior man-
ages for the United States reside in
Alaska. Let me repeat that. One-quar-
ter of all the lands that the Secretary
of the Interior manages in America are
in my State.
So we take this role of Secretary of
the Interior very, very seriously, which
is why I wanted to come to the floor
and again thank Secretary Bernhardt
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:03 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.045 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2423
April 11, 2019
and let him know that even though
there were a lot of Senators down here
really ripping into him, the vast major-
ity of us—56 of us, at least—think he is
going to do a great job.
Why do we think that, Mr. Sec-
retary? Well, certainly with regard to
Alaska, sometimes Secretaries of the
Interior understand our State and that
we are different and unique and that
Federal laws passed by this body say
so. Other Secretaries of the Interior
don’t. They don’t understand that in
Alaska you have to balance conserva-
tion with resource development and
economic opportunity. Secretary Bern-
hardt does understand this, and this is
refreshing. Secretary Zinke did. This
was refreshing. It was a refreshing
break from the previous administra-
tion, the Obama administration, where
Secretaries of the Interior, like Sally
Jewell, went out of their way to tilt
Federal power in a way that disadvan-
taged the State of Alaska, despite Fed-
eral law saying you shouldn’t do that.
Well, we just had a U.S. Supreme
Court decision 2 weeks ago saying that
that practice of the Department of the
Interior and their different officials
tilting the law against Alaskans had to
stop. It was a huge case that I talked
about on the floor last week, Sturgeon
v. Frost, which says that in the laws of
the Federal Government, particularly
as they relate to Alaska—the Supreme
Court stated it several times in a 9-to-
0 opinion—Alaska is unique and Alaska
is different. When it comes to the De-
partment of the Interior, it is very dif-
ferent.
Well, Mr. Secretary Bernhardt knows
that, and that is one of the reasons
why I am so pleased to have voted for
him and supported his confirmation,
which we just saw on the Senate floor.
It is not just me who supports him. Let
me provide some quotes from letters
and support groups, because, again,
after listening to some of my col-
leagues the last couple of days, you
would have thought that everybody
was against him. Actually, most
groups who care about conservation
were for him. Let me give one really
important group—the Alaska Federa-
tion of Natives, an extremely impor-
tant group in my State. The Secretary
of the Interior has trust responsibil-
ities to lower 48 Indians and Alaska
Natives. This group had this to say
about Mr. Bernhardt:
He listens well. He is articulate in his re-
sponses. He draws reasonable conclusions.
Moreover, he has established a trusting rela-
tionship with the Alaska Native community
around the issues of resource development
and subsistence hunting and fishing.
So they have been complimentary
and supportive.
The American Farm Bureau says:
This President’s nomination of David
Bernhardt as Secretary of the Interior is
great news for American agriculture. He un-
derstands the needs of America’s farmers and
ranchers and is an excellent choice for Inte-
rior Secretary.
The Association of Fish and Wildlife
Agencies—who are they? Those are the
men and women in each State who
manage fish and game like the Depart-
ment of the Interior. Here is what they
had to say:
The Association is appreciative of Mr.
Bernhardt’s continued support for the great
work of state fish and wildlife agencies in
conserving our nation’s natural resources.
The Congressional Sportsmen Foun-
dation says:
Mr. Bernhardt has demonstrated he is a
true advocate for sportsmen and women
across the country by working with the com-
munity throughout his career in natural re-
sources management, and implementing Sec-
retarial Orders that promote sportsmen’s ac-
cess to public lands.
That is a very big issue in my State.
Even a group like Ducks Unlimited
says: ‘‘His integrity in following the
law is beyond reproach.’’ Let me say
that one again. ‘‘His integrity in fol-
lowing the law is beyond reproach.’’
David Bernhardt is a champion of con-
servation and the right person for the
job.
When I was the commissioner of nat-
ural resources in the great State of
Alaska—which actually is a job similar
to the Secretary of the Interior, where
we manage an enormous portfolio of
land, water, oil, gas, minerals, and tim-
ber—I had the opportunity to actually
hire Mr. Bernhardt when he was in the
private sector as an attorney helping
the State of Alaska with a big com-
plicated lands issue. He did a great job.
He was a hard worker. He was a man of
integrity. So the list goes on and on of
the supporters.
So, again, Mr. Secretary, we just
want you to know that given your
background as former Solicitor of the
Department of the Interior and former
Deputy Secretary of the Department of
the Interior and as someone who has
gotten rave reviews from groups all
across the country, and now as the Sec-
retary of the Interior, my view is that
you are actually one of the most quali-
fied individuals to hold this position.
So congratulations. You certainly
earned it. We appreciate your service
to this great Nation of ours, your serv-
ice to the Department of the Interior,
and your service to my State, the great
State of Alaska, and we certainly look
forward to working with you as you
continue your public service for our
country, for Interior, and for Alaska. I
just wanted to come to the floor to
commend you on a strong bipartisan
support, and we are going to look for-
ward to working with you.
TRIBUTE TO CYNTHIA ERICKSON
Mr. President, it is Thursday after-
noon, and it is one of the times that I
enjoy the most here in the Senate be-
cause it is the time when I get to come
down to the floor and do a little brag-
ging about my State and, most impor-
tantly, do a little bragging about the
people who make Alaska such a won-
derful place and such a unique place.
Now, we have all heard the stories
about the grandeur, size, and beauty of
the great State of Alaska, and they are
all true, as you know. To anyone
watching, we would love for you to
come on up for a visit. You will love it.
It will be the best trip of your life.
Right now, for example, what is hap-
pening in Alaska is that it is a wonder-
ful time of the year. We are gaining
sunlight every day. The snow is melt-
ing. The birds are beginning their huge
migration back to Alaska. Some flow-
ers are even starting to bloom in parts
of the State. It is a wonderful and in-
credible time.
Like any State, and we all come
down here and like to talk about our
States, it is the people who truly make
my State so special. It is generous peo-
ple who work tirelessly day in and day
out to help one another. So each week,
I come down to the Senate floor and
talk about one of these individuals, and
I call that person ‘‘Alaskan of the
Week.’’
Today, that person is a wonderful
leader and a good friend of mine, Cyn-
thia Erickson. As I mentioned, we live
in a great State—great State to raise a
family, build a good exciting life of
service and meaning. But Alaska, like
all States, has its share of challenges,
and one of the biggest and most per-
nicious challenges in Alaska is that we,
unfortunately, have some of the high-
est rates of domestic violence and sex-
ual assault in the country—as a matter
of fact, in a lot of categories, the high-
est, including child abuse.
Now, when I was attorney general, we
made confronting this issue a very big
priority. We are continuing to push
these initiatives in the Senate. Just
yesterday, Senator GILLIBRAND and I
introduced a bill that would seek to
change the culture around sexual as-
sault and domestic violence through a
national ad campaign. We called that
bill the Choose Respect Act, and we in-
troduced it yesterday. This is a bill
that will be part of a whole series of
bills focused on trying to bring respect
to our country with regard to these
issues. Stay tuned on that.
Here is a fact. We can do all of those
kinds of important pieces of legislation
here in the Senate on these kinds of
critical issues, but as I think we all
know that it is really the work done on
the ground by members of the commu-
nity and the grassroots that ultimately
has the biggest and most lasting im-
pact on these critical issues—the big-
gest and most lasting impact on chang-
ing the culture that we need to change,
not just in Alaska but in the country,
on these issues of abuse and domestic
violence.
I am happy to say that there are hun-
dreds, if not thousands, of people
across my State—heroes all, no doubt—
who have banded together using their
passion, creativity, and energy to be
there for victims and survivors and to
help them break out of cycles of vio-
lence that often can be generational
cycles.
Let’s talk about one of those heroes,
a very special woman, Cynthia
Erickson, and today’s Alaskan of the
Week, who has spent countless hours
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:03 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.052 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2424 April 11, 2019
helping to stop the generational cycle
by helping Alaskan children, one child
at a time, who are victims of abuse
themselves and who are living in
households where violence is prevalent.
Confronting the abuse of children can
be a very difficult issue. It is so heart-
breaking and so tragic that we often
don’t want to talk about it and you
want to sweep it under the rug. But
Cynthia, with a group of children she
has gathered, is working to break that
culture of silence one kid at a time. I
can’t think of anything more impor-
tant than that.
Before I talk about what she is doing
and what she has been doing, let’s talk
a little bit about her background. Her
family is from Ruby, in Western Alas-
ka, on the mighty Yukon River. She
was raised in Tanana, a village of
about 300 people near the confluence of
the Yukon and Tanana Rivers, where
she has been living for the past 33
years.
Many years ago I had the oppor-
tunity to visit with Cynthia and her
husband in Tanana. She hosted me and
some other State of Alaska officials. I
remember being so welcomed by her
and her family but also coming away
thinking: This is a woman who is a
leader and a woman of spirit and a
woman of energy and a woman of pas-
sion.
We see that a lot in Alaska with Cyn-
thia. She received a degree in elemen-
tary education from the University of
Fairbanks. Her family owns a store
that she worked at, but she never lost
her love for children. Her house was a
place where children throughout the
town in Tanana went. She had things
for them to do, but it was also one of
those homes—and we all know the
homes we are talking about in different
communities throughout Alaska and
the country—that kids felt safe in.
That was her home.
About 5 or 6 years ago, when there
was a series of suicides in her village
and in nearby villages, she knew she
had to do something. She called the
local politician. He talked her into
coming to Juneau, our State capital, to
work for him. She did that for a few
months, and she gathered as much in-
formation as she could about programs
available to help children in crisis. But
she wasn’t satisfied. She concluded
that there wasn’t nearly enough being
done.
When she got back home, she took
matters into her own hands. Amassing
a group of children, she started a 4–H
club, which eventually morphed into a
nonprofit called ‘‘Setsoo ‘Yeh.’’ That is
Athabaskan for ‘‘My Grandmother’s
House.’’ In Cynthia’s house, kids gath-
er to crochet, to sew, to cook, and to
be. They glide on the snow outside in
the winter, and they swim together in
the summer. She told a reporter re-
cently, when she was being honored:
‘‘Between all the swimming and the
sewing and the beading—we all sewed
our own kuspuks—in between all that,
we talk about our problems.’’
Why? Why did she call it ‘‘My Grand-
mother’s House’’? Because every child
that she spoke to who was having prob-
lems—and she spoke to a lot of them—
had fond memories of a grandmother’s
home—a place where soup is served,
bread is baked, mukluks are sewn, and
a place of love and safety. Currently,
Cynthia’s ‘‘My Grandmother’s House’’
is a virtual space for kids in far-flung
villages, but she envisions real houses
all across the State—houses where
children can go and be safe.
First, she had to raise awareness of
these issues that affect so many chil-
dren in Alaska. In 2014 she and seven of
these brave kids went to the Alaska
Federation of Natives conference. That
is the biggest gathering of indigenous
people in North America every year.
AFN comes together for the con-
ference, usually in Anchorage or Fair-
banks, and these young kids spoke on
stage about what they had experienced.
I remember this. It was so powerful.
The stories they told of abuse that
they or their friends had experienced
were heartbreaking and very difficult
to listen to. Importantly, they im-
plored the elders in the audience to
stop turning a blind eye to the abuse.
That took so much courage from these
children and their courageous leader,
Cynthia.
When the presentation was over at
AFN, it received a standing ovation.
People cried, they thanked Cynthia,
and they thanked these courageous
young kids for at long last having the
courage to speak out—remarkable.
Last summer, Cynthia and 11 chil-
dren and a doctor—a mental health
therapist—traveled on a plane, a bus, a
boat—we have a very big State—to
Fairbanks and to the villages of Minto,
Tanana, Ruby, and Galena. It was a
healing journey, they called it. At the
villages, the kids formed a talking cir-
cle to talk about their experiences.
Again, this is courage. It is not easy
for young children to do this. They ate
together, danced, prayed together, and
talked some more. Cynthia said about
this journey:
It’s empowering the children. It’s giving
them a voice. It’s grassroots. There are so
many programs out there to help kids, but
there are not boots on the ground [on the
frontlines]. They aren’t grassroots. These
kids have had enough. They are sick of wait-
ing for help. I tell them all the time, ‘We are
the ones we’ve been waiting for’ [for the
help].
That is a beautiful statement and a
powerful statement: We are the ones
we have been waiting for. It is a grass-
roots movement to do what we all
know is right—to work to stamp out
this kind of horrible abuse.
We just learned last night that Cyn-
thia has been appointed to the Alaska
State Commission for Human Rights.
It is no surprise to me. This is a woman
of energy, passion, and inspiration who
has done so much for these kids—and,
by the way, a woman of courage. I am
confident she will do a great job in that
new position—a very important posi-
tion in Alaska. She will bring her em-
pathy, her common sense, and her pas-
sion to protect Alaskans—particularly
our children—across the State.
Cynthia, from the bottom of my
heart, my friend, thanks for all the
great work you do. Thanks for your
courage. Thanks for your energy.
Thanks for being an inspiration for all
of us. Thank you for protecting our
most precious asset, our most precious
resource—our kids in Alaska. Thank
you for creating My Grandmother’s
House. Everybody needs a grand-
mother’s house. Thank you. And con-
gratulations on being our Alaskan of
the Week.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). The Senator from Wyoming.
(The remarks of Mr. ENZI pertaining
to the introduction of S. 1770 are print-
ed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘State-
ments on Introduced Bills and Joint
Resolutions.’’)
Mr. ENZI. I suggest the absence of a
quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF DREW H. WRIGLEY
Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, in a lit-
tle bit, we are going to have the oppor-
tunity to vote to confirm Drew Wrigley
as the next U.S. attorney for the Dis-
trict of North Dakota. First of all, I
want to thank Leader MCCONNELL and
Leader SCHUMER for providing this op-
portunity to vote to confirm this out-
standing candidate.
A little bit about Drew. First of all,
he is a good personal friend. Drew is a
sincere public servant. He has served
our State as our Lieutenant Governor
and previously as U.S. attorney for
North Dakota under President George
W. Bush. He has a servant’s heart.
The thing I like so much about Drew
is, besides being a professional pros-
ecutor—and prior to even being a U.S.
attorney, he was a longtime prosecutor
in Philadelphia in the district attor-
ney’s office. He is good at his job. He is
smart. He is compassionate. He cares
as much as anything about the rule and
the letter of the law and the victims of
crimes. But the thing I like the most
about Drew is that he is a courageous
prosecutor. He doesn’t just take the
layups. He is willing to push to the
edge for victims, for justice. He takes
the tough cases, and he takes them on.
Win or lose, he fights as hard as he can
for the cause of justice and for the vic-
tims of crimes.
So it is a great honor for me today to
advocate for Drew’s confirmation, and
I look forward to the opportunity in a
little bit to vote for it.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.053 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2425
April 11, 2019
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent the Senate pro-
ceed to the en bloc consideration of the
following nominations: Executive Cal-
endar Nos. 108, 160, 161, and 206.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions en bloc.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nations of Drew H. Wrigley, of North
Dakota, to be United States Attorney
for the District of North Dakota for
the term of four years; Wing Chau, of
Rhode Island, to be United States Mar-
shal for the District of Rhode Island for
the term of four years; Ramona L.
Dohman, of Minnesota, to be United
States Marshal for the District of Min-
nesota for the term of four years; and
Nick Edward Proffitt, of Virginia, to be
United States Marshal for the Eastern
District of Virginia for the term of four
years.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nominations en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate vote on the
nominations en bloc with no inter-
vening action or debate; that, if con-
firmed, the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table en bloc; that the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tion; that no further motions be in
order; and that any statements relat-
ing to the nominations be printed in
the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Wrigley, Chau,
Dohman, and Proffitt nominations en
bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session for a
period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
REMEMBERING MIRIAM ZAYED
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, in the
early 20th century, hundreds of emi-
grants left the Palestinian town of
Beitunia to come to Chicago for a bet-
ter life. Many could not read or write
in English. Still, they set about suc-
ceeding in America and fitting into so-
ciety, overcoming obstacles in a new
land, becoming salesmen, shopkeepers,
and factory workers. Miriam Zayed
grew up in this community outside of
Chicago.
Khalil Gibran once wrote, ‘‘I slept,
and I dreamed that life is all joy. I
woke, and I saw that life is all service.
I served, and I saw that service was
joy.’’ The call to service isn’t an easy
path, and not nearly enough answer
this call, but there are times when you
meet someone who embodies the joy of
service. This was Miriam Zayed.
Miriam passed away last fall in Octo-
ber after a lifetime of leadership. She
spent her life fighting for Arabs and
Muslims in the Chicagoland area and
the rights of everyone.
Born and raised in Chicago, Miriam
always had a love of politics and edu-
cation. She convinced her parents to
let her go to Chicago State University,
becoming among the first in her family
to attend college. But there was one
stipulation. Her mother had to go with
her every day. Miriam’s thirst for
knowledge would not be deterred by
having her mom take her to and from
school and wait outside her classes.
She went on to receive her master’s de-
gree from National Louis University in
curriculum education.
Miriam was one of the first Arab
Americans in the Chicagoland area to
run for public office when she ran for
District 230 School Board in the 1990s.
As treasurer of the Arab-American
Democrat Club, Miriam brought all
local politicians and candidates to at-
tend the annual candidate’s forum
brunch and encouraged the Arab-Amer-
ican Community to attend and be rec-
ognized as voting constituents. I have
attended the AADC forums, and prom-
ise you, it was always a full house, and
Miriam was always working. She never
sat for the entire event.
Those that attended AADC brunches,
events at the United Holy Land Fund,
or the Beitunia Club events knew the
tireless work of Miriam Zayed. She
never sought the limelight, but all who
knew her respected her.
When she wasn’t building her com-
munity, Miriam was teaching in the
Chicago Public School system in the
Englewood neighborhood in Chicago.
For decades, she taught at the Earle
Elementary School. She took her class-
es to the Art Institute in Chicago, and
for some students, it was the first time
they ever went downtown. She edu-
cated her students about State govern-
ment and introduced them to public of-
ficials. Miriam purchased school sup-
plies and clothing for her students too.
Miriam also somehow found time to
run her own business as a certified pub-
lic accountant, helping people in the
community with their tax preparation
and planning needs. She treated every-
one as family.
The week before she passed away, a
candidates’ forum and brunch that she
helped organize took place to celebrate
politics and the 2018 election. By then,
she was too ill to attend as she had
done so many times before. The
brunch’s keynote speaker, Illinois
House Speaker Michael Madigan, re-
ported that April would be designated
Arab Heritage Month by the State of
Illinois. There wasn’t a better place to
make that declaration.
In May of this year, Miriam will be
awarded the 2019 Najeeb Halaby Award
for Public Service posthumously by the
Arab American Institute Foundation
at the Kahlil Gibran Spirit of Human-
ity Awards. This award is given to
those who promote greater under-
standing and appreciation of diversity
and inclusion. Her decades of work for
her students, the greater Chicago area,
and the many communities of which
she was a member make her more than
worthy of the award.
Miriam’s joy in service and love for
her family and community will be
missed. She is survived by her husband
Refat Zayed; her children Hythem
Zayed, Belal Zayed, Holly (Zayed)
Murad, and Lena Hussien; and by her
brothers and sisters, Nancy, Zayid,
Adele, Heyam, Hanan, Cindy, and
Dena.
f
TRIBUTE TO JOHN OSTENBURG
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, the late
Pulitzer award-winning historian Studs
Terkel in his seminal book, ‘‘The Good
War,’’ described how the Second World
War helped give birth to a new middle
class for America. The GI bill helped
make new things possible. One of those
things was the opening of the suburbs
for everyone and not just the exclusive
domain of the upper class. Thanks to
the GI bill, new suburbs became places
for returning soldiers and their fami-
lies to earn a better way of life. This is
how Park Forest entered the lexicon of
Americana. It was one of America’s
first ‘‘GI Towns.’’
Park Forest has always been on the
frontlines of progress. The town won
the All-American City award twice,
first in 1953 and then in 1977, for its
work in racial integration and open
housing initiatives. For the last 20
years, my friend, Mayor John
Ostenburg, has maintained this tradi-
tion while leading Park Forest through
a new time of transition and anxiety.
Now, as John passes his leadership to a
new generation, Park Forest has never
been stronger.
John’s vocations and career high-
lights were too numerous to count.
John was born and raised in Spring-
field, IL. Graduating high school in
1963, he joined a Catholic seminary
called the Clerics of St. Viator, where
he developed a lifelong sense of justice
and humanity. His expertise and inter-
est in the studies of the Trappist monk
Thomas Merton earned the admiration
of so many, and John regularly is pub-
lished discussing Thomas Merton.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.057 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2426 April 11, 2019
As a young seminarian, John joined
35,000 others in rallying with Dr. Mar-
tin Luther King at Soldier Field in Chi-
cago and then marched with him as he
went to Chicago City Hall to post his
demands on its doors. He remains, to
this day, a life member of the NAACP.
Making a difference has always been
part of who John Ostenburg is as a per-
son. He witnessed firsthand the vio-
lence at the 1968 Democratic Conven-
tion while working as a campaign man-
ager for Eugene McCarthy’s Presi-
dential campaign.
Upon leaving the seminary, John be-
came a reporter at the Springfield
State Journal covering the African-
American community. He would go on
to be an editor for the Joliet Herald-
News, a sports editor for the Tinley
Park Crescent Newspapers, and a re-
porter for the Hammond Times. He
even was part-owner and managing edi-
tor for the Lockport Free Press.
What brought him to Park Forest
was education. He took a job as com-
munications director for Prairie State
College. John has been a classroom
teacher at the grade school, high
school, community college, and univer-
sity levels. His expertise teaching and
administrative work made him an ideal
leader in the Chicago Teachers Union.
He edited the Union’s publications,
chaired the communications depart-
ment, and was legislative director and
chief of staff from 2007 to 2010. He also
helped move the organization out of
debt into fiscal stability.
John’s love of Park Forest and its
residents always came through to ev-
eryone. It was the late Marge Fried-
man Scherr, a legend in the commu-
nity, that talked him into running for
the Park Forest village board. She saw
greatness in him. He lost in 1983, but he
didn’t give up. He won a 2-year term in
1985, and after the board approved a
staggered 3-year term, won again in
1985.
In 1992, John ran and won a seat in
the Illinois Legislature for the 80th
District. He lost reelection 2 years
later, but it was a blessing in disguise.
John returned to the Park Forest vil-
lage board in 1997, and in 1999, he ran
and won his first term as mayor. He
would go on to win reelection in 2003,
2007, 2011, and 2015, becoming the long-
est serving mayor in the history of
Park Forest.
During his time as mayor, John
helped Park Forest continue its tradi-
tion as a place of progress. His vision-
ary approach made the town an All-
American award finalist in 2000 and
2006. John continued Park Forest’s tra-
dition of diversity by encouraging
unity and equality in Chicago South-
land, earning a 2009 Award from Diver-
sity, Inc. John’s expertise in housing is
respected nationally, and he has served
on panels for the Brookings Institute
on confronting poverty in America.
John implemented the Park Forest
Sustainability Plan to help ensure resi-
dents maintain high-quality life for fu-
ture generations through green
projects that bring the community to-
gether. Under John’s leadership, Park
Forest was the recipient of the Distin-
guished Budget Award and Certificate
of Excellence in Financial Reporting
for more than 20 years.
John Ostenburg’s focus on service to
others and the greater good is a trade-
mark of his lifetime. His role model
Thomas Merton once said, ‘‘We do not
exist for ourselves.’’ John’s career is a
reflection of this. Son, father, grand-
father, author, and mayor are all roles
in which he excelled. The people of
Park Forest, the people of Illinois, and
I take pride in calling him a friend. We
thank him for his public service. John
will never cease being a servant to peo-
ple.
f
TRIBUTE TO KATHERINE
PATERSON
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. president, Katherine
Paterson is a Vermont author with
more than 30 titles to her name and a
list of awards that other writers could
only dream of. She has a keenly special
knack for introducing young readers to
difficult topics about life and death, as
she did with her well-known novel,
‘‘Bridge to Terabithia.’’ She has just
added a prestigious and fitting recogni-
tion to that long list, having been
named the American Academy of Arts
and Letters’ 2019 E.B. White Award
winner. The award pays tribute to her
lifetime of achievement in children’s
literature.
What is notable about this latest
award is the modesty by which Kath-
erine Paterson comes to it. In an inter-
view with Vermont Public Radio, VPR,
the author who has twice won both the
National Book Award and the Newbery
Medal said her latest award held spe-
cial meaning.
‘‘Any award that has the name ‘E.B.
White’ attached to it brings with it a
great thrill of joy, since he’s one of my
real heroes,’’ she told her VPR audi-
ence. ‘‘He probably was one of the best
writers in America, and yet he re-
spected children so much that he wrote
some of his best work for them. And
that makes me incredibly happy.’’
Clearly, some of E.B. White’s influ-
ence has rubbed off, as Katherine
Paterson’s own novels show great re-
spect for her readers, young and old
alike. Her writing has been hailed for
the compassion she expresses, taking
on life’s challenges—and tragedies—in
a forthright and honest exploration for
young readers. Her achievement is all
the more impressive given that Kath-
erine Paterson’s first language was
Chinese, having been born to Christian
missionaries who immersed her in the
culture before being forced to leave
China in the late 1930s. Her studies of
both Chinese and Japanese cultures, as
well as her religious interests, are evi-
dent in her collection of writings.
We are fortunate that Katherine and
her late husband John chose to settle
in Vermont more than three decades
ago. On both local and national levels,
she has been most generous with her
time, visiting schools and inspiring
young people to read, while advocating
for organizations that promote lit-
eracy. It is no wonder that Katherine
Paterson has been named a Living Leg-
end by the Library of Congress.
Marcelle and I are proud and honored
to call Katherine Paterson a friend
and, more so, a Vermonter.
Congratulations to you, Katherine,
on this latest and most meaningful rec-
ognition. It is so very much deserved.
f
RECOGNIZING VERMONT’S BEAU
TIES LTD.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, it is not
often that I say the words ‘‘Vermont’’
and ‘‘bow tie’’ in the same sentence,
except, of course, when discussing the
famed Beau Ties Ltd. of Vermont. Beau
Ties, Vermont’s sole bow tie manufac-
turer, got its start as a mom-and-pop
operation more than 25 years ago and
maintains that ethos. They are an
amazing example of the many small
businesses that are the heart and soul
of Vermont.
Beau Ties was started in 1993 by bow
tie aficionado Bill Kenerson and his
wife Deborah Venman. They ran the
company out of their home and sold
their bow ties through the mail. Over
the years, the company has grown to
employ 30 Vermonters and now has its
own manufacturing facility in
Middlebury. They sell hundreds of dif-
ferent bow ties, and their selection is
constantly changing to keep customers
coming back.
Though they are no longer at the
helm, Bill and Deborah’s desire to keep
the company in Vermont has been hon-
ored. In fact, the company has never
left the facility that it moved into in
1999, and many of its employees have
been with Beau Ties for over 20 years.
Among its clientele, Beau Ties Ltd.
can count the late Orville Redenbacher
and Bill Nye. The company has also cut
cloth for the Obama White House and
is the official tiemaker of the U.S.
House of Representatives and the
Vermont Statehouse. I have also sport-
ed Beau Ties before: I wore one of their
bow ties to the investiture of Judge
Geoffrey Crawford, now chief judge of
the U.S. District Court for the District
of Vermont.
I am proud to recognize the achieve-
ments and devoted following that Beau
Ties Ltd. has accumulated over its
nearly three decades in business. I ask
unanimous consent to have printed in
the RECORD a ‘‘Seven Days’’ article ti-
tled, ‘‘Middlebury’s Beau Ties Collars
the Market on Dapper Neckwear.’’ It
tells the story of Beau Ties Ltd., from
its humble beginnings to now and of its
importance to Vermont’s economy and
its many satisfied customers, myself
included.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.010 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2427
April 11, 2019
SEVEN DAYS
[March 6, 2019]
MIDDLEBURY’S BEAU TIES COLLARS THE
MARKET ON DAPPER NECKWEAR
Anyone who wears a bow tie is making a
statement. It can be ‘‘I’m conservative,’’
‘‘I’m in the wedding party,’’ ‘‘I’ll be your
server this evening,’’ or ‘‘I’m intelligent and
dexterous enough to knot my own bow tie.’’
Regardless of the message, bow ties get no-
ticed, as do the people who sport them.
Not everyone can pull one off—or tie one
on. Those who wear bow ties are a rarefied
set. And for many bow tie enthusiasts
around the country, their bow tie mecca is
Beau Ties Ltd of Vermont: a modern, one-
story manufacturing facility in a Middlebury
industrial park. There, bow tie aficionados
are occasionally seen getting their pictures
taken in front of the giant polka-dotted bow
tie out front.
Never heard of Beau Ties? That’s
unsurprising in Vermont, where few people
routinely wear ties of any kind. According to
Elizabeth Smith, copresident and CEO of
Beau Ties, most of the company’s clients live
out of state and buy their products online or
through their catalogs.
But this predominantly retail business,
now in its 26th year, boasts an impressive
clientele of famous bow tie-wearing blokes:
the late popcorn entrepreneur Orville
Redenbacher, science educator Bill Nye ‘‘The
Science Guy’’ and retired ‘‘CBS News Sunday
Morning’’ host Charles Osgood, who has his
own signature line of bow ties with the com-
pany.
Beau Ties has also produced ties for the
Obama White House, Tiffany & Co., PBS, and
countless colleges, prep schools and fraternal
organizations. It’s also the official tie maker
for the U.S. House of Representatives and
the Vermont Statehouse. And its private-
label clients include fine menswear retailers
Ben Silver, Barneys New York and Brooks
Brothers.
On a reporter’s recent tour of the facility,
Smith and fellow copresident Cy Day Tall
rarely referred to their clientele as ‘‘cus-
tomers.’’ Instead, they were ‘‘our guys’’ or
‘‘our fellas.’’ While the bow tie market isn’t
huge, or exclusively male, the people who
purchase their bow ties, neckties and other
fashion accessories—cummerbunds,
cufflinks, suspenders, cravats, pocket
squares—tend to return time and again.
Often they’ll phone the company and ask to
speak to a specific employee who helped
them in the past.
‘‘In our mind, we’re a family business,’’ ex-
plained Smith, who splits management du-
ties with Tall. Smith handles customer serv-
ice and sales, while Tall is the chief mar-
keting officer and ‘‘wordsmith’’ of the cata-
log, the mainstay of their retail business.
Beau Ties’ familial feel extends to its staff,
too. Of the 30 employees, several are mother-
daughter or grandparent-grandchild pairs.
Many, including Smith, have been with Beau
Ties 20 years or more. All but three are
women. The company also hires no seasonal
help, Smith noted, so that everyone can earn
a decent wage with benefits.
Notwithstanding its reputation for formal
attire, Beau Ties is actually a casual and re-
laxed workplace, where several seamstresses
were listening to music on headphones and
joking among themselves while sewing.
Zooey, a small black pug, and Margy, an en-
ergetic Welsh corgi, enthusiastically greeted
a visiting reporter.
Beau Ties was founded in 1993 by Bill
Kenerson and his wife, Deborah Venman.
Kenerson, a native of New Haven, Conn., and
a Marine Corps veteran who attended Yale
University, moved to Vermont in 1978 to buy
the Killington Country Resort. A year later
he took a job at Simmonds Precision Prod-
ucts in Vergennes, where he worked until
1990. In 1991, then-governor Richard Snelling
tapped him to serve as commissioner of eco-
nomic development.
Though Kenerson had a strong business
background, he had no training in men’s ap-
parel, Smith said. But he was a dyed-in-the-
wool bow tie aficionado who inherited many
of his favorites from his father and grand-
father. Discouraged by the dearth of quality
ties he liked, he and Venman launched their
own bow tie business in the spring of 1993.
Two months later, they hired Vivian
LaFave, a New Haven seamstress, who set up
their shop in her basement and began cut-
ting and sewing ties from fabrics Kenerson
and Venman purchased in New York City’s
garment district. LaFave is still with the
company and considered the grand dame of
the sewing floor.
Kenerson and Venman began by marketing
just eight bow ties via a one-page circular,
which they mailed to 5,000 people; it eventu-
ally evolved into a catalog. The company
also advertised in periodicals that Kenerson
assumed would appeal to fellow bow tie
wearers, such as Smithsonian magazine and
the New Yorker.
Smith remembers the surge of business
that occurred the day after Kenerson ran an
ad on page two of the Wall Street Journal in
the late 1990s. ‘‘We couldn’t answer the
phone fast enough,’’ she recalled.
For several years, Kenerson and Venman
ran the business out of their home, said
Smith. However, the company quickly out-
grew that space.
‘‘Deb had to get up and get dressed every
morning because we had to go through their
bedroom just to get to our offices,’’ she
noted. In November 1999, Beau Ties moved
into its current building. Wanting to main-
tain the company’s homey feel, Kenerson
had it outfitted with a large kitchen, an out-
door deck, a grill and even a dog run.
Soon, the company was producing 36- to 48-
page catalogs that featured nearly two dozen
new ties per month, as well as some ancil-
lary products. The company’s website also
lists another 500 to 600 bow ties, which come
as pre-tied, clip-on or ‘‘freestyle,’’ that is,
DIY knots.
Basically, the styles fall into two cat-
egories, Smith said: the subdued patterns for
‘‘the conservative fellows’’ and the loud, bold
and bright colors for the more flamboyant
dressers. On the day of Seven Days’ visit,
seamstresses were sewing plenty of green
Celtic themes (for St. Patrick’s Day), hearts
(for Valentine’s Day), and purple, green and
gold masks (for Mardi Gras). Mostly, the fab-
rics come from China, Italy and the UK,
Smith said.
It’s worth noting that the ‘‘Ltd’’ in the
company name isn’t an aesthetic flourish
but reflects the time-sensitive availability of
its products.
‘‘Bill and Deb’s concept was to be limited,
so that people come back,’’ Smith explained.
‘‘I have to have something [new] to entice
them to buy from me every month.’’
Beau Ties continued to grow throughout
the 2000s. By September 2012, however,
Kenerson, who was facing significant health
challenges, sold the company to its current
owners: David Kramer, who lives in New
York State, and David Mutter, in California.
Though other buyers approached him, Smith
said, Kenerson insisted on finding people who
would keep the company in Vermont and run
it the same way he and his wife had.
‘‘This was Bill’s baby,’’ Smith added.
‘‘Every single person who worked here was
completely valuable to him.’’ As she noted,
Kenerson opened every piece of mail that
came in and usually answered customers
himself. A mere two months after the sale,
the ‘‘Beau’’ of Beau Ties died at the age of
81.
Though one might assume that the typical
Beau Ties customer is a stodgy, Barry Gold-
water-era conservative, Smith said that
members of the younger generation also
want to fashion one on.
Representative of the new demographic is
21-year-old Andrew Brown of Bristol, who’s
been working at Beau Ties since he was 17.
His grandmother, Barb, works there, too.
The younger Brown, a dapper youth who
sports a bow tie daily, is now the company’s
social media manager.
‘‘The bow tie wearer is the musician. He’s
the architect. He’s the fella who works in a
museum,’’ Smith said. ‘‘He’s the attorney
and the judge. He’s the young guy who wants
to wear something on ‘bow tie Friday.’ He’s
the preppy kid who wants something to wear
to the yacht club.’’
Doctors and other health care profes-
sionals tend to prefer bow ties, too. Why?
The short ties don’t drape onto their pa-
tients and spread germs, Smith explained.
Pediatricians like them because babies and
toddlers can’t grab them. In fact, Burlington
pediatrician Joe Hagan belongs to a profes-
sional group of docs from around the country
called the Pediatric Travel Club, which gets
its neckwear from Beau Ties.
Tall, who names all the ties and writes the
product descriptions, said that, when Beau
Ties first started, there were maybe five
other bow tie manufacturers in the United
States. Today, there are more than 50. To re-
main competitive, she said, Beau Ties keeps
its prices in the $45 to $49 range, though
some higher-end ties cost as much as $75.
Beau Ties is unique in another respect,
Smith added: It accepts old neckties from
customers who want them converted into
bow ties. Such ‘‘one-off’’ special orders are
yet another way to maintain customer loy-
alty.
‘‘Some guys will send in a hundred of
them,’’ Smith added. ‘‘We make an awful lot
of custom ties here.’’
Like other industries, Beau Ties enjoys
great benefits and faces challenges from
being in the Green Mountain State. Its loca-
tion far from its customer base increases the
cost of shipping. For years, the company
printed its catalogs on the East Coast until,
as Tall put it, distribution costs became ‘‘ex-
quisitely painful.’’
At the same time, Tall noted, ‘‘Vermont
always has a certain cachet, and we cer-
tainly play that up in every letter we write.’’
‘‘The core of this place is the manufac-
turing,’’ Smith added. ‘‘I don’t mean to
sound schmaltzy, but I’m the one who goes
out into the world to sell this stuff, and I’m
always so proud. I never have a product that
I don’t think is amazing. And how fortunate
am I? I get to see it get made every day.’’
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
∑ Ms. HARRIS. Mr. President, I was ab-
sent for vote No. 77 on Executive Cal-
endar No. 200, the nomination of David
Bernhardt to be Secretary of the Inte-
rior. Had I been present, I would have
voted no on the nomination.∑
f
NATIONAL LIBRARY WEEK
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I want to
take a moment to join in the celebra-
tion of National Library Week. This
year’s theme, ‘‘Libraries = Strong
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:37 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.008 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2428 April 11, 2019
Communities,’’ is fitting. Every day,
our libraries help make our commu-
nities stronger and more vibrant, as
they innovate and mobilize resources
to provide programs and services that
meet ever-evolving community needs.
That is why I have been proud to
work during my time in the Senate on
ways to support our Nation’s libraries.
Last December, on a bipartisan basis, I
secured passage and enactment of my
legislation to reauthorize and enhance
the Museum and Library Services Act.
This law authorizes Federal funding, a
relatively modest investment, through
the Institute of Museum and Library
Services, IMLS, to enable libraries and
museums to work in partnership at the
State and local levels and with non-
profits, universities, businesses, and
others to support, educate, enlighten,
and enrich our communities. For li-
braries, this law seeks to ensure they
are equipped to serve community
needs, in areas such as workforce, eco-
nomic, and business development; dig-
ital and financial literacy; critical
thinking; and new and emerging tech-
nologies. Critically, this new law en-
sures that increases in library formula
funding will be shared more broadly
across States and specifically smaller
ones like Rhode Island.
Just last week, I hosted a conversa-
tion with our State’s library profes-
sionals to follow-up on a similar round-
table I held in Rhode Island in 2016 as
I began my work on the Museum and
Library Services Act. It was inspiring
to hear the many ways in which our li-
braries are hard at work transforming
themselves to serve their diverse com-
munities.
I was glad the director of IMLS, Dr.
Kathryn Matthew, could join us for
this event. We have a special duty in
Rhode Island to elevate the work of
IMLS, which is one of my predecessor,
Senator Pell’s, many lasting gifts to
our Nation.
While the President’s budget pro-
poses to once again eliminate funding
for IMLS, I have been able to instead
secure an increase of $11 million for
this agency over the last 2 years. There
is broad, bipartisan support for the
work IMLS does, and I am continuing
to work with my colleagues to increase
funding so we can advance IMLS’s mis-
sion.
My work on libraries extends to ones
in our schools, which also need our
care and attention. Studies show that
effective school library programs,
staffed by a certified school librarian,
have a positive impact on student
achievement and educational success.
Knowing how to find and use informa-
tion are essential skills for college, ca-
reers, and life in general. A good school
library, staffed by a trained school li-
brarian, is where students develop and
hone these skills.
Yet, according to the American Li-
brary Association, while 91 percent of
the over 90,000 public and private ele-
mentary and secondary schools in the
Nation have a school library, only 61
percent have a full-time librarian. A
National Education Association report
about trends in school libraries found
that students in the highest poverty
schools were less likely to have librar-
ies at their schools and there were sig-
nificant disparities in staffing at
schools with high percentages of mi-
nority students. Access to an effective
school library program, staffed by a
certified school librarian, is an issue of
educational equity.
In 2015, I was pleased to work with
the library community and my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to en-
sure that our main Federal elementary
and secondary education law continued
to specifically address the critical eq-
uity issue of public school libraries.
Since my time in the other body, I
have worked hard to ensure Federal
support for our school libraries and I
continue to fight for increased funding
for the Innovative Approaches to Lit-
eracy, IAL, grant program authorized
in the Every Students Succeeds Act,
ESSA. IAL provides competitive
awards to school libraries, as well as
national not-for-profit organizations to
support children and families in high-
need, underserved communities. By
providing age-appropriate books, sup-
porting parental engagement pro-
grams, and reinforcing professional de-
velopment, the IAL program helps to
support literacy skills to ensure chil-
dren are best positioned for success.
I encourage all of my colleagues to
visit their local libraries and school li-
braries to see firsthand that libraries
are no longer quaint and quiet places
to find the latest books, although they
still offer plenty of that. They are com-
munity hubs providing innovative pro-
gramming and services to spark cre-
ativity, boost learning and STEM edu-
cation, promote the use of emerging
technologies, and develop new career
pathways. In sum, they are strength-
ening our communities, our States, and
our Nation.
f
VOLUNTEER RESPONDER
INCENTIVE PROTECTION ACT
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I wish
to introduce the Volunteer Responder
Incentive Protection Act with my
friend and colleague from Maryland,
Senator CARDIN, which will benefit the
brave women and men who volunteer
at our local firehouses.
Across our Nation, volunteer fire-
fighters play a critical role in helping
to ensure the safety of our commu-
nities and the well-being of our neigh-
bors. The State of Maine, for example,
has approximately 9,785 firefighters
who serve the State’s 1.3 million citi-
zens. Maine is largely a rural State,
and more than 90 percent of firefighters
are volunteers. Without these public-
spirited citizens, many smaller com-
munities would be unable to provide
firefighting and other emergency serv-
ices at all.
Often, communities seek to recruit
and retain volunteers by offering mod-
est benefits. The legislation we are in-
troducing today would support these
efforts by helping to ensure that these
nominal benefits to volunteers are not
treated as regular employee compensa-
tion.
The Volunteer Responder Incentive
Protection Act would allow commu-
nities to provide volunteer firefighters
and Emergency Medical Service, or
EMS workers, with up to $600 per year
of property tax reductions or other in-
centives, without those benefits being
subject to Federal income tax and
withholding. This would ease the ad-
ministrative burden that local depart-
ments sometimes face when they re-
ward their volunteers.
We should take care to protect our
volunteer firefighters who serve this
country with such bravery. Our legisla-
tion would help us achieve that goal,
and I urge my colleagues to join us in
supporting this bill.
f
ACCESS TO PRIMARY CARE
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that a copy of
my opening statement at the Senate
Health Education, Labor, and Pensions
Committee be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
ACCESS TO PRIMARY CARE
Mr. ALEXANDER. Dr. Lee Gross, of Flor-
ida testified last year at this Committee’s
fifth hearing on the cost of health care. He
told us that, after seven years as a primary
care doctor, he had an epiphany: too many
government mandates and insurance compa-
nies were getting between doctors and pa-
tients and making primary care more expen-
sive than it needed to be.
So in 2010, Dr. Gross created one of the
first Direct Primary Care practices. Instead
of working with insurance companies and
government programs, Dr. Gross’ patients
pay him a flat monthly fee directly: $60 a
month per adult, $25 a month for one child,
and $10 a month for each additional child.
Dr. Gross is one of more than 300,000 pri-
mary care doctors in the United States who
most of us go to see for day-to-day medical
care—receiving vaccines like the flu shot,
annual physicals, and help managing chronic
conditions, like diabetes. It is also our entry
point to coordinate additional medical care,
if, for example, we need to get our hip re-
placed or an MRI to diagnose a problem.
We heard from Dr. Brent James of the Na-
tional Academies of Medicine at our second
hearing that between 30 and 50 percent of
what we spend on health care is unnecessary.
I have asked for specific suggestions on what
the federal government can do to lower the
cost of health care for American families,
and this year, I am committed to passing
legislation based on that input to create bet-
ter outcomes and better experiences at a
lower cost.
Dr. Gross’ practice is one of about a thou-
sand similar clinics in the United States, and
is a good example of how a primary care doc-
tor can help reduce costs. The first way Dr.
Gross does this is by helping with his pa-
tients’ wellness. For $60 a month, Dr. Gross
can do EKGs and cortisone injections, man-
age chronic conditions like diabetes, asthma,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:37 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.012 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2429
April 11, 2019
and hypertension, and remove minor skin
cancers right in his office.
Second, by keeping you out of the emer-
gency room. For $60 a month, patients have
unlimited office visits, and they can also
email, text, call and use an app to contact
his office—anytime, day or night. So for ex-
ample, if you have stomach pains at 11 pm,
you could text Dr. Gross, who knows that it
might just be a side effect of a new medicine
he prescribed you.
And third, primary care is patients’ access
point to more advanced care. When Dr. Gross
refers people for additional care, he is able to
provide cost and quality information about
the different options, so his patients can
choose the best option.
For example, one of his patients with rheu-
matoid arthritis was quoted $1,800 for blood
work, but Dr. Gross was able to find a lab-
oratory to offer the blood tests for under
$100. This echoes what Adam Boehler, who
leads the Center for Medicare and Medicaid
Innovation, recently told me. He estimated
that primary care is only 3–7 percent of
health care spending but affects as much as
half of all health care spending. And as Dr.
Roizen of the Cleveland Clinic has said be-
fore this Committee, regular visits to your
primary care doctor, along with keeping
your immunizations up to date and main-
taining at least four measures of good
health, such as a healthy body mass index
and blood pressure, will help you avoid
chronic disease about 80 percent of the time.
This is important because, according to Dr.
Roizen, over 84 percent of all health care
spending is on chronic conditions like asth-
ma, diabetes, and heart disease. I believe we
can empower primary care doctors, nurse
practitioners, and physicians assistants to
go even a step further.
At our fourth hearing, we heard about how
the cost of health care is in a black box—pa-
tients have no idea how much a particular
treatment or test will end up costing. Even
if information on the cost and quality of
health care is easily accessible, patients still
have trouble comparing different health care
options.
For example, earlier this year, hospitals
began to post their prices online, as required
by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, but to the average consumer, this
information has proved to be incomprehen-
sible.
And while the data may be incomprehen-
sible today, it is a ripe opportunity for inno-
vation from private companies, like Health
Care Bluebook, a Tennessee company that
testified a hearing last fall, and non-profit
organizations to arrange the data so primary
care doctors, nurse practitioners, and physi-
cians assistants can help their patients have
better outcomes and better experiences at
lower costs.
There are other ways to lower health care
costs through expanded access to primary
care. Dr. Gross’ direct primary care clinic is
one example. Another is community health
centers, which we talked about at our last
hearing and that are where 27 million Ameri-
cans go for their primary care. And employ-
ers are increasingly taking an active role in
their employees’ health and in the cost of
health care.
One of our new committee members, Sen-
ator Braun, was an employer of a thousand
people and was aggressive about helping his
employees reduce health care costs. Like pri-
mary care doctors, more good data could
help employers like Senator Braun more ef-
fectively lower health care costs. Employers
are also employing a doctor on-site so em-
ployees don’t have to take time off of work
to see a primary care doctor.
On-site primary care makes it easier to
keep employees healthy by helping to man-
age a chronic condition or get a referral to a
specialist. Today, I am interested in hearing
more about specific recommendations to im-
prove access to affordable primary care.
f
ACCESS TO CARE: HEALTH CEN-
TERS AND PROVIDERS IN UN-
DERSERVED COMMUNITIES
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that a copy of
my opening statement at the Senate
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions Committee be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
ACCESS TO CARE: HEALTH CENTERS AND
PROVIDERS IN UNDERSERVED COMMUNITIES
Mr. ALEXANDER. This is the first hearing
of the new Congress so let me take a few
minutes to talk about what we hope to ac-
complishment these next two years.
Number one, reducing health care costs.
And number two, making sure a college de-
gree is worth students’ time and money.
On health care costs, this Committee has
held five hearings on reducing the cost of
health care. Testimony from Dr. Brent
James, a member of the National Academy
of Medicine, said that up to half of health
care spending is unnecessary.
That startled me and it should startle the
American people. That is a massive burden
on American families, businesses, and state
and federal budgets.
I sent a letter to health experts, including
the witnesses at our five hearings, asking for
specific recommendations to reduce health
care costs. I’d like to encourage anyone with
a specific recommendation to submit your
comment by March 1 to
lowerhealthcarecosts@help.senate.gov.
A second priority is updating the Higher
Education Act to ensure that the expense of
a college education is worth it for students.
The last time we seriously addressed higher
education was in 2007. A lot has happened
since then.
In 2007, there was no iPhone. A micro-
blogging company named Twitter had just
gained its own separate platform and started
to scale globally. And Amazon released
something called Kindle. In a new book, New
York Times columnist Tom Friedman puts
his finger on the year 2007 as ‘‘the techno-
logical inflection point.’’ So we need to take
a look at this federal support for higher edu-
cation that affects 20 million students and
6000 universities, colleges, and technical in-
stitutions. And our goal includes simplifying
the federal aid application; a fairer way for
students to repay their loans; and a new sys-
tem of accountability for colleges.
I will be working on these priorities with
Ranking Member Patty Murray, with mem-
bers of the HELP Committee, and other Sen-
ators interested reaching a result on low-
ering health care costs and updating the
Higher Education Act.
We hope to complete our work on both of
these things in the first six months of this
year.
And in addition, in these next few months,
we need to reauthorize the Older Americans
Act, which supports the organization and de-
livery of social and nutrition services to
older adults and their caregivers and reau-
thorize the Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act, important legislation that
funds major grant programs that provide a
social services response to issues of child
abuse and neglect.
And today’s topic—extending federal fund-
ing for community health centers, as well as
four other federal health programs, which
are all set to expire at the end of this fiscal
year.
Community health centers actually fit
into a larger topic of great interest to this
Committee, which is primary care. There are
more than 300,000 primary care doctors in
the United States, according to the Amer-
ican Medical Association. This is the doctor
that most of us go to see for day-to-day med-
ical care—an annual physical, flu vaccine, or
help managing a chronic condition like dia-
betes. It is our access point to additional
medical care, and can refer us to specialists,
if, for example, we need to get our hip re-
placed or a MRI.
Adam Boehler, who leads the Center for
Medicare and Medicaid Innovation, esti-
mated that primary care is only 2–7 percent
of health care spending but could help to im-
pact as much as half of all health care spend-
ing.
We will be having a hearing next week on
how primary care can help control health
care costs. Today, we are talking about a
prime example of primary care: 27 million
Americans receive their primary care and
other services at community health centers.
For example, in Tennessee, after Lewis
County’s only hospital closed, the closest
emergency room for its 12,000 residents was
30 minutes away. The old hospital building
was turned into the Lewis Health Center, a
community health center which operates as
something between a clinic and full hospital.
Lewis Health Center estimates they can
deal with about 90 percent of patients that
walk in the door. The center has a full lab-
oratory to run tests, can perform X-rays or
give IVs, and keeps an ambulance ready to
take patients to a partnering hospital if they
need more care. Because the Lewis Health
Center is a community health center, they
charge patients based on a sliding scale
which means more people have access to and
can afford health care.
Community health centers like Lewis
Health Center are one way American fami-
lies can have access to affordable health care
close to home. This includes a wide range of
health care, including preventive care, help
managing chronic conditions like asthma or
high blood pressure, vaccines, and prenatal
care. There are about 1,400 federally-funded
health centers that provide outpatient care
to approximately 27 million people, includ-
ing 400,000 Tennesseans, at about 12,000 sites
across the United States. These other loca-
tions could be a mobile clinic or at a home-
less shelter or school.
Community health centers have also been
an important part of combating the opioid
crisis that has impacted virtually every com-
munity across the country.
Last year, the Department of Health and
Human Services provided over $350 million in
funding specifically to support community
health centers providing care for Americans
in need of substance use disorder or mental
health services.
And in 2017, 65,000 Americans received
medication-assisted treatment for substance
use disorders at a community health center.
These centers accept private insurance,
Medicare and Medicaid, and charge patients
based on a sliding fee scale so that those who
are in need of care receive it, regardless of
ability to pay.
Community health centers also receive
federal funding to help cover their costs. In
Fiscal Year 2019, these centers received $4
billion in mandatory funding and $1.6 billion
in discretionary funding. Congress has to act
by the end of September to make sure com-
munity health centers continue to receive
this federal funding and keep their doors
open.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:37 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.006 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2430 April 11, 2019
Two weeks ago, Senator Murray and I took
the first step by introducing legislation that
will extend funding for community health
centers for five years at $4 billion a year in
mandatory funding.
The legislation also extends funding for
four additional federal health programs set
to expire in September: the Teaching Health
Center Graduate Medical Education Pro-
gram; National Health Service Corps; Spe-
cial Diabetes Program; and Special Diabetes
Program for Indians.
Today we will hear about how the commu-
nity health centers program is working and
how to ensure 27 million Americans can con-
tinue to have access to quality health care
closer to their homes and at a more afford-
able cost.
Community health centers, and hospitals
across the country, rely on a well-trained
health care workforce.
Two federally funded workforce programs,
which train doctors and nurses, expire this
year.
The first is the Teaching Health Center
Graduate Medical Education Program that
helps train primary care doctors and dentists
in community-based settings, often at com-
munity health centers.
And second, the National Health Service
Corps, which provides scholarships and loan
repayment for health care professionals who
go to work in rural or underserved areas.
More than half of these doctors choose to
work at one of the 12,000 community health
centers and affiliated sites across the coun-
try as part of their service requirement.
I look forward to hearing from the wit-
nesses today and learning more about all
three of these programs, and discussing how
we can work together to ensure funding for
these programs is extended so Americans can
continue to have access to affordable health
care closer to home.
f
REMEMBERING JIM MOODY
Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, today
I rise to recognize the career and leg-
acy of former U.S. Representative Jim
Moody, who passed away on March 22,
2019. Born James Powers Moody, he
was an influential leader in Demo-
cratic politics in Wisconsin in the 1970s
and 1980s.
Born in 1935 in Virginia, Jim spent
much of his childhood abroad. His fa-
ther was an official with the American
Red Cross, and his mother worked in
relief efforts for refugees. Jim was
heavily influenced by his parents’
international focus, and he developed a
passion for foreign cultures and global
affairs at an early age. He attended
school in Shanghai before graduating
from an English-language high school
in Athens, Greece.
After graduating from Haverford Col-
lege in Pennsylvania in 1957, Jim
worked in the former Yugoslavia and
Iran with CARE, an international hu-
manitarian organization. He joined the
Peace Corps in the organization’s early
days and established the first Peace
Corps programs in Pakistan and Ban-
gladesh. He spoke many languages, in-
cluding Greek, Farsi, Croatian, Span-
ish and French.
Jim received a master’s degree it
public administration from Harvard
University’s John F. Kennedy’s School
of Government in 1967 and a doctorate
in economics from the University of
California at Berkeley in 1973. Eugene
McCarthy’s 1968 Presidential campaign
inspired Jim’s exploration of politics.
He was elected to the Wisconsin State
Assembly in 1976 and to the State Sen-
ate in 1978. With his mother at his side
as his campaign manager, he ran for
and was elected to the U.S. House of
Representatives in 1982 from Wiscon-
sin’s 5th Congressional District in
southeastern Wisconsin, where he
served five terms.
Moody was a progressive voice in
Congress in the spirit of Wisconsin’s
greatest progressive, Robert M. ‘‘Fight-
ing Bob’’ La Follette. He was an early
advocate of gay rights and wilderness
preservation. In 1991, he authored a fed-
erally funded universal health care bill
to cover the 37 million Americans who
lacked insurance at the time, including
550,000 Wisconsinites. He proposed pay-
ing for the coverage with higher taxes
on corporations and wealthy individ-
uals.
After an unsuccessful U.S. Senate
race in 1992, he returned to his passion
for international affairs. In 1995, he be-
came the chief financial officer of the
United Nation’s International Fund for
Agricultural Development, which fo-
cuses on improving the living stand-
ards in the agricultural sectors of de-
veloping countries. He served on the
board of the National Iranian Amer-
ican Council and as an elections ob-
server in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and
the Ukraine. His post congressional ca-
reer also included work as professor, an
economist and a financial adviser
Jim Moody took his role as a public
servant very seriously. It was a respon-
sibility and an honor that he carried
proudly. He cared deeply about the eco-
nomic stability and well-being of his
constituents and of people around the
globe. He will be fondly remembered as
one of Wisconsin’s great progressive
leaders.
f
REMEMBERING JAMES C. FOX
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, Judge
James C. Fox, who served as a Federal
District Court Judge for the Eastern
District of North Carolina for more
than 35 years, passed away Saturday,
March 23, 2019, at the age of 90.
Judge Fox was born on November 6,
1928, in Atchison, KS. As a young boy,
his family moved to Greensboro, NC,
where he grew up. Judge Fox graduated
from the University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill in 1950 and married
Katharine deRosset Rhett on December
30, 1950. Judge Fox served as a corporal
in the United States Army Reserve
from 1951–1959.
Judge Fox attended law school at the
University of North Carolina School of
Law, where he graduated in 1957 with
highest honors. Subsequently, he took
a clerkship with Judge Donnell Gilliam
who predated Judge Fox as a U.S. Dis-
trict Court Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of North Carolina. Judge Fox en-
tered private practice in 1959 with the
firm Carter & Murchison in New Han-
over County, NC, where he practiced
for 20 years. While in private practice,
Judge Fox served as the county attor-
ney for New Hanover County for 13
years.
President Ronald Reagan nominated
Judge Fox to serve as a U.S. District
Court Judge for the Eastern District of
North Carolina on September 13, 1982.
Judge Fox served the residents of
North Carolina for more than 35 years.
He served as chief judge from 1990 to
1997 and assumed senior status on Jan-
uary 31, 2001. Even after assuming sen-
ior status, Judge Fox maintained a full
caseload until he retired in 2017. Judge
Fox was known as courteous but firm
and was widely respected by everyone
who came into his courtroom.
In addition to his decades of public
service, Judge Fox served as director of
the law alumni association for the Uni-
versity of North Carolina in 1964 and
president of the law foundation at the
University of North Carolina from 1977
to 1979. Judge Fox served on numerous
civic boards, including the University
of North Carolina Board of Visitors,
the Boy Scouts, the United Way, the
Family Service Society, Opportunities,
Inc., Davis Healthcare, and the Chil-
dren’s Home Society. Judge Fox was
also an active member of Ducks Unlim-
ited. He loved the outdoors and spent
significant time and resources on con-
servation management efforts.
Most importantly, Judge Fox was a
devoted husband, father, and grand-
father. I am grateful to Judge Fox for
his service and to his family for shar-
ing his time with the residents of
North Carolina. He will be greatly
missed.
f
TRIBUTE TO DIANA MILETE
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I rise
today to honor the career of Diana
Milete. Diana has spent her life in pub-
lic service and has made a difference in
the lives of tens of thousands of Ohio-
ans.
Diana came to my congressional of-
fice when I was very first elected to the
House and has been with us ever since,
through all my time in the House and
my entire 12 years in the Senate. When
she retires at the end of this month,
she will have spent more than three
decades in Federal service.
Helping Ohioans is one of the most
important things our office does, and
as the head of our constituent services
program, her work has touched the
lives of more than 59,000 Ohioans.
These were seniors trying to navigate
Federal Agencies to get the Medicare
and Social Security benefits they
earned over a lifetime of work. They
were veterans and their families trying
to secure medals and VA benefits. They
were Ohio workers trying to claim the
tax credits they earned.
Diana went above and beyond the
call of duty for so many Ohioans.
I remember 21⁄2 years ago, right be-
fore the Fourth of July, our office re-
ceived a request for assistance from a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.013 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2431
April 11, 2019
man in Cleveland named Danny Sala-
zar, who was trying to arrange visas for
his family to visit him from the Do-
minican Republic. You may recognize
the name Danny Salazar—he was the
Cleveland Indians’ star pitcher, and the
reason he wanted his family to come
visit was because he had been selected
to play in the MLB All-Star Game in
San Diego. Diana got right on the case,
and, working with other members of
our team, she was able to make sure
Danny’s family got visa appointments
in time for the game. Danny’s mother
got to come watch the game with her
son, and he sent our office a picture of
him and his family at Petco Park—a
picture that hung on Diana’s wall.
Of course Diana’s efforts weren’t re-
stricted to Major League Baseball
players. Our office helps any Ohioan
who needs it, and we have received
piles of letters over the years from
Ohioans writing to thank Diana for all
her hard work for them.
After Diana helped her with her So-
cial Security claim, a woman from
Elyria wrote: ‘‘Diana, you are an angel
in disguise. You literally saved my life
and ended my despair.’’ Another
woman from Avon wrote to Diana,
‘‘Many thanks for doing the near im-
possible!’’
Diana didn’t stop with helping indi-
vidual Ohioans. Over the years she
worked on several cases related to ALS
patients, who faced a mandatory wait-
ing period of two years before they
could receive disability benefits. Trag-
ically, ALS is a fast-progressing dis-
ease, and many patients pass away be-
fore the 2-year waiting period is over.
Diana brought the issue to our office’s
attention, and our legislative staff
went to work. I joined my colleagues in
the House and Senate to introduce leg-
islation to fix this, and we eventually
got it done. We reduced the 2-year
waiting period to 5 months. This year,
as Diana’s time with our office comes
to a close, I have joined a bipartisan
group of colleagues to introduce legis-
lation to eliminate the waiting period
for ALS patients all together. That is
how our office works best—we talk to
Ohioans, dedicated workers in Ohio
like Diana listen to their stories and
bring their issues to the attention of
our office, and our legislative staff
works on a solution.
We are all going to miss Diana when
she retires at the end of this month,
but she has earned a long and happy re-
tirement spent with her family in Lo-
rain. Diana’s impact on this office will
be felt long after she is gone. She has
built one of the best casework oper-
ations in the country, and I know her
team is going to carry on Diana’s leg-
acy, serving Ohioans with compassion
and dedication for years to come.
Diana, thank you for your service to
the people of Ohio.
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
REMEMBERING EVERETT CHAVEZ
∑ Mr. HEINRICH. Mr. President, it is
an honor to remember and recognize
the life of Governor Everett Chavez.
Governor Chavez devoted his life to
the people of Santo Domingo Pueblo
and to building a strong future for the
next generation of leaders in Indian
Country.
Chavez served three terms as the
Governor of Kewa Pueblo, also known
as Santo Domingo.
Governor Chavez also served as the
superintendent of the Santa Fe Indian
School, mentoring Native youth and
setting high expectations for their edu-
cational achievements.
He was a proud graduate of the Uni-
versity of New Mexico, where he re-
ceived a degree in electrical engineer-
ing.
Thanks to his dedication, many stu-
dents received scholarships for college
and put their education to work in
their communities.
Governor Chavez was powerful at in-
fluencing policy to benefit Indian
Country at the highest levels of gov-
ernment.
Governor Chavez served on President
Obama’s advisory committee for Na-
tive American and Alaskan Natives.
He worked with New Mexico Sec-
retary of State Maggie Toulouse Oliver
to increase voter registration and elec-
tion participation in Native commu-
nities.
He was constantly building partner-
ships and implementing major initia-
tives in his community.
He was hard at work serving others
until the very end.
New Mexico has lost one of our great-
est leaders.
My thoughts are with Governor
Chavez’s family.
His legacy will endure in all of those
he inspired through his selfless ac-
tions.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO CHARLES ‘‘CHUCK’’
JOHNSON
∑ Ms. ROSEN. Mr. President, today I
have the privilege of recognizing the
distinguished service of Commander
Charles ‘‘Chuck’’ Johnson, a highly re-
spected Korean and Vietnam war vet-
eran. Having enlisted in the U.S. Army
at age 16 before completing his high
school education, Chuck served his
country honorably for 21 years on the
front lines of combat in both Korea and
Vietnam.
Chuck’s commitment to serve did not
waver after returning home, and he has
spent much of his civilian life advo-
cating and caring for Nevada’s vet-
erans, fighting to ensure that their
service is never forgotten. Commander
of the Southern Nevada chapter of the
Korean War Veterans Association,
Chuck played a critical role in estab-
lishing a Korean War Memorial at the
Veterans Memorial Cemetery in Boul-
der City, NV, which stands as a testa-
ment to the more than 9,000 Korean
war veterans buried there. Chuck per-
sisted for over 24 years to see this
project come to fruition, and as a com-
munity, we are beyond grateful for his
dedication to this worthy cause.
Known as a leader and community
servant throughout southern Nevada,
Chuck was most recently recognized as
News 3 Las Vegas’s Veteran of the
Month. Throughout the month of
March, we saluted Chuck for his tire-
less work to make our community,
State, and country a better, safer, and
more just place. I am grateful for Com-
mander Johnson’s sacrifice and patri-
otism and look forward to observing
his continued work on behalf of vet-
erans in Nevada and beyond.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO JESSICA HEINZ
∑ Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, today I
recognize Jessica Heinz, an intern in
my Washington, DC, office, for all the
hard work she has done on behalf of
myself, my staff, and the State of
South Dakota.
Jessica is a graduate of the Univer-
sity of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
She is currently pursuing her master of
science degree in terrorism and secu-
rity policy at American University.
Jessica is a dedicated and diligent
worker who has been devoted to get-
ting the most out of her internship ex-
perience and has been a true asset to
the office.
I extend my sincere thanks and ap-
preciation to Jessica for all of the fine
work she has done and wish her contin-
ued success in the years to come.∑
f
RECOGNIZING VERMONT MEALS
ON WHEELS
∑ Mr. SANDERS. Mr. President, I
would like to recognize the tremendous
work of Vermont’s Meals on Wheels
programs. Last year, Meals on Wheels
prepared and home-delivered nearly
800,000 freshly cooked nutritious meals
to more than 5,700 Vermont seniors. In
our State the second oldest in the Na-
tion, these meals are essential to help-
ing ensure that older Vermonters, par-
ticularly those living in rural areas,
have access to adequate nutrition.
These meals are made possible by the
hard work of hundreds of dedicated
professionals and volunteers at
Vermont’s five Area Agencies on
Aging, local Meals on Wheels pro-
viders, and senior centers. From the
chefs who prepare the nutritious meals,
to the senior center staff that coordi-
nate deliveries, to the volunteer driv-
ers who deliver the meals, Vermont’s
Meals on Wheels network is a critically
important part of our social safety net
for older Vermonters.
Of course, Meals on Wheels is much
more than just delivering a nutritious
meal, as important as that is. Volun-
teer drivers also provide invaluable so-
cial interaction and companionship for
the seniors they visit, which goes a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.019 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2432 April 11, 2019
long way to combat the effects of isola-
tion that many older Vermonters face,
especially if they live alone or in a
more rural community. Without this
social interaction, seniors are more
likely to have feelings of loneliness and
depression, which puts them at higher
risk for dementia, chronic disease,
falls, and hospitalization.
The regular visits by Meals on
Wheels volunteers serve another pur-
pose, as well. The drivers check to
make sure that the seniors are safe, se-
cure, and warm. They know each per-
son they visit and recognize imme-
diately if something doesn’t seem
right. It is no exaggeration to say that
Meals on Wheels volunteers have avert-
ed tragedies and even saved lives after
finding seniors who have fallen or are
in the midst of a medical emergency.
Last month was ‘‘March for Meals,’’
when Meals on Wheels programs across
the country commemorate the March
1972 signing into law of an amendment
to the Older Americans Act of 1965 to
create a national nutrition program for
seniors 60 years and older. As we often
do, many of my Vermont staff rode
along with Meals on Wheels volunteers
across the State to see the wonderful
work they are doing and highlight the
importance of Meals on Wheels in the
lives of thousands of Vermonters.
Let me end by thanking the Meals on
Wheels staff and volunteers in Vermont
for their remarkable work.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
In executive session the Presiding Of-
ficer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
and a withdrawal which were referred
to the appropriate committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate
proceedings.)
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 11:24 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bill, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 1644. An act to restore the open inter-
net order of the Federal Communications
Commission.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bills were read the first
time:
H.R. 1644. An act to restore the open inter-
net order of the Federal Communications
Commission.
H.R. 1957. An act to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to modernize and im-
prove the Internal Revenue Service, and for
other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–969. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting the re-
port of three (3) officers authorized to wear
the insignia of the grade of vice admiral in
accordance with title 10, United States Code,
section 777a, this will not cause the Depart-
ment to exceed the number of frocked offi-
cers authorized; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–970. A communication from the Senior
Official performing the duties of the Under
Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readi-
ness), transmitting the report of an officer
authorized to wear the insignia of the grade
of rear admiral (lower half) in accordance
with title 10, United States Code, section 777,
this will not cause the Department to exceed
the number of frocked officers authorized; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–971. A communication from the Chief
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension of Community
Eligibility; West Virginia: Fairmont, City of,
Marion County’’ ((44 CFR Part 64) (Docket
No. FEMA–2019–0003)) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on April 10,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–972. A communication from the Regula-
tion Policy Development Coordinator, Office
of Regulation Policy and Management, De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Release of Information from Department of
Veterans Affairs’ Records’’ (RIN2900–AQ27)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on April 5, 2019; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
EC–973. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘FY 2018
Report to Congress: Review of Medicare’s
Program for Oversight of Accrediting Orga-
nizations and the Clinical Laboratory Im-
provement Validation Program’’; to the
Committees on Finance; and Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–974. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Regulations and Policy Management
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Implementing the Food and
Drug Administration Food Safety Mod-
ernization Act; Technical Amendment’’
(RINs 0910–AG10, 0910–AG35, 0910–AG36) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
April 5, 2019; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–975. A communication from the Deputy
Director, Office of National Security, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Privacy Act; Implementa-
tion’’ (RIN0991–AC10) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on April 10,
2019; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–976. A communication from the Chief
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Factors Considered When
Evaluating a Governor’s Request for Indi-
vidual Assistance for a Major Disaster’’
(RIN1660–AA83) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on April 10, 2019; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–977. A communication from the Deputy
General Counsel, Office of General Counsel,
Small Business Administration, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Civil Monetary Penalties Inflation
Adjustments’’ (RIN3245–AH03) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on April
10, 2019; to the Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petitions and memo-
rials were laid before the Senate and
were referred or ordered to lie on the
table as indicated:
POM–30. A resolution adopted by the Town
Commission of Lauderdale-By-The-Sea, Flor-
ida expressing the Commission’s opposition
to legislation prohibiting local regulation of
vacation rentals; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
POM–31. A resolution adopted by the Board
of Supervisors of the City and County of San
Francisco, California, relative to new Title X
regulations; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
POM–32. A petition from a citizen of the
State of Ohio relative to the Ohio State Su-
preme Court; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Ms. SMITH (for herself and Mr. CAS-
SIDY):
S. 1140. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act with respect to the treatment
under section 351(k)(7) of such Act (relating
to exclusivity for reference products) of cer-
tain products deemed to have a biological
product license pursuant to section 7002 of
the Biologics Price Competition and Innova-
tion Act of 2009; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. STABENOW (for herself and
Mr. BURR):
S. 1141. A bill to provide predictability and
certainty in the tax law, create jobs, and en-
courage investment; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself, Mr.
GARDNER, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr. BENNET,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. SMITH, Mr. REED, Mr.
BOOKER, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Ms.
HASSAN):
S. 1142. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide tax credits for
energy storage technologies, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and
Mr. PETERS):
S. 1143. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to improve testing and inspec-
tions for lead on military installations, in
Department of Defense housing and schools,
and in military dependent children, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.061 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2433
April 11, 2019
By Mr. RUBIO:
S. 1144. A bill to amend the Biggert-Waters
Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012 to im-
prove mapping under the National Flood In-
surance Program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
By Mr. SHELBY:
S. 1145. A bill to repeal the current Inter-
nal Revenue Code and replace it with a flat
tax, thereby guaranteeing economic growth
and fairness for all Americans; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. 1146. A bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to require the Assistant Sec-
retary for Aging to identify and disseminate
best practices for the National Family Care-
giver Support program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Mr. LEAHY, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. REED, Mr.
CARPER, Ms. STABENOW, Ms. CANT-
WELL, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. CARDIN,
Mr. SANDERS, Mr. BROWN, Mr. CASEY,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. TESTER, Mr.
UDALL, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. WARNER,
Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. BENNET, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. COONS, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. MURPHY, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
HEINRICH, Mr. KING, Mr. KAINE, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. BOOKER,
Mr. PETERS, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms.
HASSAN, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Ms. SMITH, Mr. JONES, and
Ms. ROSEN):
S. 1147. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to provide for ad-
ditional disclosure requirements for corpora-
tions, labor organizations, Super PACs and
other entities, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Rules and Administration.
By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Mrs.
SHAHEEN):
S. 1148. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to require the Administrator of
the Federal Aviation Administration to give
preferential consideration to individuals who
have successfully completed air traffic con-
troller training and veterans when hiring air
traffic control specialists; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. ROB-
ERTS, and Mr. THUNE):
S. 1149. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make permanent the de-
duction for qualified business income; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr.
SASSE, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. CRAMER,
Ms. ERNST, and Mr. LANKFORD):
S. 1150. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a child tax cred-
it for pregnant moms with respect to their
unborn children; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. SCOTT of Florida (for himself
and Mr. RUBIO):
S. 1151. A bill to prohibit contracting with
persons that have business operations with
the Maduro regime, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr.
COTTON):
S. 1152. A bill to provide for the transfer of
administrative jurisdiction over certain par-
cels of Federal land in Arlington, Virginia,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr.
BRAUN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, and Mrs.
FISCHER):
S. 1153. A bill to explicitly make unauthor-
ized access to Department of Education in-
formation technology systems and the mis-
use of identification devices issued by the
Department of Education a criminal act; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mrs.
BLACKBURN):
S. 1154. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to establish an advisory com-
mittee on the implementation by the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs of an electronic
health record; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mrs.
CAPITO, and Mr. KENNEDY):
S. 1155. A bill to terminate the prohibitions
on the exportation and importation of nat-
ural gas, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr.
MORAN, and Mr. REED):
S. 1156. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to require the Secretary of each
military department to develop resilience
plans for installations of the Department of
Defense, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr.
KAINE):
S. 1157. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to establish a scholarship
program for educators of rural students and
provide for loan forgiveness for rural edu-
cators, to amend the Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education Act of 1965 to provide pro-
fessional development grants for rural ele-
mentary schools and secondary schools, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. TESTER:
S. 1158. A bill to establish a 5-year ban on
individuals appointed to Executive Schedule
positions and Members of Congress engaging
in lobbying activities at the Federal level; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI, and Mr. CASEY):
S. 1159. A bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to establish the Office of
Inclusivity and Sexual Health and a rural
outreach grant program carried out by that
Office, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Ms. SMITH:
S. 1160. A bill to amend the Child Abuse
Prevention and Treatment Act to increase
support for mental health; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr.
UDALL):
S. 1161. A bill to support the education of
Indian children; to the Committee on Indian
Affairs.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Ms. ERNST,
Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. CRAMER, and
Mr. BRAUN):
S. 1162. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make permanent the in-
dividual tax provisions of the tax reform law,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Ms. STABE-
NOW, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. GARDNER, Mr.
KING, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. MENENDEZ,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, and Mr. RISCH):
S. 1163. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for an exclusion
for assistance provided to participants in
certain veterinary student loan repayment
or forgiveness programs; to the Committee
on Finance.
By Mrs. HYDE–SMITH (for herself,
Mrs. CAPITO, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr.
WICKER, and Mr. DAINES):
S. 1164. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit black market adop-
tion of children, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. LANKFORD, and Mr.
CARPER):
S. 1165. A bill to clarify responsibilities re-
lated to unaccompanied alien children, to
provide additional protections and tracking
mechanisms for such children, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself and
Ms. BALDWIN):
S. 1166. A bill to direct the Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce for Communications and
Information to make grants for the estab-
lishment or expansion of internet exchange
facilities, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Mr.
KING, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
Ms. SMITH, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. REED, Ms. WARREN, and
Mr. WYDEN):
S. 1167. A bill to require the Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce for Communications and
Information to establish a State Digital Eq-
uity Capacity Grant Program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Mr.
LANKFORD, and Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina):
S. 1168. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to ensure campus access at
public institutions of higher education for
religious groups; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. CASSIDY, and Mr. BEN-
NET):
S. 1169. A bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to cit-
izen petitions; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr. ALEX-
ANDER, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. CORNYN,
Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. BRAUN, Mr. BLUNT,
Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. INHOFE, Ms.
MCSALLY, Mr. THUNE, Mr. SASSE, Mr.
ROMNEY, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
GRASSLEY, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina,
Ms. ERNST, Mr. PERDUE, Mr. WICKER,
Ms. MURKOWSKI, Mr. DAINES, Mr.
LANKFORD, and Mr. GRAHAM):
S. 1170. A bill to amend the Employee Re-
tirement Income Security Act of 1974 to es-
tablish additional criteria for determining
when employers may join together in a
group or association of employers that will
be treated as an employer under section 3(5)
of such Act for purposes of sponsoring a
group health plan, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Ms.
WARREN):
S. 1171. A bill to suspend the current com-
pensation packages for all officers of Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself, Mr.
REED, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. SMITH, Mr.
BOOKER, Ms. WARREN, Mr. BROWN,
and Mr. CARDIN):
S. 1172. A bill to require full funding of
part A of title I of the Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education Act of 1965 and the Indi-
viduals with Disabilities Education Act; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr.
ALEXANDER):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.023 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2434 April 11, 2019
S. 1173. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to reauthorize the Emergency
Medical Services for Children program; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and Mr.
MERKLEY):
S. 1174. A bill to provide that 12 weeks of
leave made available to a Federal employee
shall be paid leave, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself and
Mr. KAINE):
S. 1175. A bill to improve the public service
loan forgiveness program; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr.
BROWN):
S. 1176. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to promote the matricula-
tion, and increase in the graduation rates, of
individuals with disabilities within higher
education; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself, Mr.
SULLIVAN, and Mr. KING):
S. 1177. A bill to establish a congression-
ally chartered seaway development corpora-
tion in the Arctic, consistent with cus-
tomary international law, with the intention
of uniting Arctic nations in a cooperative
Arctic shipping union, where voluntary col-
lective maritime shipping fees will help fund
the infrastructural and environmental de-
mands of safe and reliable shipping in the re-
gion; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. MERKLEY,
and Ms. SMITH):
S. 1178. A bill to require aircraft manufac-
turers to offer or provide non-required safety
enhancing equipment of an aircraft without
additional charge to an air carrier, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself, Mr.
SCHATZ, and Mr. SULLIVAN):
S. 1179. A bill to amend the Arctic Re-
search and Policy Act of 1984 to modify the
membership of the Arctic Research Commis-
sion, to establish an Arctic Executive Steer-
ing Committee, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Ms. CANTWELL, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mrs. MURRAY, Ms. SMITH, Mr.
TESTER, and Ms. WARREN):
S. 1180. A bill to extend the full Federal
medical assistance percentage to urban In-
dian organizations; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Ms. HASSAN (for herself and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. 1181. A bill to amend the Child Abuse
Prevention and Treatment Act to provide for
better protections for children raised in kin-
ship families outside of the foster care sys-
tem; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mrs. HYDE-SMITH:
S. 1182. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
201 West Cherokee Street in Brookhaven,
Mississippi, as the ‘‘Deputy Donald William
Durr, Corporal Zach Moak, and Patrolman
James White Memorial Post Office Building’’
; to the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. MORAN):
S. 1183. A bill to establish an energy stor-
age and microgrid grant and technical assist-
ance program; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Mr. RUBIO:
S. 1184. A bill to reform the inspection
process of housing assisted by the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. LEAHY:
S. 1185. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to disallow any deduction
for punitive damages, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. COLLINS, Ms. CANT-
WELL, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. WYDEN, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. KAINE, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr. COONS, and
Mr. BOOKER):
S. 1186. A bill to promote democracy and
human rights in Burma, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND:
S. 1187. A bill to prevent childhood expo-
sure to chlorpyrifos through certain school
meal programs; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. SUL-
LIVAN, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. GARDNER, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, and Mr. PERDUE):
S. 1188. A bill to promote United States-
Mongolia trade by authorizing duty-free
treatment for certain imports from Mon-
golia, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
MENENDEZ):
S. 1189. A bill to require the Secretary of
State to determine whether the Russian Fed-
eration should be designated as a state spon-
sor of terrorism and whether Russian-spon-
sored armed entities in Ukraine should be
designated as foreign terrorist organizations;
to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself and Mrs.
SHAHEEN):
S. 1190. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for payments
for certain rural health clinic and Federally
qualified health center services furnished to
hospice patients under the Medicare pro-
gram; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr.
TESTER, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. JONES, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr. DAINES,
and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 1191. A bill to reauthorize section 340H of
the Public Health Service Act to continue to
encourage the expansion, maintenance, and
establishment of approved graduate medical
residency programs at qualified teaching
health centers, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. BENNET, Mr. CARPER, Mr.
BROWN, and Ms. CORTEZ MASTO):
S. 1192. A bill to set minimum standards
for tax return preparers; to the Committee
on Finance.
By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. WARNER, Mr. KAINE, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, and Mr. BROWN):
S. 1193. A bill to amend the Surface Mining
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to ex-
tend the period during which certain rec-
lamation fees are required to be paid; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. UDALL, Mr.
MARKEY, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. BOOKER, and
Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 1194. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to establish a free on-line
tax preparation and filing service and pro-
grams that allow taxpayers to access third-
party provided tax return information; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr.
DAINES, Mr. TESTER, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. SCHUMER,
Mr. CRAMER, Mr. BROWN, Mr. WYDEN,
Mr. JONES, Ms. MURKOWSKI, Ms.
ROSEN, Ms. SINEMA, Mr. BENNET, Ms.
CANTWELL, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
HOEVEN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. ROUNDS,
Mr. COONS, Mr. GARDNER, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. BOOZMAN, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. SCHATZ, Mr. UDALL, Ms. SMITH,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. RUBIO, and Mr.
MENENDEZ):
S. 1195. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify presumption relating
to the exposure of certain veterans who
served in the vicinity of the Republic of
Vietnam, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself and Mr.
JOHNSON):
S. 1196. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
1715 Linnerud Drive in Sun Prairie, Wis-
consin, as the ‘‘Fire Captain Cory Barr Post
Office Building’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. MARKEY:
S. 1197. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to establish a tax credit for
construction of new all-electric homes; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
WICKER, and Mr. LEAHY):
S. 1198. A bill to ensure that significantly
more students graduate college with the
international knowledge and experience es-
sential for success in today’s global economy
through the establishment of the Senator
Paul Simon Study Abroad Program in the
Department of Education; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself and Mr.
BURR):
S. 1199. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to revise and extend the poison
center network program; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
GARDNER, Ms. ROSEN, Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI, Mr. BENNET, Mr. SULLIVAN,
Ms. HARRIS, Mr. PAUL, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. KING, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr. WYDEN, Ms.
WARREN, Ms. HIRONO, and Mr.
CRAMER):
S. 1200. A bill to create protections for de-
pository institutions that provide financial
services to cannabis-related legitimate busi-
nesses and service providers for such busi-
nesses, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Ms.
MURKOWSKI, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
CRAMER, and Mr. DAINES):
S. 1201. A bill to amend the fossil energy
research and development provisions of the
Energy Policy Act of 2005 to enhance fossil
fuel technology, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. 1202. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for a perma-
nent Independence at Home medical practice
program under the Medicare program; to the
Committee on Finance.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.025 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2435
April 11, 2019
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Mr.
KAINE, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
DURBIN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Mr. BOOKER, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. HASSAN, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. SANDERS, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. BENNET, Mr. CASEY, and Ms.
ROSEN):
S. 1203. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 in order to improve the
public service loan forgiveness program, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. KAINE,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Ms. SMITH, and Ms. HASSAN):
S. 1204. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
Education to establish an Advisory Commis-
sion on Serving and Supporting Students
with Mental Health Disabilities in Institu-
tions of Higher Education, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. WYDEN, and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 1205. A bill to amend the Equal Credit
Opportunity Act to require creditors to re-
quest demographic information from appli-
cants for certain types of credit in order to
prevent discriminatory lending practices
with respect to those applicants, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself and Mr.
KENNEDY):
S. 1206. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to prohibit aircraft from having
in place cameras and microphones that can
monitor passengers; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. ROMNEY (for himself, Ms.
SINEMA, and Ms. MCSALLY):
S. 1207. A bill to approve the settlement of
the water rights claims of the Navajo Nation
in Utah, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Indian Affairs.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and
Mrs. GILLIBRAND):
S. 1208. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 with re-
spect to payments to certain public safety
officers who have become permanently and
totally disabled as a result of personal inju-
ries sustained in the line of duty, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Mr.
DURBIN):
S. 1209. A bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act with respect to ap-
proval of abbreviated new drug applications;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. DURBIN, and Mr.
ROUNDS):
S. 1210. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase and make per-
manent the exclusion for benefits provided
to volunteer firefighters and emergency
medical responders; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself, Mr.
CRAMER, and Ms. MCSALLY):
S. 1211. A bill to provide for improvements
to Tribal transportation facilities and Tribal
transportation safety, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. SCHU-
MER, Ms. BALDWIN, and Mr.
MERKLEY):
S. 1212. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to expand and clarify the
prohibition on inaccurate caller identifica-
tion information and to require providers of
telephone service to offer technology to sub-
scribers to reduce the incidence of unwanted
telephone calls and text messages, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. BOOKER, and
Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 1213. A bill to provide health insurance
reform, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. MARKEY:
S. 1214. A bill to establish and protect indi-
vidual and collective privacy rights, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Mr.
REED) (by request):
S. 1215. A bill to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activities of
the Department of Defense and for military
construction, to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
By Mr. INHOFE:
S. 1216. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the
depreciation rules for property used pre-
dominantly within an Indian reservation; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. INHOFE:
S. 1217. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to eliminate the taxable in-
come limit on percentage depletion for oil
and natural gas produced from marginal
properties; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself, Mr.
BLUNT, Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and Ms.
DUCKWORTH):
S. 1218. A bill to require the review of the
service of certain members of the Armed
Forces during World War I to determine if
such members should be awarded the Medal
of Honor, to authorize the award of the
Medal of Honor based on the results of the
review, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr.
COONS, and Mr. KING):
S. 1219. A bill to provide for the discharge
of parent borrower liability if a student on
whose behalf a parent has received certain
student loans becomes disabled; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Ms.
HASSAN):
S. 1220. A bill to amend the Federal Advi-
sory Committee Act to increase the trans-
parency of Federal advisory committees, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Ms.
STABENOW):
S. Res. 159. A resolution designating April
24, 2019, as ‘‘Meningitis B Awareness Day’’;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. JONES (for himself, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. REED, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. WICKER, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, Mr. PETERS, Mr. TILLIS, and
Mr. BROWN):
S. Res. 160. A resolution recognizing the
contributions of defense laboratories to the
technological dominance of the United
States Armed Forces and supporting the des-
ignation of April 25, 2019, as ‘‘Department of
Defense Laboratory Day 2019’’; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Mr.
COONS):
S. Res. 161. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of World Malaria Day; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. Res. 162. A resolution supporting the
designation of April 2019 as ‘‘National Do-
nate Life Month’’; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr.
CRUZ):
S. Res. 163. A resolution commending and
congratulating the Lady Bears of Baylor
University on winning the 2019 National Col-
legiate Athletic Association Division I wom-
en’s basketball championship; considered
and agreed to.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself and Mr.
KAINE):
S. Res. 164. A resolution commending the
University of Virginia men’s basketball
team for winning the 2019 National Colle-
giate Athletic Association Division I Men’s
Basketball Championship; considered and
agreed to.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. REED, Mr. SCHUMER,
Mr. CORNYN, Mr. BROWN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. COONS, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. KING,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. CASSIDY, and Mr.
VAN HOLLEN):
S. Res. 165. A resolution recognizing the
importance of vaccinations and immuniza-
tions in the United States; considered and
agreed to.
By Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Mr.
HAWLEY):
S. Res. 166. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of May 1, 2019, as ‘‘Silver
Star Service Banner Day’’; considered and
agreed to .
By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. KING,
Mr. CRAMER, Mr. BENNET, Mr.
PORTMAN, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr.
GARDNER, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. ALEX-
ANDER, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. BLUNT, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. MANCHIN,
Mr. RUBIO, Mr. REED, Mr. HOEVEN,
Ms. STABENOW, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
UDALL, Ms. MCSALLY, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. WARNER,
Mr. ENZI, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. BOOZMAN,
Ms. COLLINS, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
TILLIS, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. CARDIN,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. WICKER, and Mr.
BROWN):
S. Res. 167. A resolution designating the
week of April 20, 2019, through April 28, 2019,
as ‘‘National Park Week’’; considered and
agreed to.
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. SCOTT
of South Carolina, Mr. JONES, Mr.
BARRASSO, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. BOOZMAN,
Mr. BRAUN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mrs. CAP-
ITO, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. CARPER, Mr.
CASSIDY, Mr. COONS, Mr. CRAMER, Mr.
CRAPO, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. ENZI, Ms.
ERNST, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. HASSAN,
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. ROBERTS, Ms. ROSEN, Mr.
TESTER, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
Mr. WICKER, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr.
PERDUE):
S. Res. 168. A resolution designating April
2019 as ‘‘Financial Literacy Month’’; consid-
ered and agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.028 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2436 April 11, 2019
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. LEAHY, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. WYDEN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
and Mr. KAINE):
S. Res. 169. A resolution requesting a state-
ment under section 502B(c) of the Foreign
Assistance Act of 1961 with respect to viola-
tions of human rights by the Government of
Saudi Arabia; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. COLLINS, and
Mrs. SHAHEEN):
S. Res. 170. A resolution recognizing the
Fifth Anniversary of the Chibok Girls Kid-
napping by the Boko Haram Terrorist Orga-
nization and calling on the Government of
Nigeria to redouble efforts to bring an end to
the conflict in northeast and central Nigeria
and to provide assistance to the victims; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
COONS, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, and Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN):
S. Res. 171. A resolution expressing the
sense of Congress regarding restoring United
States bilateral assistance to the West Bank
and Gaza; to the Committee on Foreign Re-
lations.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself and Ms.
HIRONO):
S. Con. Res. 14. A concurrent resolution au-
thorizing the use of Emancipation Hall in
the Capitol Visitor Center for an event to
celebrate the birthday of King Kamehameha
I; considered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 29
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) and the Senator from
Connecticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) were
added as cosponsors of S. 29, a bill to
establish the Office of Critical Tech-
nologies and Security, and for other
purposes.
S. 151
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS), the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY), the Senator from New
Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) and the
Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. HAS-
SAN) were added as cosponsors of S. 151,
a bill to deter criminal robocall viola-
tions and improve enforcement of sec-
tion 227(b) of the Communications Act
of 1934, and for other purposes.
S. 203
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 203, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently
extend the railroad track maintenance
credit, and for other purposes.
S. 213
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
213, a bill to amend the SOAR Act.
S. 255
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 255, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to in-
clude individuals receiving Social Se-
curity Disability Insurance benefits
under the work opportunity credit, in-
crease the work opportunity credit for
vocational rehabilitation referrals,
qualified SSI recipients, and qualified
SSDI recipients, expand the disabled
access credit, and enhance the deduc-
tion for expenditures to remove archi-
tectural and transportation barriers in
the handicapped and elderly.
S. 296
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII of the So-
cial Security Act to ensure more time-
ly access to home health services for
Medicare beneficiaries under the Medi-
care program.
S. 323
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 323, a bill to direct the Secretary
of Education to establish the Recogni-
tion Inspiring School Employees
(RISE) Program recognizing excellence
exhibited by classified school employ-
ees providing services to students in
prekindergarten through high school.
S. 342
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 342, a bill to reauthorize
title VI of the Higher Education Act of
1965 in order to improve and encourage
innovation in international education,
and for other purposes.
S. 386
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Virginia (Mr. WAR-
NER) was added as a cosponsor of S. 386,
a bill to amend the Immigration and
Nationality Act to eliminate the per-
country numerical limitation for em-
ployment-based immigrants, to in-
crease the per-country numerical limi-
tation for family-sponsored immi-
grants, and for other purposes.
S. 427
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA) and the Senator from
Maine (Ms. COLLINS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 427, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to enhance
activities of the National Institutes of
Health with respect to research on au-
tism spectrum disorder and enhance
programs relating to autism, and for
other purposes.
S. 509
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH), the Senator from Kansas
(Mr. ROBERTS), the Senator from Maine
(Ms. COLLINS) and the Senator from
New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ) were added
as cosponsors of S. 509, a bill to require
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint
coins in commemoration of the United
States Coast Guard.
S. 586
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. THUNE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 586, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to re-
move the 96-hour physician certifi-
cation requirement for inpatient crit-
ical access hospital services.
S. 622
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
names of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN), the Senator from
Kentucky (Mr. PAUL), the Senator from
Arkansas (Mr. COTTON) and the Senator
from Hawaii (Mr. SCHATZ) were added
as cosponsors of S. 622, a bill to amend
title 10, United States Code, to repeal
the requirement for reduction of sur-
vivor annuities under the Survivor
Benefit Plan by veterans’ dependency
and indemnity compensation, and for
other purposes.
S. 651
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
651, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the age
requirement with respect to eligibility
for qualified ABLE programs.
S. 684
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH) were added
as cosponsors of S. 684, a bill to amend
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to re-
peal the excise tax on high-cost em-
ployer-sponsored health coverage.
S. 693
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. REED) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 693, a bill to amend title 36, United
States Code, to require that the POW/
MIA flag be displayed on all days that
the flag of the United States is dis-
played on certain Federal property.
S. 696
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 696, a bill to designate the
same individual serving as the Chief
Nurse Officer of the Public Health
Service as the National Nurse for Pub-
lic Health.
S. 715
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 715, a bill to improve the
productivity and energy efficiency of
the manufacturing sector by directing
the Secretary of Energy, in coordina-
tion with the National Academies and
other appropriate Federal agencies, to
develop a national smart manufac-
turing plan and to provide assistance
to small- and medium-sized manufac-
turers in implementing smart manu-
facturing programs, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 716
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 716, a bill to impose sanctions
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.030 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2437
April 11, 2019
under the Global Magnitsky Human
Rights Accountability Act to combat
corruption, money laundering, and im-
punity in Guatemala, and for other
purposes.
S. 750
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN), the Senator from Ne-
vada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO), the Senator
from Washington (Mrs. MURRAY) and
the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) were added as cosponsors of
S. 750, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently
extend the new markets tax credit, and
for other purposes.
S. 785
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 785, a bill to improve
mental health care provided by the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, and for
other purposes.
S. 852
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 852, a bill to provide for
the consideration of a definition of
anti-Semitism for the enforcement of
Federal antidiscrimination laws con-
cerning education programs or activi-
ties.
S. 867
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 867, a bill to protect stu-
dents of institutions of higher edu-
cation and the taxpayer investment in
institutions of higher education by im-
proving oversight and accountability of
institutions of higher education, par-
ticularly for-profit colleges, improving
protections for students and borrowers,
and ensuring the integrity of postsec-
ondary education programs, and for
other purposes.
S. 895
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. BARRASSO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 895, a bill to provide for a per-
manent extension of the enforcement
instruction on supervision require-
ments for outpatient therapeutic serv-
ices in critical access and small rural
hospitals.
S. 901
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 901, a bill to amend the
Older Americans Act of 1965 to support
individuals with younger onset Alz-
heimer’s disease.
S. 926
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
names of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS), the Senator from
Washington (Ms. CANTWELL) and the
Senator from Oregon (Mr. MERKLEY)
were added as cosponsors of S. 926, a
bill to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to ensure that kombucha
is exempt from any excise taxes and
regulations imposed on alcoholic bev-
erages.
S. 948
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
948, a bill to provide incentives to phy-
sicians to practice in rural and medi-
cally underserved communities, and for
other purposes.
S. 988
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 988, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
prohibit prescription drug plan spon-
sors and MA–PD organizations under
the Medicare program from retro-
actively reducing payment on clean
claims submitted by pharmacies.
S. 1013
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) and the Senator
from Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1013, a bill to
amend the Public Health Service Act
to reauthorize school-based health cen-
ters, and for other purposes.
S. 1026
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1026, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow
workers an above-the-line deduction
for union dues and expenses and to
allow a miscellaneous itemized deduc-
tion for workers for all unreimbursed
expenses incurred in the trade or busi-
ness of being an employee.
S. 1043
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr.
LANKFORD) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1043, a bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to provide com-
pensatory time for employees in the
private sector.
S. 1062
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1062, a bill to provide au-
thorization for nonpecuniary damages
in an action resulting from a cruise
ship accident occurring on the high
seas.
S. 1081
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN), the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW), the Senator from Vir-
ginia (Mr. WARNER) and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1081, a bill to amend
title 54, United States Code, to provide
permanent, dedicated funding for the
Land and Water Conservation Fund,
and for other purposes.
S. 1125
At the request of Mr. TILLIS, the
names of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI), the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN), the Senator from
South Dakota (Mr. THUNE) and the
Senator from South Carolina (Mr. GRA-
HAM) were added as cosponsors of S.
1125, a bill to amend the Health Insur-
ance Portability and Accountability
Act.
S. CON. RES. 5
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Con. Res. 5, a concurrent reso-
lution supporting the Local Radio
Freedom Act.
S. CON. RES. 13
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
ISAKSON) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Con. Res. 13, a concurrent resolution
reaffirming the United States commit-
ment to Taiwan and to the implemen-
tation of the Taiwan Relations Act.
S. RES. 85
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 85, a resolution rec-
ognizing the 100th anniversary of the
founding of Easterseals, a leading advo-
cate and service provider for children
and adults with disabilities, including
veterans and older adults, and their
caregivers and families.
S. RES. 120
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 120, a resolution opposing efforts
to delegitimize the State of Israel and
the Global Boycott, Divestment, and
Sanctions Movement targeting Israel.
S. RES. 144
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 144, a resolution designating
May 5, 2019, as the ‘‘National Day of
Awareness for Missing and Murdered
Native Women and Girls’’.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. INHOFE (for himself and
Mr. REED) (by request):
S. 1215. A bill to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of Defense
and for military construction, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for
such fiscal year, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, Senator
REED and I are today introducing, by
request, the Administration’s proposed
National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020. As is the case with
any bill that is introduced by request,
we introduce this bill for the purpose of
placing the Administration’s proposals
before Congress and the public without
expressing our own views on the sub-
stance of these proposals. As Chairman
and Ranking Member of the Armed
Services Committee, we look forward
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.032 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2438 April 11, 2019
to giving the Administration’s re-
quested legislation our most careful re-
view and thoughtful consideration.
By Mr. ENZI (for himself, Mr.
ALEXANDER, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr.
CORNYN, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr.
BRAUN, Mr. BLUNT, Mrs. CAPITO,
Mr. INHOFE, Ms. MCSALLY, Mr.
THUNE, Mr. SASSE, Mr. ROMNEY,
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr. GRASS-
LEY, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mr. SCOTT, of South Carolina,
Ms. ERNST, Mr. PERDUE, Mr.
WICKER, Ms. MURKOWSKI, Mr.
DAINES, Mr. LANKFORD, and Mr.
GRAHAM):
S. 1170. A bill to amend the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 to establish additional criteria for
determining when employers may join
together in a group or association of
employers that will be treated as an
employer under section 3(5) of such Act
for purposes of sponsoring a group
health plan, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I rise to in-
troduce the Association Health Plans
Act of 2019. I have been championing
association health plans, which I some-
times call small business health plans,
for more than 15 years. As a small busi-
ness owner, I understand firsthand the
difficulties these employers face trying
to provide health insurance for their
employees. Small business owners want
to provide comprehensive health insur-
ance to their employees, but it can be
a real struggle to afford those plans. In
part due to these pressures, the number
of small businesses offering coverage
has dropped substantially over the
years, from 47 percent in 2000 to 30 per-
cent in 2017.
Few families are shielded from the
rising costs of healthcare and, by ex-
tension, the rising cost of health insur-
ance, but among the hardest hit are
American small businesses.
Small businesses have limited ability
to pool risk and lack coverage in the
market, so they often end up paying
more for health insurance than large
employers who have more buying
power. According to the National Con-
ference of State Legislatures, small
businesses pay about 8 to 18 percent
more on average than large businesses
for the same health insurance policy.
To put it another way, one family
shoe store probably can’t get an insur-
ance company to play ball, but 1,000
family shoe stores probably could. This
is the premise of the association health
plans. Let’s let small businesses band
together and leverage their shared
power in numbers to obtain com-
prehensive and affordable health insur-
ance as though they were a single large
employer.
This does not mean they are allowed
to cut corners. The coverage offered to
association members is subject to the
consumer protection requirements that
apply to large employers. That in-
cludes important consumer protections
established on a bipartisan basis under
the Employee Retirement Income Se-
curity Act, ERISA, the Health Insur-
ance Portability and Accountability
Act, HIPAA, and the Consolidated Om-
nibus Budget Reconciliation Act,
COBRA. Association health plans also
comply with the Affordable Care Act
requirements for large-employer health
plans.
Association health plans are not a
new concept. They have long been per-
mitted under Federal law. For exam-
ple, the Wyoming Chambers Health
Benefit Plan has served Wyoming’s
Chambers of Commerce since 2007. It
currently offers comprehensive and af-
fordable coverage to 11 local Chambers
of Commerce, 52 employers, and 255 em-
ployees.
Last year, the Trump administration
issued a new rule that made it easier
for small businesses to band together
for the purposes of offering an associa-
tion health plan. Specifically, the De-
partment of Labor created a new
‘‘pathway’’ for forming the association
so that small businesses can band to-
gether by common industry or common
geography. For example, flower shops
across the Nation might band together
to offer an association health plan, or
small businesses in unrelated profes-
sions might band together just within
my State of Wyoming.
The final rule also allowed self-em-
ployed Americans to receive coverage
through association health plans estab-
lished under the new pathway. It did
not rescind the old pathway, so asso-
ciation health plans in existence before
the final rule can continue to operate
unchanged, or new ones can use that
pathway to form.
The final rule also does not change
existing ERISA preemption rules that
authorize broad State insurance regu-
lation of association health plans ei-
ther through health insurance issuers
or directly in the case of self-insured
association health plans. I will repeat
that again. The final rule does not
change existing ERISA preemption
rules that authorize broad State insur-
ance regulation of association health
plans either through health insurance
issuers or directly in the case of self-in-
sured association health plans.
Roughly 30 association health plans
have formed under the new pathway
since the Department of Labor final-
ized the rule. For example, the Las
Vegas Chamber of Commerce formed
an association health plan covering 500
small businesses and 100 sole propri-
etors. The Georgia Chamber of Com-
merce began taking steps to launch a
new self-insured association health
plan that could eventually enroll
800,000 people. Two Michigan small
business associations joined forces to
create an association health plan that
has enrolled nearly 400 small busi-
nesses throughout the State.
There are likely more to come. Ac-
cording to the Congressional Budget
Office, about 4 million people are ex-
pected to enroll in association health
plans by 2023, including 400,000 who
would otherwise be uninsured.
All of this is to demonstrate one sim-
ple fact: Association health plans
work. They provide coverage to people
who would not otherwise have it, and
they provide comprehensive health
benefits at an affordable price.
Unfortunately, a Federal district
judge vacated the Labor Department’s
final rule, threatening to disrupt cov-
erage for tens of thousands of enrollees
in association health plans formed
under the final rule and threatening to
restrict the ability of small businesses,
working families, and self-employed
Americans to band together to obtain
affordable and high-quality health in-
surance in the future.
My bill will simply codify the Labor
Department’s final rule to provide cer-
tainty for current enrollees and to en-
sure the pathway remains available for
new association health plans to form.
It is not intended to disrupt the State
authority. That is important so we
don’t need to build another Washington
bureaucracy, and you can be assured of
better help if you need it. Our State in-
surance commissioners are much closer
to the real problems confronted by in-
surance consumers and are better able
to deal with those issues at a local
level. It is also not intended to affect
association health plans created by
other means than the pathway estab-
lished in the final rule.
There has been a lot of discussion in
the Senate lately about protections for
people with preexisting conditions. I
support protecting people with pre-
existing conditions. Every Republican
Senator I know does too. It is impor-
tant to point out that robust coverage
doesn’t mean very much if you can’t
afford to buy it. Unfortunately, that
has been the experience for a lot of
small business owners and self-em-
ployed Americans in my State. Asso-
ciation health plans can help solve this
problem for small businesses. The
Labor Department’s final rule didn’t
just expand eligibility for a type of
health insurance that has long been
available for some small business own-
ers in the United States. It made the
promise of comprehensive and afford-
able health insurance coverage a re-
ality for the same Americans who have
identified the cost of health insurance
as the No. 1 problem facing small busi-
nesses for the last 30 years.
This is not to say there is not more
that can be done. The final rule is an
important step forward, but it is not a
silver bullet. There is more Congress
can do to advance association health
plans, and there is more Congress can
do to improve our healthcare system
and address the issues of rising
healthcare costs and rising drug prices,
all while ensuring protections for peo-
ple with preexisting conditions, but
one thing we can do immediately to
help people with preexisting conditions
is to pass the bill I am introducing
today. The district court judge struck
down the Labor Department’s final
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.042 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2439
April 11, 2019
rule and did not issue a stay, so thou-
sands of currently covered individuals
are at risk of losing their health insur-
ance coverage. Passing this bill will en-
sure that they do not.
Small businesses ought to have the
opportunity to band together and le-
verage their combined strength so they
can negotiate and provide their em-
ployees with comprehensive and afford-
able health insurance coverage. That
coverage should be subject to the same
consumer protection requirements that
apply to large employers offering simi-
lar coverage. Small businesses and
their employees are the bedrock of our
country’s economy, and proper health
insurance coverage is a key element of
family well-being and peace of mind.
This bill will strengthen those founda-
tions so we can continue to prosper as
a country.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 159—DESIG-
NATING APRIL 24, 2019, AS ‘‘MEN-
INGITIS B AWARENESS DAY’’
Mr. PETERS (for himself and Ms.
STABENOW) submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 159
Whereas it is the custom of the Senate to
increase awareness of serious illnesses that
affect the lives of the people of the United
States;
Whereas meningococcal disease, more com-
monly referred to as ‘‘bacterial meningitis’’,
is any infection caused by the bacterium
Neisseria meningitidis;
Whereas meningococcal disease is uncom-
mon, and the flu-like symptoms of the dis-
ease make diagnosis difficult;
Whereas meningococcal disease can cause
serious illnesses, such as—
(1) an infection of the lining of the brain
and spinal column known as ‘‘meningitis’’;
and
(2) blood infections known as ‘‘sepsis’’;
Whereas the disease strikes quickly and
may lead to severe or permanent disabilities,
such as hearing loss, brain damage, seizures,
and limb amputation, and may even lead to
death within 24 to 48 hours;
Whereas, although 1 in 10 people are car-
riers of Neisseria meningitidis bacteria with
no signs or symptoms of disease, Neisseria
meningitidis bacteria may sometimes cause
illnesses;
Whereas there are different strains of
meningococcal disease, including strains
caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroups
A, C, W, Y, and B;
Whereas vaccines exist to help provide pro-
tection against all strains of meningococcal
disease caused by the serogroups common in
the United States;
Whereas meningococcal disease is spread
from person to person via the exchange of
Neisseria meningitidis bacteria through res-
piratory and throat secretions during close
or lengthy contact, including contact such
as—
(1) sharing beverages or eating utensils;
(2) kissing; and
(3) spending time in close contact with
someone who is sick or who carries the bac-
teria;
Whereas community settings in which
large groups of people gather, such as college
campuses, may increase the risk of trans-
mission of meningococcal disease;
Whereas, because of the way
meningococcal disease is spread through
close personal contact, the social behavior of
young adults ages 16 to 23 increases the risk
of those adults contracting the disease;
Whereas students in dormitory settings
and at crowded events are particularly vul-
nerable to meningococcal disease;
Whereas college students ages 18 to 24 were
found to be 3.5 times more likely to contract
meningitis B, the strain of meningococcal
disease caused by serogroup B, compared to
their peers not in school;
Whereas the single best way to help pre-
vent all common strains of meningococcal
disease is to be vaccinated with—
(1) a MenACWY vaccine to protect against
the strains of meningococcal disease caused
by serogroups A, C, W, and Y; and
(2) a separate MenB vaccine to protect
against the strain of meningococcal disease
caused by serogroup B;
Whereas the incidence of meningococcal
disease in the United States has steadily de-
clined from 1.20 cases per 100,000 individuals
in 1995 to a historic low of 0.11 cases per
100,000 individuals in 2017;
Whereas, although vaccines for serogroups
A, C, W, and Y have been available for many
years, a vaccine for serogroup B was not
available until 2014;
Whereas, despite the existence of a vaccine
for serogroup B since 2014, meningitis B has
been responsible for all United States college
campus outbreaks since 2011, with some
cases resulting in death;
Whereas, because the strain of
meningococcal disease caused by serogroup
B requires a new, separate vaccination, stu-
dents heading to college may mistakenly
think that, if they received the MenACWY
vaccine, they are protected against all
strains of the disease, and may not realize
that they are not protected against the
strain caused by serogroup B;
Whereas, according to the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention, Neisseria
meningitidis serogroup B accounts for ap-
proximately half of all cases of
meningococcal disease among individuals
ages 15 to 22 in the United States;
Whereas vaccination for serogroups A, C,
W, and Y is routinely recommended by the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;
Whereas the Advisory Committee on Im-
munization Practices of the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention recommends
that decisions to vaccinate adolescents and
young adults ages 16 to 23 against the strain
of meningococcal disease caused by
serogroup B should be made at the individual
level with health care providers;
Whereas a recent study found that many
doctors are not talking to patients about the
MenB vaccine, including 49 percent of pedia-
tricians and 69 percent of family physicians
who do not regularly discuss the MenB vac-
cine during routine visits with individuals
ages 16 to 18;
Whereas meningitis vaccines are covered
by public and private health insurance plans,
and individuals should be encouraged to con-
tact health insurance plans to determine
coverage of MenACWY and MenB vaccines;
Whereas the Federal Vaccines for Children
program covers both MenACWY and MenB
vaccines for—
(1) children and adults who have no health
insurance or whose health insurance does
not cover those vaccines; and
(2) children less than 19 years of age who
are American Indian, Alaska Native, or eligi-
ble for Medicaid or other State health plan
coverage;
Whereas, in 2012, before meningitis B vac-
cines were available in the United States,
Kimberly Coffey, a 17-year-old high school
senior on Long Island, New York, died from
meningitis B;
Whereas Patti Wukovits, R.N., the mother
of Kimberly Coffey, created the Kimberly
Coffey Foundation, a vital organization with
the mission of—
(1) providing education to the public and
health care professionals about
meningococcal disease; and
(2) advocating for two types of vaccination
for meningococcal disease;
Whereas the goal of the Kimberly Coffey
Foundation is to ensure that no other family
will endure the loss of a child or have a loved
one experience the devastating effects of
meningococcal disease;
Whereas June 15, 2019, marks the seventh
anniversary of the death of Kimberly Coffey;
Whereas 19-year-old Emily Nicole
Stillman, while a sophomore at Kalamazoo
College in Kalamazoo, Michigan, tragically
contracted bacterial meningitis before men-
ingitis B vaccines were available in the
United States;
Whereas, on February 2, 2013, after just 36
hours in the hospital, Emily Nicole Stillman
passed away;
Whereas, in 2014, Alicia Stillman, the
mother of Emily Nicole Stillman, created
the Emily Stillman Foundation—
(1) to preserve the memory of Emily Nicole
Stillman;
(2) to advocate for organ and tissue dona-
tion; and
(3) to advocate for the increased avail-
ability of vaccines for all vaccine-prevent-
able diseases, including the increased avail-
ability of meningitis vaccines for children;
Whereas February 2019 marked the sixth
anniversary of the death of Emily Stillman;
Whereas the Meningitis B Action Project,
a joint initiative of the Kimberly Coffey
Foundation and the Emily Stillman Founda-
tion, is committed to raising awareness
about meningococcal disease throughout the
United States;
Whereas students, parents, educators, and
health care providers should learn about all
strains of meningococcal disease and how to
protect against all strains of the disease; and
Whereas April 24, 2019, should be des-
ignated as ‘‘Meningitis B Awareness Day’’ to
coincide with the observance of World Men-
ingitis Day: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates April 24, 2019, as ‘‘Meningitis
B Awareness Day’’; and
(2) encourages—
(A) all individuals to contact health insur-
ance plans to determine coverage of
MenACWY and MenB vaccines; and
(B) students, parents, educators, and
health care providers to learn about all
strains of meningococcal disease and how to
protect against all strains of the disease.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 160—RECOG-
NIZING THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF
DEFENSE LABORATORIES TO
THE TECHNOLOGICAL DOMI-
NANCE OF THE UNITED STATES
ARMED FORCES AND SUP-
PORTING THE DESIGNATION OF
APRIL 25, 2019, AS ‘‘DEPARTMENT
OF DEFENSE LABORATORY DAY
2019’’
Mr. JONES (for himself, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. REED, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. WICKER, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, Mr. PETERS, Mr. TILLIS, and Mr.
BROWN) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.025 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2440 April 11, 2019
S. RES. 160
Whereas the national network of labora-
tories, research and development centers,
and engineering centers that are owned and
funded by the Department of Defense (re-
ferred to in this preamble as the ‘‘defense
laboratories’’) should be commended as res-
ervoirs of technical talent available to sup-
port—
(1) immediate, tactical military innova-
tion; and
(2) foundational research, science, and en-
gineering to address long-term challenges;
Whereas the national security innovation
emanating from the defense laboratories will
be predicated on—
(1) a sufficient pipeline of trained and expe-
rienced scientists and engineers eligible for a
security clearance; and
(2) the facilities, infrastructure, instru-
mentation, and support capabilities needed—
(A) to attract and retain those scientists
and engineers; and
(B) to bolster the activities of those sci-
entists and engineers to meet the tech-
nology problems of the Department of De-
fense;
Whereas research and development sup-
ported by the Department of Defense has—
(1) led to new products and processes for
state-of-the-art Armed Forces weapons and
technology; and
(2) technically informed new approaches
and concepts of operation that will be needed
to keep the Armed Forces ahead of future ad-
versaries of the United States;
Whereas defense laboratories—
(1) are critical elements of the innovation
ecosystem; and
(2) compose indispensable elements in the
technology transfer community when lever-
aged with partners in—
(A) State and local governments;
(B) regional organizations;
(C) academia; and
(D) nonprofit research institutions;
Whereas defense laboratories have earned
prestigious national and international
awards for research and technology transfer
efforts, providing a foundation of techno-
logical leadership for—
(1) the Armed Forces; and
(2) the United States;
Whereas the innovations that are produced
at defense laboratories fuel economic growth
by creating new industries, companies, and
jobs; and
Whereas April 25, 2019, is an appropriate
day to designate as ‘‘Department of Defense
Laboratory Day 2019’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the designation of April 25,
2019, as ‘‘Department of Defense Laboratory
Day 2019’’ in celebration of all of the work
and accomplishments of the national net-
work of laboratories, research and develop-
ment centers, and engineering centers that
are owned and funded by the Department of
Defense (referred to in this resolution as the
‘‘defense laboratories’’);
(2) recognizes that a key to maintaining
the innovation and competitiveness of the
United States in a global economy is to con-
tinue to support federally sponsored research
and development;
(3) acknowledges that the knowledge base,
technologies, and techniques generated in
the national network of defense laboratories
serve as a foundation for additional efforts
relating to the Armed Forces in the defense
industrial base;
(4) commits to find ways to increase in-
vestment in the national network of defense
laboratories in order to increase support of—
(A) federally sponsored research and devel-
opment;
(B) critical scientific, technical, engineer-
ing, and mathematics (referred to in this res-
olution as ‘‘STEM’’) personnel;
(C) STEM development activities; and
(D) necessary supporting infrastructure
and facilities;
(5) encourages defense laboratories, Fed-
eral agencies, and Congress to hold an out-
reach event on April 25, 2019, ‘‘Department of
Defense Laboratory Day 2019’’, to make the
public more aware of the important con-
tributions that defense laboratories make to
national defense and economic prosperity;
and
(6) recognizes the outstanding dedication,
qualifications, service, and accomplishments
of the scientists, engineers, technicians, and
support staff of the defense laboratories.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 161—SUP-
PORTING THE GOALS AND
IDEALS OF WORLD MALARIA
DAY
Mr. WICKER (for himself and Mr.
COONS) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 161
Whereas April 25 of each year is recognized
internationally as World Malaria Day;
Whereas malaria is a leading cause of
death and disease in many developing coun-
tries, despite being preventable and treat-
able;
Whereas fighting malaria is in the national
interest of the United States because—
(1) reducing the risk of malaria protects
members of the Armed Forces and other peo-
ple of the United States serving overseas in
malaria-endemic regions; and
(2) reducing malaria deaths helps to lower
risks of instability in less developed coun-
tries;
Whereas United States support for efforts
to fight malaria—
(1) is in the diplomatic, economic, and hu-
manitarian interests of the United States;
(2) generates goodwill toward the United
States; and
(3) highlights the values of the people of
the United States through the work of gov-
ernmental, nongovernmental, and faith-
based organizations of the United States;
Whereas, in 2017, 87 countries and areas had
ongoing malaria transmissions;
Whereas nearly 1⁄2 of the population of the
world is at risk for malaria, with the World
Health Organization African region carrying
a disproportionately high burden, with 92
percent of malaria cases and 93 percent of
malaria deaths in the world;
Whereas young children and pregnant
women are particularly vulnerable to, and
disproportionately affected by, malaria;
Whereas children under the age of 5 ac-
count for an estimated 61 percent of malaria
deaths each year;
Whereas the World Malaria Report 2018
published by the World Health Organization
states that, in 2017, approximately 435,000
people died from malaria, which is a decrease
of approximately 50 percent, as compared to
2000;
Whereas the United States Government
has played a leading role in the recent
progress made toward reducing the global
burden of malaria, particularly through the
President’s Malaria Initiative and the con-
tribution of the United States to the Global
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Ma-
laria; and
Whereas the United States Government is
pursuing a comprehensive approach to end-
ing malaria deaths through the President’s
Malaria Initiative, which is led by the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment and implemented with assistance
from the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, the Department of State, the
Department of Health and Human Services,
the National Institutes of Health, the De-
partment of Defense, and private sector enti-
ties: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the goals and ideals of World
Malaria Day;
(2) recognizes the importance of reducing
malaria prevalence and deaths to improve
overall child and maternal health, especially
in sub-Saharan Africa;
(3) commends the recent progress made to-
ward reducing global malaria morbidity,
mortality, and prevalence, particularly
through the efforts of the President’s Ma-
laria Initiative and the Global Fund to Fight
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria;
(4) welcomes ongoing public-private part-
nerships to research and develop more effec-
tive and affordable tools for malaria surveil-
lance, diagnostics, treatment, and preven-
tion;
(5) recognizes the goals, priorities, and au-
thorities to combat malaria set forth in the
United States Leadership Against HIV/AIDS,
Tuberculosis, and Malaria Act of 2003 (Public
Law 108–25; 117 Stat. 711) and the Tom Lantos
and Henry J. Hyde United States Global
Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis,
and Malaria Reauthorization Act of 2008
(Public Law 110–293; 122 Stat. 2918);
(6) supports continued leadership by the
United States in bilateral, multilateral, and
private sector efforts to combat malaria and
to work with endemic countries in devel-
oping and effectively executing their own na-
tional responses to malaria; and
(7) encourages other members of the inter-
national community to sustain and increase
their support for, and financial contributions
to, efforts to combat malaria worldwide.
Mr. JONES. Mr. President, today I
wish to offer a resolution recognizing
the critical contributions the labora-
tories of the Department of Defense
make to the national security of this
country. The 63 Laboratories, Warfare
Centers, and Engineering Centers of
the Department of Defense spread
across 22 states and the District of Co-
lumbia are important components of
the U.S. warfighting establishment and
are instrumental in maintaining the
technological edge of our military
forces. My resolution would highlight
the contributions of these laboratories
by designating April 25, 2019, as ‘‘De-
partment of Defense Laboratory Day
2019’’ in order to celebrate the work
and accomplishments of the men and
women in those defense labs. Many of
the technological advantages upon
which our military rests are rooted in
the diligent, dedicated work and inno-
vative mindset of the scientists and en-
gineers in our defense labs. Their work
drives not only the near-term, tactical
innovations needed to support our sol-
diers, sailors, airmen and marines in
the wars of the past century, but they
are critical foundations of research
that will fuel the processes and tech-
nologies needed for the next century
and beyond. In addition to the cutting-
edge research and development of new
technologies, our defense laboratories
are a resource to the national economy
and innovation ecosystem of the na-
tion—providing the people, facilities,
experience, operational problems, and
capabilities for technology transfer
that support the warfighter, industry,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:37 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.047 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2441
April 11, 2019
academia, other parts of federal gov-
ernment, and even many of our allies
and partners throughout the world.
The nearly 76,000 scientists and engi-
neers employed by the Department of
Defense labs are exemplars of public
service, and the outstanding dedica-
tion, qualifications, service, and ac-
complishments of these scientists, en-
gineers, technicians, and support staff
of the defense laboratories should
make all Americans proud.
In recognizing the men and women of
the defense labs, I am especially proud
of the contributions Alabama makes.
As the home to multiple Army labora-
tories—including the Aviation and Mis-
sile Center, Space and Missile Defense
Technical Center, and the Army
Aeromedical Research Laboratory—
Alabama punches far above its weight
in terms of contributions of people, fa-
cilities and resources to the defense
laboratory network. This results in one
of the highest per capita concentra-
tions of scientists and engineers in the
country, with an extraordinary eco-
nomic impact on the State. Not only
do these labs provide thousands of jobs
in Alabama, they bring in billions of
dollars in investments and return those
dollars back into the communities in
which they reside.
The network of Department of De-
fense laboratories is not just an asset
for the Department, but is a national
asset as well. With over a hundred
DoD-funded Nobel prizes, and thou-
sands of patents and publications, de-
fense laboratories are technological
and economic engines on par with any
industry or university laboratory. I ap-
plaud the work of the defense labs, and
all of the scientists and engineers that
make them successful, especially those
in Alabama. I urge my colleagues to
support the contributions of the labs
by supporting the proclamation of
April 25th as the 2019 Laboratory Day.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 162—SUP-
PORTING THE DESIGNATION OF
APRIL 2019 AS ‘‘NATIONAL DO-
NATE LIFE MONTH’’
Ms. WARREN (for herself and Ms.
COLLINS) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions:
S. RES. 162
Whereas, in April 2019, more than 113,000
individuals were on the official waiting list
for organ donation managed by the Organ
Procurement and Transplantation Network
established under section 372 of the Public
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 274) (referred to
in this preamble as the ‘‘national transplant
waiting list’’);
Whereas, in 2018, 36,529 transplant proce-
dures were performed in the United States
with organs from 10,721 deceased donors and
6,841 living donors, yet on average, 20 people
die each day while waiting for an organ do-
nation;
Whereas more than 150,000,000 people in the
United States are registered to be organ and
tissue donors, yet the demand for donated
organs outweighs the supply of organs made
available each day;
Whereas, in 2018, a record was set for the
number of organ transplants performed in a
single year, for the sixth consecutive year,
yet every 10 minutes, 1 person is added to the
national transplant waiting list;
Whereas organ donation from a single de-
ceased donor can benefit up to 8 individuals,
and tissue donation from a single deceased
donor can benefit an additional 75 individ-
uals;
Whereas a living donor can donate a kid-
ney or a portion of a lung or the liver to save
the life of another individual; and
Whereas April is traditionally recognized
as ‘‘National Donate Life Month’’: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the designation of April 2019 as
‘‘National Donate Life Month’’;
(2) supports the goals and ideals of Na-
tional Donate Life Month;
(3) supports promoting awareness of organ
and tissue donation by increasing public
awareness;
(4) encourages States, localities, and terri-
tories of the United States to support the
goals and ideals of National Donate Life
Month by issuing a proclamation to des-
ignate April as ‘‘National Donate Life
Month’’;
(5) commends each individual who—
(A) is a registered organ donor who may
have a positive effect on the life of another
individual; or
(B) indicates a wish to become an organ
and tissue donor;
(6) acknowledges the grief of families who
face the loss of loved ones and commends the
families who, in their grief, choose to donate
the organs and tissues of deceased family
members;
(7) recognizes the generous contribution
made by each living individual who has do-
nated an organ or tissue to save and enhance
the life of another individual;
(8) acknowledges the advances in medical
technology that have enabled organ trans-
plantation with organs donated by living in-
dividuals to become a viable treatment op-
tion for an increasing number of patients;
(9) commends the medical professionals
and organ donation and transplantation ex-
perts who have worked to improve organ do-
nation of deceased and living individuals and
to increase the number of deceased and liv-
ing donors, thus saving more lives; and
(10) salutes each individual who has helped
to give the gift of life by supporting, pro-
moting, and encouraging organ and tissue
donation.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 163—COM-
MENDING AND CONGRATU-
LATING THE LADY BEARS OF
BAYLOR UNIVERSITY ON WIN-
NING THE 2019 NATIONAL COLLE-
GIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION
DIVISION I WOMEN’S BASKET-
BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr.
CRUZ) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was considered and agreed
to:
S. RES. 163
Whereas, on April 7, 2019, the women’s bas-
ketball team of Baylor University, the Lady
Bears, won its third National Collegiate Ath-
letic Association Division I women’s basket-
ball championship (referred to in this pre-
amble as the ‘‘national championship’’) by
defeating the University of Notre Dame by a
score of 82–81 and completing the season with
an impressive overall record of 37–1;
Whereas Head Coach Kim Mulkey is the
only woman in the history of women’s bas-
ketball to have played and coached a na-
tional championship team and has now led
the Lady Bears to 3 national championship
titles during her tenure at Baylor Univer-
sity;
Whereas junior forward Lauren Cox served
to bring her team together throughout the
season and played with commendable skill
and spirit during the national championship
game, scoring 8 points and 8 rebounds before
leaving the game due to an injury;
Whereas point guard Chloe Jackson, named
the Most Outstanding Player of the Final
Four, showed immense fortitude and exem-
plary leadership by rallying her team during
the last quarter of the game to honor her in-
jured teammate and bring home a victory for
the Lady Bears with a tiebreaking layup in
the last 3.9 seconds of the fourth quarter;
Whereas all of the following players should
be congratulated for their teamwork, dedica-
tion, and display of impressive athletic tal-
ent: NaLyssa Smith, Didi Richards, Trinity
Oliver, Honesty Scott-Grayson, Aquira
DeCosta, Moon Ursin, Lauren Cox, Juicy
Landrum, Kalani Brown, Chloe Jackson,
Queen Egbo, and Caitlin Bickle;
Whereas the Lady Bears displayed impres-
sive courage and composure facing off
against the Fighting Irish of the University
of Notre Dame, defenders of the 2018 national
championship title;
Whereas the women of Baylor University’s
2018–2019 women’s basketball team have con-
tinuously pursued excellence in not only ath-
letics, but academics as well;
Whereas the Lady Bears have proven them-
selves a paragon of hard work and sports-
manship, as exemplified by an impressive
season of 37 wins and only 1 loss and cham-
pionship titles in both the Big 12 women’s
basketball tournament and the Big 12 reg-
ular season;
Whereas the accomplishments of the Lady
Bears in their 2018–2019 season inspire
strength, unity, and cooperation in the
hearts of women across the State of Texas;
and
Whereas the Lady Bears are the pride of
their loyal fans, current students, alumni,
and the Lone Star State: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That the Senate congratulates
the Lady Bears of Baylor University on win-
ning the 2019 National Collegiate Athletic
Association Division I women’s basketball
championship and completing a successful
2018–2019 season.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 164—COM-
MENDING THE UNIVERSITY OF
VIRGINIA MEN’S BASKETBALL
TEAM FOR WINNING THE 2019 NA-
TIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC
ASSOCIATION DIVISION I MEN’S
BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
Mr. WARNER (for himself and Mr.
KAINE) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was considered and agreed
to:
S. RES. 164
Whereas on Monday, April 8, 2019, the Uni-
versity of Virginia men’s basketball team
(referred to in this preamble as the ‘‘Virginia
Cavaliers’’) won the 2019 National Collegiate
Athletic Association (referred to in this pre-
amble as the ‘‘NCAA’’) Division I Men’s Bas-
ketball Championship by defeating the Texas
Tech Red Raiders by a score of 85–77 at U.S.
Bank Stadium in Minneapolis, Minnesota;
Whereas the Virginia Cavaliers made his-
tory by winning the first National Cham-
pionship in men’s basketball for the Univer-
sity of Virginia;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.054 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2442 April 11, 2019
Whereas the Virginia Cavaliers were reg-
ular season co-champions of the Atlantic
Coast Conference (referred to in this pre-
amble as the ‘‘ACC’’), marking the fourth
time the team has won this title in the past
6 seasons;
Whereas the Virginia Cavaliers finished
the 2018–2019 season with a record of 35–3 and
as the top-ranked scoring defense in the
country, holding opponents to just 55.5
points per game;
Whereas Tony Bennett, the head coach of
the Virginia Cavaliers, has, along with his
staff, established a program built on ‘‘The
Five Pillars’’ — Humility, Passion, Unity,
Servanthood, and Thankfulness;
Whereas Coach Bennett has, in his 10 sea-
sons at the University of Virginia, been
named National Coach of the Year 3 times,
placing him second all-time behind leg-
endary coach John Wooden;
Whereas for the second consecutive season,
Coach Bennett was named ACC Coach of the
Year;
Whereas De’Andre Hunter and Kyle Guy re-
ceived All-ACC First Team honors for the
2018–2019 season;
Whereas Ty Jerome received All-ACC Sec-
ond Team honors for the 2018–2019 season;
Whereas De’Andre Hunter was named ACC
Defensive Player of the Year and was named
to the ACC All-Defensive Team;
Whereas to advance to the Final Four, true
freshman Kihei Clark executed a precision
half-court pass to teammate Mamadi
Diakite, setting up his buzzer-beating tying
basket;
Whereas the pass from Clark to Diakite
was termed ‘‘the play of the century’’ by
teammate Ty Jerome;
Whereas De’Andre Hunter finished the
championship game with 27 points and 9 re-
bounds in 44 minutes;
Whereas Kyle Guy finished the champion-
ship game with 24 points and a 53.3 field goal
percentage in 45 minutes;
Whereas De’Andre Hunter, Kyle Guy, and
Ty Jerome—all part of the Virginia Cava-
liers’ 2016 recruiting class — scored 67 of Vir-
ginia’s 85 points in the championship game;
Whereas Kyle Guy was 11-for-11 in his final
free throws of the tournament;
Whereas the Virginia Cavaliers made all 12
of their free throws during overtime of the
championship game;
Whereas the entire Virginia Cavaliers
team will forever be remembered for their
resilience in overcoming defeat in the 2018
NCAA Tournament by winning the national
championship just 1 year later;
Whereas the Virginia Cavaliers represented
the Commonwealth of Virginia with remark-
able class, sportsmanship, dedication, and
teamwork; and
Whereas the Virginia Cavaliers brought
pride to the Commonwealth of Virginia, the
City of Charlottesville, and the greater Uni-
versity of Virginia community: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) congratulates and honors the Univer-
sity of Virginia men’s basketball team for
their performance in the 2019 National Colle-
giate Athletic Association Division I Men’s
Basketball Tournament;
(2) highlights and celebrates the grit, resil-
ience, and commitment to excellence of the
players, coaches, managers, parents, and
families of the Virginia Cavaliers; and
(3) respectfully requests that the Secretary
of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of
this resolution to—
(A) the President of the University of Vir-
ginia, James E. Ryan;
(B) the Director of Athletics at the Univer-
sity of Virginia, Carla Williams; and
(C) the head coach of the University of Vir-
ginia men’s basketball team, Tony Bennett.
SENATE RESOLUTION 165—RECOG-
NIZING THE IMPORTANCE OF
VACCINATIONS AND IMMUNIZA-
TIONS IN THE UNITED STATES
Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. ALEXANDER, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. REED, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr.
CORNYN, Mr. BROWN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. COONS, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. KING, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. CASSIDY, and Mr. VAN HOLLEN) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 165
Whereas the contributions of Louis Pas-
teur and Edward Jenner to the discovery of
the principles of vaccinology are among the
most consequential health findings in human
history;
Whereas a vaccine made possible the eradi-
cation of smallpox, saving millions of lives;
Whereas, because of the vaccine for polio, a
highly infectious disease caused by the polio-
virus, the international community—
(1) has eliminated polio in all but 3 coun-
tries; and
(2) has saved an estimated 15,000 Americans
from paralysis annually;
Whereas vaccines have dramatically re-
duced the spread of debilitating and poten-
tially life-threatening diseases, including—
(1) diphtheria;
(2) tetanus;
(3) measles;
(4) mumps; and
(5) rubella;
Whereas vaccines have prevented the
spread of infectious and potentially fatal dis-
eases, including—
(1) chickenpox;
(2) shingles;
(3) influenza;
(4) hepatitis A;
(5) hepatitis B;
(6) meningococcal disease;
(7) pneumococcal disease;
(8) rotavirus;
(9) pertussis (also known as ‘‘whooping
cough’’); and
(10) meningitis;
Whereas the vaccine-preventable human
papillomavirus (also known as ‘‘HPV’’) is
known to cause certain types of cancer;
Whereas the scientific and medical com-
munities are in overwhelming consensus
that vaccines are effective and safe;
Whereas misinformation about vaccine
safety and the dissemination of unfounded
and debunked theories about the dangers of
vaccinations pose a great risk to public
health;
Whereas scientifically sound education and
outreach campaigns about the importance of
vaccination and immunization are funda-
mental for a well-informed public;
Whereas communities with low vaccina-
tion rates compromise, in a particular way,
the health and livelihood of—
(1) infants;
(2) young children;
(3) seniors;
(4) individuals with immunodeficiency dis-
orders; and
(5) individuals with weakened or com-
promised immune systems, including indi-
viduals taking medication that affects the
immune system, such as medications to
treat cancer;
Whereas substantial research has shown
that vaccination is a highly cost-effective
form of preventive medicine;
Whereas the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (referred to in this preamble
as the ‘‘CDC’’) estimates that, between 1994
and 2013, vaccinations saved nearly
$295,000,000,000 in direct costs and
$1,380,000,000,000 in total societal costs in the
United States;
Whereas vaccines in the United States—
(1) undergo extensive safety and efficacy
testing before licensure by the Food and
Drug Administration; and
(2) are continually monitored for adverse
events;
Whereas there are 4 post-marketing sur-
veillance systems in the United States
tracking adverse events after vaccination;
Whereas the CDC estimates that—
(1) vaccinations will prevent more than
21,000,000 hospitalizations and 732,000 deaths
among children born between 1994 and 2013;
and
(2) vaccines save the lives of an estimated
2,500,000 children under age 5 each year;
Whereas 1 in 5 children worldwide lack ac-
cess to common vaccines and, as a result, an
estimated 1,500,000 people die each year from
vaccine-preventable diseases or complica-
tions of vaccine-preventable diseases, such
as diarrhea and pneumonia;
Whereas strong investments in biomedical
research to improve existing vaccines and
develop many more life-saving vaccines are
beneficial to all people;
Whereas a robust immunization infrastruc-
ture, by preventing and isolating outbreaks
of infectious diseases at the source, is essen-
tial to the public health and well-being of
the people of the United States;
Whereas each State determines the vac-
cination requirements for the people of that
State;
Whereas State vaccination requirements
are informed by recommendations approved
by the CDC and developed by the Advisory
Committee on Immunization Practices;
Whereas encouraging high vaccination
rates and promoting vaccine confidence in
the United States protects the people of the
United States from contracting and spread-
ing vaccine-preventable diseases;
Whereas the World Health Organization
(referred to in this preamble as the ‘‘WHO’’)
recently identified vaccine hesitancy as a
health threat for 2019;
Whereas addressing the many factors that
contribute to vaccine hesitancy is crucial to
increasing vaccination rates and improving
or achieving herd immunity;
Whereas routine and up-to-date vaccina-
tion is the most effective method available
to prevent the transmission of potentially
fatal infectious diseases; and
Whereas the United States has been a lead-
er in promoting vaccinations around the
world through—
(1) the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development;
(2) the CDC;
(3) Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance;
(4) the Global Polio Eradication Initiative;
(5) the United Nations International Chil-
dren’s Emergency Fund (commonly known
as ‘‘UNICEF’’);
(6) the WHO; and
(7) many other multilateral and non-
governmental organizations: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) commends the international commu-
nity, global and domestic health organiza-
tions, the private sector, school and commu-
nity leaders, and faith-based organizations
for their tireless work and immense con-
tributions to bolstering global and domestic
health through vaccination;
(2) affirms that vaccines and immuniza-
tions save lives and are essential to main-
tain—
(A) the public health; and
(B) the economic and national security of
the United States;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.058 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2443
April 11, 2019
(3) recognizes that—
(A) low vaccination rates or the lack of
vaccination can create an environment in
which a public health crisis could emerge;
(B) vaccines—
(i) are approved by the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration (referred to in this resolving
clause as the ‘‘FDA’’) as safe and effective;
and
(ii) meet the gold standard of safety estab-
lished by the FDA; and
(C) the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention advises medical providers and
parents in the United States that the bene-
fits of currently recommended vaccines
greatly outweigh the risks of those vaccines;
(4) encourages a continued commitment to
biomedical research—
(A) to improve vaccines; and
(B) to develop new vaccines against other
infectious and fatal diseases; and
(5) urges all people, in consultation with
their health care providers, to follow the sci-
entific evidence and consensus of medical ex-
perts in favor of timely vaccinations to pro-
tect—
(A) the individual vaccinated; and
(B) the children, family, and community of
the individual vaccinated.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 166—EX-
PRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF MAY 1, 2019, AS
‘‘SILVER STAR SERVICE BANNER
DAY’’
Mr. BLUNT (for himself and Mr.
HAWLEY) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 166
Whereas the Senate has always honored
the sacrifices made by the wounded and ill
members of the Armed Forces;
Whereas the Silver Star Service Banner
has come to represent the members of the
Armed Forces and veterans who were wound-
ed or became ill in combat in the wars
fought by the United States;
Whereas the Silver Star Families of Amer-
ica was formed to help the people of the
United States remember the sacrifices made
by the wounded and ill members of the
Armed Forces by designing and manufac-
turing Silver Star Service Banners and Sil-
ver Star Flags for that purpose;
Whereas the sole mission of the Silver Star
Families of America is to evoke memories of
the sacrifices made by members of the
Armed Forces and veterans on behalf of the
United States through the presence of a Sil-
ver Star Service Banner in a window or a Sil-
ver Star Flag flying;
Whereas the sacrifices made by members of
the Armed Forces and veterans on behalf of
the United States should never be forgotten;
and
Whereas May 1, 2019, is an appropriate date
to designate as ‘‘Silver Star Service Banner
Day’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the designation of May 1, 2019,
as ‘‘Silver Star Service Banner Day’’; and
(2) calls upon the people of the United
States to observe Silver Star Service Banner
Day with appropriate programs, ceremonies,
and activities.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 167—DESIG-
NATING THE WEEK OF APRIL 20,
2019, THROUGH APRIL 28, 2019, AS
‘‘NATIONAL PARK WEEK’’
Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. KING,
Mr. CRAMER, Mr. BENNET, Mr.
PORTMAN, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr.
GARDNER, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. ALEX-
ANDER, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. BLUNT, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. REED, Mr. HOEVEN, Ms. STA-
BENOW, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. UDALL, Ms.
MCSALLY, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, Mr. WARNER, Mr. ENZI, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. BOOZMAN, Ms. COLLINS,
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr. TILLIS, Ms.
CANTWELL, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. HASSAN,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
WICKER, and Mr. BROWN) submitted the
following resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 167
Whereas, on March 1, 1872, Congress estab-
lished Yellowstone National Park as the first
national park for the enjoyment of the peo-
ple of the United States;
Whereas, on August 25, 1916, Congress es-
tablished the National Park Service with the
mission to preserve unimpaired the natural
and cultural resources and values of the Na-
tional Park System for the enjoyment, edu-
cation, and inspiration of current and future
generations;
Whereas the National Park Service con-
tinues to protect and manage the majestic
landscapes, hallowed battlefields, and iconic
cultural and historical sites of the United
States;
Whereas the units of the National Park
System can be found in every State and
many territories of the United States and
many of the units embody the rich natural
and cultural heritage of the United States,
reflect a unique national story through peo-
ple and places, and offer countless opportuni-
ties for recreation, volunteerism, cultural
exchange, education, civic engagement, and
exploration;
Whereas the national parks of the United
States continue to attract record-breaking
numbers of visitors, with approximately
318,200,000 recreational visits to these incred-
ible places in 2018, the third highest level
since recordkeeping began in 1904;
Whereas visits and visitors to the national
parks of the United States are important
economic drivers for the economy, respon-
sible for an estimated $18,200,000,000 in spend-
ing in 2017;
Whereas the dedicated employees of the
National Park Service carry out their mis-
sion to protect the national parks of the
United States so that the vibrant culture, di-
verse wildlife, and priceless resources of the
parks will endure for perpetuity; and
Whereas the people of the United States
have inherited the remarkable legacy of the
National Park System and are entrusted
with the preservation of the National Park
System throughout its second century: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates the week of April 20, 2019,
through April 28, 2019, as ‘‘National Park
Week’’; and
(2) encourages the people of the United
States and the world to visit and experience
the treasured national parks of the United
States.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 168—DESIG-
NATING APRIL 2019 AS ‘‘FINAN-
CIAL LITERACY MONTH’’
Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. SCOTT of
South Carolina, Mr. JONES, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr.
BRAUN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mrs. CAPITO,
Mr. CARDIN, Mr. CARPER, Mr. CASSIDY,
Mr. COONS, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. CRAPO,
Mr. DURBIN, Mr. ENZI, Ms. ERNST, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Ms. HASSAN, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr. MENENDEZ,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. PETERS, Mr. ROB-
ERTS, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. TESTER, Mr.
TILLIS, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. WICKER,
Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. PERDUE) submitted
the following resolution; which was
considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 168
Whereas, according to the report entitled
‘‘Economic Well-Being of U.S. Households’’
by the Board of Governors of the Federal Re-
serve System, 40 percent of adults in the
United States cannot cover an unexpected
expense of $400;
Whereas, according to the report entitled
‘‘2017 National Survey of Unbanked and
Underbanked Households’’ by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation, approxi-
mately 25 percent of households in the
United States are unbanked or underbanked
and therefore have limited or no access to
savings, lending, and other basic financial
services;
Whereas, according to the 2018 Consumer
Financial Literacy Survey final report of the
National Foundation for Credit Counseling—
(1) a majority (61 percent) of adults in the
United States had credit card debt during
the 1-year period ending on the date of publi-
cation of the report;
(2) nearly 2⁄5 (38 percent) of adults in the
United States carry credit card debt from
month to month; and
(3) approximately 41 percent of adults in
the United States maintain a budget;
Whereas, according to the statistical re-
lease of the Board of Governors of the Fed-
eral Reserve System for the fourth quarter
of 2018 entitled ‘‘Household Debt and Cred-
it’’—
(1) outstanding household debt in the
United States was $869,000,000,000 higher than
the previous peak of $12,680,000,000,000 in the
third quarter of 2008; and
(2) outstanding student loan balances have
more than doubled in the last decade to ap-
proximately $1,500,000,000,000;
Whereas, according to the 2018 report enti-
tled ‘‘Survey of the States: Economic and
Personal Finance Education in Our Nation’s
Schools’’, the most recent biennial report of
that name by the Council for Economic Edu-
cation—
(1) only 22 States require students to take
an economics course as a high school gradua-
tion requirement; and
(2) only 17 States require students to take
a personal finance course as a high school
graduation requirement, either independ-
ently or as part of an economics course;
Whereas, according to the Gallup-HOPE
Index, only 57 percent of students in the
United States have money in a bank or cred-
it union account;
Whereas expanding access to the safe,
mainstream financial system will provide in-
dividuals with less expensive and more se-
cure options for managing finances and
building wealth;
Whereas quality personal financial edu-
cation is essential to ensure that individuals
are prepared—
(1) to manage money, credit, and debt; and
(2) to become responsible workers, heads of
household, investors, entrepreneurs, business
leaders, and citizens;
Whereas increased financial literacy—
(1) empowers individuals to make wise fi-
nancial decisions; and
(2) reduces the confusion caused by an in-
creasingly complex economy;
Whereas a greater understanding of, and
familiarity with, financial markets and in-
stitutions will lead to increased economic
activity and growth; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.059 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2444 April 11, 2019
Whereas, in 2003, Congress—
(1) determined that coordinating Federal
financial literacy efforts and formulating a
national strategy is important; and
(2) in light of that determination, passed
the Financial Literacy and Education Im-
provement Act (20 U.S.C. 9701 et seq.), estab-
lishing the Financial Literacy and Education
Commission: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates April 2019 as ‘‘Financial Lit-
eracy Month’’ to raise public awareness
about—
(A) the importance of personal financial
education in the United States; and
(B) the serious consequences that may re-
sult from a lack of understanding about per-
sonal finances; and
(2) calls on the Federal Government,
States, localities, schools, nonprofit organi-
zations, businesses, and the people of the
United States to observe Financial Literacy
Month with appropriate programs and activi-
ties.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 169—RE-
QUESTING A STATEMENT UNDER
SECTION 502B(C) OF THE FOR-
EIGN ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1961
WITH RESPECT TO VIOLATIONS
OF HUMAN RIGHTS BY THE GOV-
ERNMENT OF SAUDI ARABIA
Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. DURBIN, Mr.
WYDEN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Mr. KAINE)
submitted the following resolution;
which was referred to the Committee
on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 169
Whereas, on December 13, 2018, the Senate
unanimously agreed to Senate Joint Resolu-
tion 69, 115th Congress, stating that the Sen-
ate ‘‘believes Crown Prince Mohammed bin
Salman is responsible for the murder of
Jamal Khashoggi’’, a United States resident
and renowned journalist;
Whereas the President has not met his ob-
ligation to determine whether any foreign
person, including the highest ranking offi-
cials in the Government of Saudi Arabia, is
responsible for the gross violation of Mr.
Khashoggi’s internationally recognized
human rights;
Whereas the Government of Saudi Arabia
has yet to publicly identify the 11 individ-
uals indicted in connection with the killing
of Mr. Khashoggi, 5 of whom will reportedly
face the death penalty if convicted;
Whereas, on March 12, 2018, the Govern-
ment of Saudi Arabia formally charged 10
women’s rights activists on charges of sup-
porting ‘‘hostile elements’’, after being de-
tained since May 2018 with no charges
brought;
Whereas reputable human rights non-
governmental organizations allege that au-
thorities of the Government of Saudi Arabia
have tortured at least 4 of the 10 women’s
rights activists including the leader of the
successful movement to grant women the
rights to drive in Saudi Arabia, Aziza al-
Yousef;
Whereas Samar Badawi, who was awarded
the International Women of Courage Award
by the Secretary of State in 2012 for her ef-
forts to reform the discriminatory male
guardianship system in Saudi Arabia, is also
among the group of 10 women’s rights activ-
ists facing charges;
Whereas the Government of Saudi Arabia
has detained not fewer than 120 peaceful ad-
vocates, including blogger Raif Badawi and
human rights lawyer Waleed Abu al-Khair,
part of a disturbing pattern of human rights
violations by that Government detailed in 59
pages of the 2018 Country Reports on Human
Rights Practices of the Department of State;
Whereas the 2018 Country Reports on
Human Rights Practices highlight human
rights violations by the Government of
Saudi Arabia, including—
(1) executions for nonviolent offenses;
(2) forced renditions;
(3) forced disappearances;
(4) torture of prisoners and detainees by
government agents;
(5) arbitrary arrest and detention;
(6) arrest and detention of political pris-
oners;
(7) restrictions on the freedoms of peaceful
assembly, association, and movement;
(8) severe restrictions of religious freedom;
(9) citizens’ lack of ability and legal means
to choose their government through free and
fair elections;
(10) trafficking in persons;
(11) violence and official discrimination
against women; and
(12) criminalization of consensual same-sex
sexual activity;
Whereas the 2018 Country Reports on
Human Rights Practices also reference an
August 2018 study, commissioned by the
United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights, which—
(1) found that the military coalition led by
Saudi Arabia was responsible for the major-
ity of the civilian casualties in Yemen that
the United Nations was able to verify from
March 2015 to June 2018; and
(2) concluded that the coalition’s repeated
failures to avoid civilian casualties and exer-
cise the proportionate use of military force
violate international humanitarian law and
may amount to war crimes;
Whereas that study also—
(1) found that the military coalition re-
stricted the flow of food, medical supplies,
and fuel through Yemen’s critical ports of
Hudaydah and Mokha, and forced the closure
of Sana’a International Airport; and
(2) stated, ‘‘Given the severe humanitarian
impact that the de facto blockades have had
on the civilian population and in the absence
of any verifiable military impact, they con-
stitute a violation of the proportionality
rule of international humanitarian law.’’;
Whereas section 620I(a) of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2378–1(a)),
states that no assistance shall be furnished
under that Act or the Arms Export Control
Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) to any country
‘‘when it is made known to the President
that the government of such country pro-
hibits or otherwise restricts, directly or indi-
rectly, the transport or delivery of United
States humanitarian assistance’’;
Whereas subsection (a)(2) of section 502B of
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C.
2304) states that ‘‘no security assistance may
be provided to any country the government
of which engages in a consistent pattern of
gross violations of internationally recog-
nized human rights’’; and
Whereas subsection (d)(1) of that section
defines the term ‘‘gross violations of inter-
national recognized human rights’’ to in-
clude ‘‘torture or cruel, inhuman, or degrad-
ing treatment or punishment, prolonged de-
tention without charges and trial, causing
the disappearance of persons by the abduc-
tion and clandestine detention of those per-
sons, and other flagrant denial of the right
to life, liberty, or the security of person’’:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That—
(1) it is the sense of the Senate that—
(A) the President should fully comply with
the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Ac-
countability Act (subtitle F of title XII of
Public Law 114–328; 22 U.S.C. 2656 note) by
issuing a determination, in response to the
request submitted to the President on Octo-
ber 10, 2018, under section 1263(d) of that Act,
with respect to the involvement of high-
ranking officials of the Government of Saudi
Arabia, including Crown Prince Mohammed
bin Salman, in the killing of Jamal
Khashoggi; and
(B) the United States should call upon the
Government of Saudi Arabia—
(i) to release all peaceful human rights ac-
tivists, journalists, and religious minorities
held in detention by that Government; and
(ii) to take actions that reverse that Gov-
ernment’s gross violation of internationally
recognized human rights; and
(2) pursuant to section 502B(c)(1) of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C.
2304(c)(1)), the Senate requests the Secretary
of State to submit to Congress, in unclassi-
fied form, but with a classified annex if nec-
essary, a statement with respect to Saudi
Arabia setting forth—
(A) the matters described in subparagraphs
(A), (B), and (C) of such section; and
(B) pursuant to subparagraph (D) of such
section—
(i) information on the involvement of the
highest-ranking officials in the Government
of Saudi Arabia, including Crown Prince Mo-
hammed bin Salman, in the murder of Jamal
Khashoggi;
(ii) information on the measures the Gov-
ernment of Saudi Arabia is taking to allevi-
ate the humanitarian crisis in Yemen by in-
creasing access for Yemenis to food, fuel,
medicine, and medical evacuation, including
through the appropriate use of Yemen’s Red
Sea ports, including the port of Hudaydah,
the airport in Sana’a, and external border
crossings with Saudi Arabia;
(iii) information on actions the Govern-
ment of Saudi Arabia is taking to reduce the
risk of harm to civilians and civilian infra-
structure resulting from military operations
of that Government in Yemen, including
by—
(I) complying with applicable agreements
and laws regulating defense articles pur-
chased or transferred from the United
States; and
(II) taking appropriate steps to avoid dis-
proportionate harm to civilians and civilian
infrastructure; and
(iv) information on each incident for which
the Joint Incidents Assessment Team in
Yemen has reached a conclusion.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 170—RECOG-
NIZING THE FIFTH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE CHIBOK GIRLS
KIDNAPPING BY THE BOKO
HARAM TERRORIST ORGANIZA-
TION AND CALLING ON THE GOV-
ERNMENT OF NIGERIA TO RE-
DOUBLE EFFORTS TO BRING AN
END TO THE CONFLICT IN
NORTHEAST AND CENTRAL NI-
GERIA AND TO PROVIDE ASSIST-
ANCE TO THE VICTIMS
Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. COLLINS, and
Mrs. SHAHEEN) submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 170
Whereas the Boko Haram is a Nigeria-
based militant group with links to Al-Qaeda
in the Islamic Maghreb and the Islamic
State;
Whereas Boko Haram’s campaign of mass
and systemic brutality has led to the deaths
of tens of thousands of individuals in north-
east and central Nigeria and, according to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.061 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2445
April 11, 2019
the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees, has caused the displacement of
2,400,000 people in Nigeria, Cameroon, Chad,
and Niger;
Whereas the Department of State des-
ignated Boko Haram as a Foreign Terrorist
Organization in 2013, and supports efforts to
defeat Boko Haram with security and devel-
opment tools;
Whereas Boko Haram rejects modern edu-
cation and science, is engaged in an armed
revolt against the Government of Nigeria,
and has carried out vicious campaigns of vio-
lence against schools, public institutions,
law enforcement, and civilians;
Whereas, since 2012, Boko Haram has con-
ducted brutal mass kidnappings of women,
girls, and boys, and has abducted thousands
of women and girls from schools and mar-
kets, during raids on villages and houses,
and on public transportation;
Whereas, on April 14, 2014, Boko Haram
militants attacked a boarding school in
Chibok in Borno State, where girls from sur-
rounding areas had gathered to take final
exams;
Whereas the Boko Haram terrorists arrived
in Chibok late at night, fired their guns in-
discriminately, burned down houses, raided
the dormitories, and kidnapped 276 girls who
were between 12 and 17 years of age;
Whereas 57 girls escaped by running into
the forest or jumping off the kidnappers’
trucks as they were driving away;
Whereas the 219 kidnapped girls were held
captive, abused, enslaved, repeatedly raped,
starved, and, in some cases, forcibly con-
verted to Islam and married to their captors;
Whereas child, early, and forced marriages
are serious human rights violations;
Whereas the international community, in-
cluding the United Nations Secretary-Gen-
eral and the United Nations Security Coun-
cil, condemned the abduction and called for
the immediate release of the girls;
Whereas Boko Haram ruthlessly killed
some of the kidnapped girls for trying to es-
cape, while other girls died during childbirth
while in captivity;
Whereas thousands of women, girls, and
boys kidnapped by Boko Haram have en-
dured similar horrific experiences;
Whereas the parents of the kidnapped girls
and concerned citizens banded together and
embarked upon a global awareness campaign
to urge the rescue of the girls, using the
Twitter hashtag #BringBackOurGirls,
through which more than 3,300,000 people
around the world expressed their outrage at
the abductions and continue maintaining a
vigil for the girls’ return to their families;
Whereas the United States Government
sent advisors to Nigeria and supplied surveil-
lance and reconnaissance to help rescue the
girls;
Whereas 21 of the kidnapped girls were re-
leased in October 2016, and an additional 82
girls were released in May 2017;
Whereas nearly 5 years since their abduc-
tion, more than 100 girls remain in captivity
and are subjected to deplorable abuses as re-
counted by the girls who have been released;
Whereas many of the released girls are
being kept in a government facility in Abuja
away from their families;
Whereas despite claims by the Government
of Nigeria that Boko Haram had been de-
feated, the terrorist organization continues
to mount attacks against civilians, schools,
and security forces;
Whereas Boko Haram has increasingly
used children, including girls, in suicide at-
tacks; with 158 children used in 2017, a sig-
nificant increase from the 19 used for such
purpose in 2016;
Whereas Boko Haram continues to abduct
women and girls in the northern region of
Nigeria, routinely forcing girls to choose be-
tween forced marriages to its fighters (for
the purpose of sexual slavery) or becoming
suicide bombers;
Whereas on February 19, 2018, Boko Haram
militants stormed the town of Dapchi and
abducted 110 girls from the Government
Girls Science and Technical School and 2
other children;
Whereas 106 of the children from the
Dapchi kidnapping have been released and 5
of the children are presumed to have died in
captivity;
Whereas Leah Sharibu remains a hostage
because she refuses to convert to Islam;
Whereas a surge in violence at the end of
2018 has resulted in the displacement of an
additional 80,000 people, further burdening
already overwhelmed communities and hu-
manitarian services;
Whereas according to the International
Committee of the Red Cross and the Nigerian
Red Cross Society, an estimated 17,000 indi-
viduals from Nigeria are missing, including
7,100 children;
Whereas for several years the United
States Government has provided assistance
for women and girls targeted by Boko Haram
and individuals displaced by Boko Haram vi-
olence, and has assisted in combating Boko
Haram;
Whereas in section 1(c) of Public Law 114–
266 (130 Stat. 1383), Congress stated that
‘‘lack of economic opportunity and access to
education, justice, and other social services
contributes to the ability of Boko Haram to
radicalize and recruit individuals’’;
Whereas educating girls transforms soci-
eties for the better by giving girls the knowl-
edge and tools to make positive decisions
about their futures, live healthier lives, pro-
vide nurturing environments for their fami-
lies, and play active roles in their commu-
nities and economies;
Whereas the United States Government
has appropriated $11,000,000 in fiscal years
2017 and 2018 for programs to combat child
marriage;
Whereas in section 2 of the Women, Peace,
and Security Act of 2017 (Public Law 115–68;
131 Stat. 1202), Congress found that ‘‘[w]omen
in conflict-affected regions have achieved
significant success in . . . moderating vio-
lent extremism . . . and stabilizing societies
by enhancing the effectiveness of security
services, peacekeeping efforts, institutions,
and decisionmaking processes’’; and
Whereas section 4 of the Women, Peace,
and Security Act of 2017 (22 U.S.C. 2152j)
states, ‘‘It shall be the policy of the United
States to promote the meaningful participa-
tion of women in all aspects of overseas con-
flict prevention, management, and resolu-
tion, and post-conflict relief and recovery ef-
forts’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes the tragic fifth anniversary
of the Chibok girls kidnapping and calls for
the immediate release of all Boko Haram
captives, especially the remaining Chibok
girls and Leah Sharibu;
(2) applauds the extraordinary bravery of
survivors of Boko Haram, who continue to
come forward to share their stories and expe-
riences at great personal risk;
(3) urges the Government of Nigeria, in co-
operation with regional partners and the
international community, to redouble efforts
to defeat Boko Haram;
(4) calls on the Government of Nigeria—
(A) to prioritize the recovery of women and
girls who have been abducted and enslaved
by Boko Haram;
(B) to work to determine the whereabouts
of the thousands of missing people in Nigeria
and provide a full accounting of the number
of missing girls;
(C) to undertake concrete efforts to reduce
the stigmatization and marginalization of
those abducted by Boko Haram and provide
counseling and support;
(D) to allow women and girls to be reunited
with their families whenever appropriate;
(E) to appropriately channel $1,000,000,000
from the Excess Crude Account, as approved
by the Nigerian State Governors in Decem-
ber 2017, to humanitarian assistance, devel-
opment, education, and deradicalization pro-
grams; and
(F) to accept international assistance in a
timely manner when offered;
(5) encourages continued efforts by the
United States Government to defeat Boko
Haram through development and security
partnerships with Nigeria and other regional
partners;
(6) calls on the Department of State and
the Department of Defense to rapidly imple-
ment the 5-year regional strategy required
under Public Law 114-266 to address the
grievous threat posed by Boko Haram and
other violent extremist organizations;
(7) requests the Department of State and
the United States Agency for International
Development to meet their obligation under
section 7059(e)(2) of the Department of State,
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs
Appropriations Act, 2017 (division J of Public
Law 115–31) to create a strategy to address
the needs of women and girls adversely im-
pacted by extremism and conflict;
(8) requests that the Department of State
track and report the number of missing per-
sons kidnapped by Boko Haram and include
such information in its annual Trafficking in
Persons Report; and
(9) commends the swift enactment of the
Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017
(Public Law 115–68), and encourages the
President to immediately release the
Women, Peace, and Security Strategy re-
quired under section 5 of such Act (22 U.S.C.
2152j–1).
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 171—EX-
PRESSING THE SENSE OF CON-
GRESS REGARDING RESTORING
UNITED STATES BILATERAL AS-
SISTANCE TO THE WEST BANK
AND GAZA
Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
COONS, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, and Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 171
Whereas the dire health and economic con-
ditions facing the Palestinian people has cre-
ated a humanitarian crisis in the West Bank
and Gaza. The United States has long been a
leader in helping address the plight of inno-
cent civilians;
Whereas these fragile conditions could con-
tribute to circumstances that would under-
mine Israel’s security and stability in the re-
gion;
Whereas the Palestinian Authority’s inter-
pretation of the Anti-Terrorism Clarification
Act (Public Law 115–253), which sought to
help United States victims of terrorism
abroad, led the Palestinian Authority to re-
ject all forms of United States assistance,
meaning that funding for organizations im-
plementing humanitarian aid programs that
provide critical services, such as health care
and sanitation to civilians, cannot be carried
out; and
Whereas the Department of State has
failed to obligate any of the funds Congress
appropriated in fiscal year 2017 and fiscal
year 2018, $302,750,000 and $257,500,000, respec-
tively, for bilateral assistance to the West
Bank and Gaza: Now, therefore, be it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.063 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2446 April 11, 2019
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that—
(1) the Executive branch should expend be-
fore the end of fiscal year 2019 all bilateral
assistance to the West Bank and Gaza that
Congress appropriated for such assistance in
fiscal year 2018, including —
(A) $196,500,000 for the Economic Support
Fund;
(B) $60,000,000 for International Narcotics
Control and Law Enforcement; and
(C) $1,000,000 for Nonproliferation, Anti-
Terrorism, Demining and Related Programs;
(2) programs and activities funded by the
Economic Support Fund as described above
are focused primarily on providing food, es-
sential health services, and other humani-
tarian goods and services, and these expendi-
tures must be consistent with the restric-
tions and exceptions provided in the Taylor
Force Act (title X of division S of Public
Law 115–141); and
(3) legislation should be enacted to clarify
that programs and activities funded through
the Economic Support Fund and that are
consistent with the Taylor Force Act (title X
of division S of Public Law 115–141) may not
be used as a basis to assert jurisdiction over
the Palestinian Authority pursuant to the
Anti-Terrorism Clarification Act.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 14—AUTHORIZING THE USE
OF EMANCIPATION HALL IN THE
CAPITOL VISITOR CENTER FOR
AN EVENT TO CELEBRATE THE
BIRTHDAY OF KING KAMEHA-
MEHA I
Mr. SCHATZ (for himself and Ms.
HIRONO) submitted the following con-
current resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. CON. RES. 14
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring),
SECTION 1. USE OF EMANCIPATION HALL FOR
EVENT TO CELEBRATE BIRTHDAY
OF KING KAMEHAMEHA I.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—Emancipation Hall in
the Capitol Visitor Center is authorized to be
used on June 9, 2019, for an event to celebrate
the birthday of King Kamehameha I.
(b) PREPARATIONS.—Physical preparations
for the conduct of the event described in sub-
section (a) shall be carried out in accordance
with such conditions as may be prescribed by
the Architect of the Capitol.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 248. Mr. SCHUMER (for himself, Mr
LEAHY, Mr SANDERS, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms.
HIRONO, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
Ms. SMITH, Ms. WARREN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. MERKLEY, and Mr. DURBIN)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by him to the bill H.R. 268, making
suppplemental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes, which was ordered to lie on the
table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 248. Mr. SCHUMER (for himself,
Mr. LEAHY, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. SCHATZ,
Ms. HIRONO, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. SMITH, Ms. WARREN,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
MERKLEY, and Mr. DURBIN) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by him to the bill H.R. 268, making
supplemental appropriations for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table, as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
That the following sums are hereby appro-
priated, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, and out of appli-
cable corporate or other revenues, receipts,
and funds, for the several departments, agen-
cies, corporations, and other organizational
units of Government for fiscal year 2019, and
for other purposes, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
PROCESSING, RESEARCH AND MARKETING
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Office of
the Secretary’’, $3,005,442,000, which shall re-
main available until December 31, 2020, for
necessary expenses related to losses of crops
(including milk, on-farm stored commod-
ities, and harvested adulterated wine
grapes), trees, bushes, and vines, as a con-
sequence of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence, other hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, ty-
phoons, volcanic activity, snowstorms, and
wildfires occurring in calendar years 2018 and
2019 under such terms and conditions as de-
termined by the Secretary: Provided, That
the Secretary may provide assistance for
such losses in the form of block grants to eli-
gible states and territories and such assist-
ance may include compensation to pro-
ducers, as determined by the Secretary, for
past or future crop insurance premiums, for-
est restoration, and poultry and livestock
losses: Provided further, That of the amounts
provided under this heading, tree assistance
payments may be made under section 1501(e)
of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C.
9081(e)) to eligible orchardists or nursery
tree growers (as defined in such section) of
pecan trees with a tree mortality rate that
exceeds 7.5 percent (adjusted for normal mor-
tality) and is less than 15 percent (adjusted
for normal mortality), to be available until
expended, for losses incurred during the pe-
riod beginning January 1, 2018, and ending
December 31, 2018: Provided further, That in
the case of producers impacted by volcanic
activity that resulted in the loss of crop
land, or access to crop land, the Secretary
shall consider all measures available, as ap-
propriate, to bring replacement land into
production: Provided further, That the total
amount of payments received under this
heading and applicable policies of crop insur-
ance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7
U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) or the Noninsured Crop
Disaster Assistance Program (NAP) under
section 196 of the Federal Agriculture Im-
provement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C.
7333) shall not exceed 90 percent of the loss
as determined by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That the total amount of payments re-
ceived under this heading for producers who
did not obtain a policy or plan of insurance
for an insurable commodity for the applica-
ble crop year under the Federal Crop Insur-
ance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) for the crop
incurring the losses or did not file the re-
quired paperwork and pay the service fee by
the applicable State filing deadline for a
noninsurable commodity for the applicable
crop year under NAP for the crop incurring
the losses shall not exceed 70 percent of the
loss as determined by the Secretary: Provided
further, That producers receiving payments
under this heading, as determined by the
Secretary, shall be required to purchase crop
insurance where crop insurance is available
for the next two available crop years, exclud-
ing tree insurance policies, and producers re-
ceiving payments under this heading shall be
required to purchase coverage under NAP
where crop insurance is not available in the
next two available crop years, as determined
by the Secretary: Provided further, That, not
later than 120 days after the end of fiscal
year 2019, the Secretary shall submit a re-
port to the Congress specifying the type,
amount, and method of such assistance by
state and territory: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
FARM SERVICE AGENCY
EMERGENCY FOREST RESTORATION PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Emer-
gency Forest Restoration Program’’, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Michael and Florence and
wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018, and
other natural disasters, $480,000,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION
OPERATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Watershed
and Flood Prevention Operations’’, for nec-
essary expenses for the Emergency Water-
shed Protection Program related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $125,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
RURAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for the cost of
grants for rural community facilities pro-
grams as authorized by section 306 and de-
scribed in section 381E(d)(1) of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $150,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act are
not applicable to the funds made available
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 101. In addition to other amounts
made available by section 309 of division A of
the Additional Supplemental Appropriations
for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, 2017
(Public Law 115–72; 131 Stat. 1229), there is
hereby appropriated $600,000,000 for the Sec-
retary of Agriculture to provide a grant to
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico for dis-
aster nutrition assistance in response to
Presidentially declared major disasters and
emergencies: Provided, That the funds made
available to the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico under this section shall remain avail-
able for obligation by the Commonwealth
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.064 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2447
April 11, 2019
until September 30, 2020, and shall be in addi-
tion to funds otherwise made available: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 102. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available, out of the funds made avail-
able under section 18 of the Food and Nutri-
tion Act of 2008, $25,200,000 shall be available
for the Secretary to provide a grant to the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands for disaster nutrition assistance in re-
sponse to the Presidentially declared major
disasters and emergencies: Provided, That
funds made available to the Commonwealth
of the Northern Mariana Islands under this
section shall remain available for obligation
by the Commonwealth until September 30,
2020: Provided further, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 103. For purposes of administering
title I of subdivision 1 of division B of the Bi-
partisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–
123), losses to agricultural producers result-
ing from hurricanes shall also include losses
of peach and blueberry crops in calendar
year 2017 due to extreme cold: Provided, That
the amounts provided by this section are
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 104. (a)(1) Except as provided in para-
graph (2), a person or legal entity is not eli-
gible to receive a payment under the Market
Facilitation Program established pursuant
to the Commodity Credit Corporation Char-
ter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 et seq.) if the average
adjusted gross income of such person or legal
entity is greater than $900,000.
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a per-
son or legal entity if at least 75 percent of
the adjusted gross income of such person or
legal entity is derived from farming, ranch-
ing, or forestry related activities.
(b) A person or legal entity may not re-
ceive a payment under the Market Facilita-
tion Program described in subsection (a)(1),
directly or indirectly, of more than $125,000.
(c) In this section, the term ‘‘average ad-
justed gross income’’ has the meaning given
the term defined in section 760.1502 of title 7
Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect
July 18, 2018).
(d) The amount provided by this section is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 105. There is hereby appropriated
$5,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for the Secretary of Agri-
culture to conduct an independent study, in-
cluding a survey of participants, to compare
the impact of the additional benefits pro-
vided by section 309 of Public Law 115–72 to
the food insecurity, health status, and well-
being of low-income residents in Puerto Rico
without such additional benefits: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
SEC. 106. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available, out of the funds made avail-
able under section 18 of the Food and Nutri-
tion Act of 2008, $5,000,000 shall be available
for the Secretary to provide a grant to
American Samoa for disaster nutrition as-
sistance in response to the presidentially de-
clared major disasters and emergencies: Pro-
vided, That funds made available to the terri-
tory under this section shall remain avail-
able for obligation by the territory until
September 30, 2020: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
SEC. 107. For an additional amount for the
‘‘Emergency Conservation Program’’, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and of wildfires occurring in calendar
year 2018, and other natural disasters,
$500,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Pursuant to section 703 of the Public
Works and Economic Development Act (42
U.S.C. 3233), for an additional amount for
‘‘Economic Development Assistance Pro-
grams’’ for necessary expenses related to
flood mitigation, disaster relief, long-term
recovery, and restoration of infrastructure
in areas that received a major disaster des-
ignation as a result of Hurricanes Florence,
Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu and
Mangkhut, and of wildfires, volcanic erup-
tions, earthquakes, and other natural disas-
ters occurring in calendar year 2018, and tor-
nadoes and floods occurring in calendar year
2019 under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), $600,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That within the
amount appropriated, up to 2 percent of
funds may be transferred to the ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ account for administration
and oversight activities: Provided further,
That within the amount appropriated,
$1,000,000 shall be transferred to the ‘‘Office
of Inspector General’’ account for carrying
out investigations and audits related to the
funding provided under this heading.
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations,
Research, and Facilities’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu,
and of wildfires, $120,570,000, to remain avail-
able until September 30, 2020, as follows:
(1) $3,000,000 for repair and replacement of
observing assets, real property, and equip-
ment;
(2) $11,000,000 for marine debris assessment
and removal;
(3) $31,570,000 for mapping, charting, and
geodesy services;
(4) $25,000,000 to improve: (a) hurricane in-
tensity forecasting, including through de-
ployment of unmanned ocean observing plat-
forms and enhanced data assimilation; (b)
flood prediction, forecasting, and mitigation
capabilities; and (c) wildfire prediction, de-
tection, and forecasting; and
(5) $50,000,000 for Title IX Fund grants as
authorized under section 906(c) of division O
of Public Law 114–113:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985: Provided further,
That the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration shall submit a spending plan
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate for
funding provided under subsection (4) of this
heading within 45 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Acquisition and Construction’’,
$25,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, for improvements to oper-
ational and research weather supercom-
puting infrastructure and satellite ground
services used for hurricane intensity and
track prediction; flood prediction, fore-
casting, and mitigation; and wildfire pre-
diction, detection, and forecasting: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion shall submit a spending plan to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate within 45
days after the date of enactment of this Act.
FISHERY DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Fishery
Disaster Assistance’’ for necessary expenses
associated with the mitigation of fishery dis-
asters, $150,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That funds shall be used
for mitigating the effects of commercial fish-
ery failures and fishery resource disasters
declared by the Secretary of Commerce, in-
cluding those declared by the Secretary to be
a direct result of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael and Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Florence
and Michael and Typhoon Yutu, $1,336,000:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Buildings
and Facilities’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoon Yutu,
$28,400,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.067 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2448 April 11, 2019
RELATED AGENCIES
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Payment to
the Legal Services Corporation’’ to carry out
the purposes of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion Act by providing for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence, Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu
and Mangkhut, calendar year 2018 wildfires,
volcanic eruptions, and earthquakes, and
calendar year 2019 tornadoes and floods,
$15,000,000: Provided, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That none of the funds appro-
priated in this Act to the Legal Services Cor-
poration shall be expended for any purpose
prohibited or limited by, or contrary to any
of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504,
505, and 506 of Public Law 105–119, and all
funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal
Services Corporation shall be subject to the
same terms and conditions set forth in such
sections, except that all references in sec-
tions 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be
deemed to refer instead to 2018 and 2019, re-
spectively, and except that sections 501 and
503 of Public Law 104–134 (referenced by Pub-
lic Law 105–119) shall not apply to the
amount made available under this heading:
Provided further, That, for the purposes of
this Act, the Legal Services Corporation
shall be considered an agency of the United
States Government.
TITLE III
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Marine Corps’’,
$200,000,000, for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Michael and
Florence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That notwithstanding section
284 of title 10, United States Code, or any
other provision of law, funds made available
under this heading may only be used for the
purposes specifically described under this
heading.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance, Air Force’’, $400,000,000, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That notwithstanding section
284 of title 10, United States Code, or any
other provision of law, funds made available
under this heading may only be used for the
purposes specifically described under this
heading.
TITLE IV
CORPS OF ENGINEERS—CIVIL
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
INVESTIGATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Investiga-
tions’’ for necessary expenses related to the
completion, or initiation and completion, of
flood and storm damage reduction, including
shore protection, studies which are currently
authorized or which are authorized after the
date of enactment of this Act, to reduce risk
from future floods and hurricanes, at full
Federal expense, $35,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, in States and insular
areas that were impacted by Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, and Tropical Storm
Gita: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House and the Sen-
ate detailing the allocation and obligation of
these funds, including new studies selected
to be initiated using funds provided under
this heading, beginning not later than 60
days after the date of enactment of this Act.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses, $740,000,000, to
remain available until expended, to con-
struct flood and storm damage reduction, in-
cluding shore protection, projects which are
currently authorized or which are authorized
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
flood and storm damage reduction, including
shore protection, projects which have signed
Chief’s Reports as of the date of enactment
of this Act or which are studied using funds
provided under the heading ‘‘Investigations’’
if the Secretary determines such projects to
be technically feasible, economically justi-
fied, and environmentally acceptable, in
States and insular areas that were impacted
by Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Ty-
phoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and
Tropical Storm Gita: Provided, That projects
receiving funds provided under the first pro-
viso in ‘‘Corps of Engineers–Civil—Depart-
ment of the Army—Construction’’ in Public
Law 115–123 shall not be eligible for funding
provided under this heading: Provided further,
That for projects receiving funding under
this heading, the provisions of section 902 of
the Water Resources Development Act of
1986 shall not apply to these funds: Provided
further, That the completion of ongoing con-
struction projects receiving funds provided
under this heading shall be at full Federal
expense with respect to such funds: Provided
further, That using funds provided under this
heading, the non-Federal cash contribution
for projects other than ongoing construction
projects shall be financed in accordance with
the provisions of section 103(k) of Public Law
99–662 over a period of 30 years from the date
of completion of the project or separable ele-
ment: Provided further, That of this amount,
$45,000,000 shall be used to initiate, at full
Federal expense, construction of authorized
Corps of Engineers ecosystem restoration
projects that have incidental flood risk man-
agement benefits in areas impacted by Hur-
ricanes Irma and Maria: Provided further,
That up to $25,000,000 of the funds made
available under this heading shall be used for
continuing authorities projects to reduce the
risk of flooding and storm damage: Provided
further, That any projects using funds appro-
priated under this heading shall be initiated
only after non-Federal interests have en-
tered into binding agreements with the Sec-
retary requiring, where applicable, the non-
Federal interests to pay 100 percent of the
operation, maintenance, repair, replacement,
and rehabilitation costs of the project and to
hold and save the United States free from
damages due to the construction or oper-
ation and maintenance of the project, except
for damages due to the fault or negligence of
the United States or its contractors: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works shall provide a
monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act.
MISSISSIPPI RIVER AND TRIBUTARIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Mississippi
River and Tributaries’’ for necessary ex-
penses to address emergency situations at
Corps of Engineers projects and rehabilitate
and repair damages to Corps of Engineers
projects, caused by natural disasters, includ-
ing disasters in 2019, $575,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That the Assistant
Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall
provide a monthly report directly to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate detailing
the allocation and obligation of these funds,
beginning not later than 60 days after the
date of enactment of this Act.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation
and Maintenance’’ for necessary expenses to
dredge Federal navigation projects in re-
sponse to, and repair damages to Corps of
Engineers Federal projects caused by, nat-
ural disasters, including disasters in 2019,
$908,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which such sums as are necessary
to cover the Federal share of eligible oper-
ation and maintenance costs for coastal har-
bors and channels, and for inland harbors
shall be derived from the Harbor Mainte-
nance Trust Fund: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That the Assistant
Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall
provide a monthly report directly to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate detailing
the allocation and obligation of these funds,
beginning not later than 60 days after the
date of enactment of this Act.
FLOOD CONTROL AND COASTAL EMERGENCIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Flood Con-
trol and Coastal Emergencies’’, as authorized
by section 5 of the Act of August 18, 1941 (33
U.S.C. 701n), for necessary expenses to pre-
pare for flood, hurricane and other natural
disasters and support emergency operations,
repairs, and other activities in response to
such disasters, including disasters in 2019, as
authorized by law, $510,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That the Assistant
Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall
provide a monthly report to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate detailing the alloca-
tion and obligation of these funds, beginning
not later than 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT COMPLETION ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Central
Utah Project Completion Account’’, $350,000,
to be deposited into the Utah Reclamation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.067 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2449
April 11, 2019
Mitigation and Conservation Account for use
by the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and
Conservation Commission, to remain avail-
able until expended, for expenses necessary
in carrying out fire remediation activities
related to wildfires in 2018: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
BUREAU OF RECLAMATION
WATER AND RELATED RESOURCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Water and
Related Resources’’, $17,000,000, to remain
available until expended, for fire remedi-
ation and suppression emergency assistance
related to wildfires in 2017 and 2018: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
ENERGY PROGRAMS
ELECTRICITY DELIVERY
For an additional amount for ‘‘Electricity
Delivery’’, $15,500,000, to remain available
until expended, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes Har-
vey, Irma, and Maria, and Super Typhoon
Yutu, including technical assistance related
to electric grids: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That the Assistant Secretary of
Electricity Delivery shall provide a monthly
report to the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate detailing the allocation and obligation of
these funds, beginning not later than 60 days
after the date of enactment of this Act.
TITLE V
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND
INVESTIGATIONS
COAST GUARD
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations
and Support’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of Hurricanes Michael,
Florence, and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon,
and Typhoon Mangkhut, $48,977,000; of which
$46,977,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and of which $2,000,000 shall
remain available until September 30, 2023, for
environmental compliance and restoration:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procure-
ment, Construction, and Improvements’’ for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael, Florence,
and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon, and Ty-
phoon Mangkhut, $476,755,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2023: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 501. (a) IN GENERAL.—The Federal
share of assistance provided for DR–4336–PR,
DR–4339–PR, DR–4340–USVI and DR–4335–
USVI under sections 403, 406 and 407 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170b and
5173) shall be 100 percent of the eligible costs
under such sections.
(b) APPLICABILITY.—The Federal share pro-
vided by subsection (a) shall apply to dis-
aster assistance applied for before, on, or
after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 502. The Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency shall pro-
vide assistance, pursuant to section 428 of
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et
seq.), for critical services as defined in sec-
tion 406 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act for the
duration of the recovery for incidents DR–
4404, DR–4396, and DR–4398 to—
(1) replace or restore the function of a fa-
cility or system to industry standards with-
out regard to the pre-disaster condition of
the facility or system; and
(2) replace or restore components of the fa-
cility or system not damaged by the disaster
where necessary to fully effectuate the re-
placement or restoration of disaster-dam-
aged components to restore the function of
the facility or system to industry standards.
SEC. 503. Section 20601 of Public Law 115–
123 (132 Stat. 85) is amended by striking
‘‘may’’ and inserting ‘‘shall’’: Provided, That
the amounts provided by this section are
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE VI
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, and flooding associated with
major declared disaster DR–4365, and cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, $82,400,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That of this amount $50,000,000 shall be used
to restore and rebuild national wildlife ref-
uges and increase the resiliency and capacity
of coastal habitat and infrastructure to
withstand storms and reduce the amount of
damage caused by such storms: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Historic
Preservation Fund’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and Typhoon Yutu,
$50,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022, including costs to States and
territories necessary to complete compliance
activities required by section 306108 of title
54, United States Code (formerly section 106
of the National Historic Preservation Act)
and costs needed to administer the program:
Provided, That grants shall only be available
for areas that have received a major disaster
declaration pursuant to the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided fur-
ther, That individual grants shall not be sub-
ject to a non-Federal matching requirement:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construc-
tion’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut, and
calendar year 2018 wildfires, earthquakes,
and volcanic eruptions, $78,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
SURVEYS, INVESTIGATIONS, AND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Surveys, In-
vestigations, and Research’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and calendar
year 2018 wildfires, earthquake damage asso-
ciated with emergency declaration EM–3410,
and in those areas impacted by a major dis-
aster declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) with re-
spect to calendar year 2018 wildfires or vol-
canic eruptions, $98,500,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of this
amount, $72,310,000 is for costs related to the
repair and replacement of equipment and fa-
cilities damaged by disasters in 2018: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 90 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Survey shall submit a report to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations that describes the po-
tential options to replace the facility dam-
aged by the 2018 volcano disaster along with
cost estimates and a description of how the
Survey will provide direct access for moni-
toring volcanic activity and the potential
threat to at-risk communities: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
INSULAR AFFAIRS
ASSISTANCE TO TERRITORIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Technical
Assistance’’ for financial management ex-
penses related to the consequences of Ty-
phoon Yutu, $2,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related
to the consequences of major disasters de-
clared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) in 2018, $1,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
For an additional amount for ‘‘Science and
Technology’’ for necessary expenses related
to improving preparedness of the water sec-
tor, $600,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.067 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2450 April 11, 2019
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
LEAKING UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK TRUST
FUND PROGRAM
For an additional amount for ‘‘Leaking
Underground Storage Tank Fund’’ for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, cal-
endar year 2018 earthquakes, and Typhoon
Yutu, $1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For additional amounts for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael and calendar
year 2018 earthquakes for the hazardous
waste financial assistance grants program,
$1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended; for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Typhoon Yutu for the haz-
ardous waste financial assistance grants pro-
gram and for other solid waste management
activities, $56,000,000, to remain available
until expended, provided that none of these
funds shall be subject to section 3011(b) of
the Solid Waste Disposal Act; and for grants
under section 106 of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act, $5,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, to address impacts of
Hurricane Florence, Hurricane Michael, Ty-
phoon Yutu, and calendar year 2018 wildfires,
notwithstanding subsections (b), (e), and (f),
of such section: Provided, That such amounts
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’, $349,400,000 to re-
main available until expended, of which
$53,300,000 shall be for capitalization grants
for the Clean Water State Revolving Funds
under title VI of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, and of which $296,100,000 shall be
for capitalization grants under section 1452
of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 604(a) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act, funds appropriated herein shall
be provided to States or Territories in EPA
Regions 4, 9, and 10 in amounts determined
by the Administrator for wastewater treat-
ment works and drinking water facilities im-
pacted by Hurricanes Florence and Michael,
Typhoon Yutu, and calendar year 2018
wildfires and earthquakes: Provided further,
That notwithstanding the requirements of
section 603(i) of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act and section 1452(d) of the Safe
Drinking Water Act, for the funds appro-
priated herein, each State shall use not less
than 20 percent but not more than 30 percent
of the amount of its capitalization grants to
provide additional subsidization to eligible
recipients in the form of forgiveness of prin-
cipal, negative interest loans or grants or
any combination of these: Provided further,
That the Administrator shall retain
$10,400,000 of the funds appropriated herein
for grants for drinking water facilities and
waste water treatment plants impacted by
Typhoon Yutu: Provided further, That the
funds appropriated herein shall be used for
eligible projects whose purpose is to reduce
flood or fire damage risk and vulnerability
or to enhance resiliency to rapid hydrologic
change or natural disaster at treatment
works as defined by section 212 of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act or any eli-
gible facilities under section 1452 of the Safe
Drinking Water Act, and for other eligible
tasks at such treatment works or facilities
necessary to further such purposes: Provided
further, That the Administrator of the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency may retain up
to $1,000,000 of the funds appropriated herein
for management and oversight: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
In addition, for an additional amount for
‘‘State and Tribal Assistance Grants’’,
$500,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, of which $261,000,000 shall be for cap-
italization grants for the Clean Water State
Revolving Funds under title VI of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act, and of
which $239,000,000 shall be for capitalization
grants under section 1452 of the Safe Drink-
ing Water Act: Provided, That notwith-
standing section 604(a) of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act and section
1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe Drinking Water Act,
funds appropriated herein shall be provided
to States or Territories in EPA Regions 2, 4
and 6 in amounts determined by the Admin-
istrator for wastewater and drinking water
treatment works and facilities impacted by
Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria: Pro-
vided further, That, for Region 2, such funds
allocated from funds appropriated herein
shall not be subject to the matching or cost
share requirements of sections 602(b)(2),
602(b)(3) of the Federal Water Pollution Con-
trol Act nor the matching requirements of
section 1452(e) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act: Provided further, That, for Region 2, not-
withstanding the requirements of section
603(i) of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act and section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act, each State and Territory shall
use the full amount of its capitalization
grants allocated from funds appropriated
herein to provide additional subsidization to
eligible recipients in the form of forgiveness
of principal, negative interest loans or
grants or any combination of these: Provided
further, That, for Regions 4 and 6, notwith-
standing the requirements of section 603(i) of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act, for the funds allocated, each State shall
use not less than 20 percent but not more
than 30 percent amount of its capitalization
grants allocated from funds appropriated
herein to provide additional subsidization to
eligible recipients in the form of forgiveness
of principal, negative interest loans or
grants or any combination of these: Provided
further, That the Administrator shall retain
$74,600,000 of the funds appropriated herein
for grants to any state or territory that has
not established a water pollution control re-
volving fund pursuant to title VI of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act or section
1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act for
drinking water facilities and waste water
treatment plants impacted by Hurricanes
Irma and Maria: Provided further, That the
funds appropriated herein shall only be used
for eligible projects whose purpose is to re-
duce flood damage risk and vulnerability or
to enhance resiliency to rapid hydrologic
change or a natural disaster at treatment
works as defined by section 212 of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act or any eli-
gible facilities under section 1452 of the Safe
Drinking Water Act, and for other eligible
tasks at such treatment works or facilities
necessary to further such purposes: Provided
further, That, for Region 2, notwithstanding
section 603(d)(2) of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act and section 1452(f)(2) of the
Safe Drinking Water Act, funds allocated
from funds appropriated herein may be used
to make loans or to buy, refinance or re-
structure the debt obligations of eligible re-
cipients only where such debt was incurred
on or after September 20, 2017: Provided fur-
ther, That the Administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency may retain up to
$1,000,000 of the funds appropriated herein for
management and oversight: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
FOREST SERVICE
FOREST AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Forest and
Rangeland Research’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $1,000,000, to remain available
until expended for the forest inventory and
analysis program: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Private Forestry’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $12,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM
For an additional amount for ‘‘National
Forest System’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, and the calendar year
2018 wildfires, $84,960,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That of this
amount $21,000,000 shall be used for haz-
ardous fuels management activities: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Capital Im-
provement and Maintenance’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael, and the cal-
endar year 2018 wildfires, $36,040,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Wildland
Fire Management’’, $720,271,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2022, for ur-
gent wildland fire suppression operations:
Provided, That such funds shall be solely
available to be transferred to and merged
with other appropriations accounts from
which funds were previously transferred for
wildland fire suppression in fiscal year 2018
to fully repay those amounts: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.067 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2451
April 11, 2019
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL
HEALTH SCIENCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘National In-
stitute of Environmental Health Sciences’’
for necessary expenses in carrying out ac-
tivities set forth in section 311(a) of the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
U.S.C. 9660(a)) and section 126(g) of the
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization
Act of 1986 related to the consequences of
major disasters declared pursuant to the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)
in 2018, $1,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 601. Not later than 45 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the agencies
receiving funds appropriated by this title
shall provide a detailed operating plan of an-
ticipated uses of funds made available in this
title by State and Territory, and by pro-
gram, project, and activity, to the Commit-
tees on Appropriations: Provided, That no
such funds shall be obligated before the oper-
ating plans are provided to the Committees:
Provided further, That such plans shall be up-
dated, including obligations to date, and sub-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
every 60 days until all such funds are ex-
pended.
TITLE VII
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Training
and Employment Services’’, $50,000,000, for
the dislocated workers assistance national
reserve for necessary expenses directly re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, wildfires occurring in
calendar year 2018, and tornadoes and floods
occurring in calendar year 2019, to remain
available through September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of Labor may
transfer up to $1,000,000 of such funds to any
other Department of Labor account for re-
construction and recovery needs, including
worker protection activities: Provided fur-
ther, That these sums may be used to replace
grant funds previously obligated to the im-
pacted areas: Provided further, That of the
amount provided, up to $500,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be transferred
to ‘‘Office of Inspector General’’ for over-
sight of activities responding to such con-
sequences: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH
SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
HEALTH SURVEILLANCE AND PROGRAM SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Health Sur-
veillance and Program Support’’, $30,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2019,
for grants, contracts and cooperative agree-
ments for behavioral health treatment, crisis
counseling, and other related helplines, and
for other similar programs to provide sup-
port to individuals impacted by Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, wildfires occurring in
2018, and tornadoes and floods occurring in
calendar year 2019 in those areas for which a
major disaster or emergency has been de-
clared under section 401 or 501 of the Robert
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191): Pro-
vided, That obligations incurred for the pur-
poses provided herein prior to the date of en-
actment of this Act may be charged to funds
appropriated under this heading: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
SOCIAL SERVICES BLOCK GRANT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Social Serv-
ices Block Grant’’, $250,000,000, which shall
remain available through September 30, 2020,
for necessary expenses directly related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, wildfires occurring in 2018, and torna-
does and floods occurring in calendar year
2019 in those areas for which a major disaster
or emergency has been declared under sec-
tion 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191): Provided, That not-
withstanding section 2002 of the Social Secu-
rity Act, the distribution of such amount
shall be limited to States directly affected
by these events: Provided further, That the
time limits in section 2002(c) of the Social
Security Act shall not apply to funds appro-
priated in this paragraph that are used for
renovation, repair or construction: Provided
further, That funds appropriated in this para-
graph are in addition to the entitlement
grants authorized by section 2002(a)(1) of the
Social Security Act and shall not be avail-
able for such entitlement grants: Provided
further, That in addition to other uses per-
mitted by title XX of the Social Security
Act, funds appropriated in this paragraph
may be used for health services (including
mental health services), and for costs of ren-
ovating, repairing, and construction of
health care facilities (including mental
health facilities), child care centers, and
other social services facilities: Provided fur-
ther, That of the amount provided, up to
$1,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be transferred to ‘‘Office of the
Secretary—Office of Inspector General’’ for
oversight of activities responding to such
hurricanes, typhoons, wildfires, tornadoes,
and floods: Provided further, That funds ap-
propriated in this paragraph shall not be
available for costs that are reimbursed by
the Federal Emergency Management Agen-
cy, under a contract for insurance, or by self-
insurance: Provided further, That obligations
incurred for the purposes provided herein
prior to the date of enactment of this Act
may be charged to funds appropriated under
this heading: Provided further, That up to
$3,000,000 may be used to supplement
amounts available for the necessary expenses
of administering subtitle A of title XX of the
Social Security Act: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
CHILDREN AND FAMILIES SERVICES PROGRAMS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Children
and Families Services Programs’’, $60,000,000,
to remain available until September 30, 2021,
for Head Start programs, including making
payments under the Head Start Act, for nec-
essary expenses directly related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, wildfires occurring in 2018, and torna-
does and floods occurring in calendar year
2019 in those areas for which a major disaster
or emergency has been declared under sec-
tion 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191): Provided, That none
of the funds appropriated in this paragraph
shall be included in the calculation of the
‘‘base grant’’ in subsequent fiscal years, as
such term is defined in sections 640(a)(7)(A),
641A(h)(1)(B), or 645(d)(3) of the Head Start
Act: Provided further, That funds appro-
priated in this paragraph are not subject to
the allocation requirements of section 640(a)
of the Head Start Act: Provided further, That
funds appropriated in this paragraph shall
not be available for costs that are reim-
bursed by the Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency, under a contract for insur-
ance, or by self-insurance: Provided further,
That up to $2,000,000 shall be available for
Federal administrative expenses: Provided
further, That obligations incurred for the
purposes provided herein prior to the date of
enactment of this Act may be charged to
funds appropriated under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
HURRICANE EDUCATION RECOVERY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Hurricane
Education Recovery’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael, Typhoon Mangkhut,
Super Typhoon Yutu, the wildfires, earth-
quakes, and volcanic eruptions occurring in
calendar year 2018, and tornadoes and floods
occurring in calendar year 2019 in those
areas for which a major disaster or emer-
gency has been declared under section 401 or
501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5170 and 5191) (referred to under this heading
as a ‘‘covered disaster or emergency’’),
$165,000,000, to remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2019: Provided, That such assist-
ance may be provided through any of the
programs authorized under this heading in
title VIII of subdivision 1 of division B of
Public Law 115–123 (as amended by Public
Law 115–141), as determined by the Secretary
of Education, and subject to the terms and
conditions that applied to those programs,
except that references to dates and school
years in Public Law 115–123 shall be deemed
to be the corresponding dates and school
years for the covered disaster or emergency:
Provided further, That the Secretary of Edu-
cation may determine the amounts to be
used for each such program and shall notify
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate of
these amounts not later than 7 days prior to
obligation: Provided further, That $2,000,000 of
the funds made available under this heading,
to remain available until expended, shall be
transferred to the Office of the Inspector
General of the Department of Education for
oversight of activities supported with funds
appropriated under this heading, and up to
$1,000,000 of the funds made available under
this heading shall be for program adminis-
tration: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.067 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2452 April 11, 2019
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 701. (a) Section 1108(g)(5) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1308(g)(5)) is amend-
ed—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and
(E)’’ and inserting ‘‘(E), and (F)’’;
(2) in subparagraph (C), in the matter pre-
ceding clause (i), by striking ‘‘and (E)’’ and
inserting ‘‘and (F)’’;
(3) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as
subparagraph (F);
(4) by inserting after subparagraph (D), the
following:
‘‘(E) Subject to subparagraph (F), for the
period beginning January 1, 2019, and ending
September 30, 2019, the amount of the in-
crease otherwise provided under subpara-
graph (A) for the Northern Mariana Islands
shall be further increased by $36,000,000.’’;
and
(5) in subparagraph (F) (as redesignated by
paragraph (3) of this section)—
(A) by striking ‘‘title XIX, during’’ and in-
serting ‘‘title XIX—
‘‘(i) during’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘and (D)’’ and inserting ‘‘,
(D), and (E)’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘and the Virgin Islands’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘, the
Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Is-
lands’’;
(D) by striking the period at the end and
inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(E) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) for the period beginning January 1,
2019, and ending September 30, 2019, with re-
spect to payments to Guam and American
Samoa from the additional funds provided
under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall
increase the Federal medical assistance per-
centage or other rate that would otherwise
apply to such payments to 100 percent.’’.
(b) The amounts provided by the amend-
ments made by subsection (a) are designated
by the Congress as being for an emergency
requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 702. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secre-
taries of Labor, Health and Human Services,
and Education shall provide a detailed spend
plan of anticipated uses of funds made avail-
able in this title, including estimated per-
sonnel and administrative costs, to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations: Provided, That
such plans shall be updated and submitted to
the Committees on Appropriations every 60
days until all funds are expended or expire.
SEC. 703. The second proviso under the
heading ‘‘Hurricane Education Recovery’’
under the heading ‘‘Department of Edu-
cation’’ under title VIII of subdivision 1 of
division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–123; 132 Stat. 95) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (I), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(K) assistance provided to an eligible en-
tity under this heading, including assistance
provided to an eligible entity before the date
of enactment of the Supplemental Appro-
priations Act, 2019, may be used by the eligi-
ble entity for a purpose described in section
406 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster and
Relief Emergency Act (42 U.S.C. 5172), not-
withstanding section 102(e)(3) of title IV of
division B of Public Law 109–148 (119 Stat.
2794), if the eligible entity will receive funds
for that purpose under such section 406; and
‘‘(L) any duplicative Federal assistance
provided under this heading to an eligible en-
tity may be retained by the entity and used
for other activities to restart school oper-
ations in accordance with this paragraph;’’;
(2) in paragraph (9), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(3) by redesignating paragraph (10) as para-
graph (11); and
(4) by inserting after paragraph (9) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(10) amounts available under paragraph
(4) that exceed the amount required to meet
the need for such funds as determined by the
Secretary as of December 31, 2018, shall be
available to carry out paragraph (3); and’’:
Provided, That amounts repurposed pursuant
to this section that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act are des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE VIII
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries
and Expenses’’, $10,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for audits and investiga-
tions related to Hurricanes Florence, Lane,
and Michael, Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut,
the calendar year 2018 wildfires, earth-
quakes, and volcano eruptions, and other dis-
asters declared pursuant to the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided,
That, not later than 90 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Government Ac-
countability Office shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of
Representatives and the Senate a spend plan
specifying funding estimates for audits and
investigations of any such declared disasters
occurring in 2018 and identifying funding es-
timates or carryover balances, if any, that
may be available for audits and investiga-
tions of any other such declared disasters:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IX
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE
CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps’’,
$115,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for planning and design re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael on Navy and Marine
Corps installations: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive a master plan for the installations
and a form 1391 for each specific project: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
the Navy, or his designee, shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate a
detailed expenditure plan for funds provided
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That notwith-
standing section 2808 of title 10, United
States Code, or any other provision of law,
funds made available under this heading may
only be used for the purposes specifically de-
scribed under this heading.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Air Force’’, $700,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2023, for
planning and design, and construction ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
cane Michael: Provided, That none of the
funds shall be available for obligation until
the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate re-
ceive a basing plan and future mission re-
quirements for installations significantly
damaged by Hurricane Michael: Provided fur-
ther, That, not later than 60 days after enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air
Force, or his designee, shall submit to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate a detailed
expenditure plan for funds provided under
this heading: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That notwith-
standing section 2808 of title 10, United
States Code, or any other provision of law,
funds made available under this heading may
only be used for the purposes specifically de-
scribed under this heading.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military
Construction, Army National Guard’’,
$42,400,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael: Provided, That none of
the funds shall be available for obligation
until the Committees on Appropriations of
the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive form 1391 for each specific request:
Provided further, That, not later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act, the Director of
the Army National Guard, or his designee,
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate a detailed expenditure plan
for funds provided under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such funds may be obli-
gated or expended for planning and design
and military construction projects not oth-
erwise authorized by law: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That notwith-
standing section 2808 of title 10, United
States Code, or any other provision of law,
funds made available under this heading may
only be used for the purposes specifically de-
scribed under this heading.
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
MEDICAL FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Medical Fa-
cilities’’, $3,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes
Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu: Provided, That the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, upon determina-
tion that such action is necessary to address
needs as a result of the consequences of Hur-
ricanes Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Mangkhut and Yutu, may transfer such
funds to any discretionary account of the
Department of Veterans Affairs: Provided fur-
ther, That before a transfer may take place,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall sub-
mit notice thereof to the Committee on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided further, That none
of these funds shall be available for obliga-
tion until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
submits to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:37 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.067 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2453
April 11, 2019
the Senate a detailed expenditure plan for
funds provided under this heading: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE X
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY RELIEF
PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Public
Transportation Emergency Relief Program’’
as authorized under section 5324 of title 49,
United States Code, $10,542,000 to remain
available until expended, for transit systems
affected by major declared disasters occur-
ring in calendar year 2018: Provided, That not
more than three-quarters of 1 percent of the
funds for public transportation emergency
relief shall be available for administrative
expenses and ongoing program management
oversight as authorized under sections 5334
and 5338(f)(2) of such title and shall be in ad-
dition to any other appropriations for such
purpose: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
Of the amounts made available for ‘‘Fed-
eral Aviation Administration—Operations’’
in division B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–123), up to $18,000,000
shall also be available for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of major de-
clared disasters occurring in calendar year
2018: Provided, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985
are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
EMERGENCY RELIEF PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the Emer-
gency Relief Program as authorized under
section 125 of title 23, United States Code,
$1,650,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Community
Development Fund’’, $2,210,000,000, to remain
available until expended, for necessary ex-
penses for activities authorized under title I
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to
disaster relief, long-term recovery, restora-
tion of infrastructure and housing, economic
revitalization, and mitigation in the most
impacted and distressed areas resulting from
a major disaster that occurred in 2018 or 2019
(except as otherwise provided under this
heading) pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided, That
funds shall be awarded directly to the State,
unit of general local government, or Indian
tribe (as such term is defined in section 102
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974) at the discretion of the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That of the amounts
made available under this heading
$150,000,000 shall be allocated to meet unmet
needs for restoration of infrastructure for
grantees that received allocations for disas-
ters that occurred in 2017 (excluding grantees
that received allocations related to disasters
specified in section 501(a) of title V of this
Act) under this heading of division B of Pub-
lic Law 115–56 and title XI of subdivision 1 of
division B of Public Law 115–123: Provided
further, That of the amounts provided in the
previous proviso, the Secretary’s determina-
tion of unmet needs for restoration of infra-
structure shall not take into account mitiga-
tion-specific allocations: Provided further,
That any funds made available under this
heading and under the same heading in Pub-
lic Law 115–254 that remain available, after
the funds under such headings have been al-
located for necessary expenses for activities
authorized under such headings, shall be al-
located to grantees receiving awards for dis-
asters that occurred in 2018 or 2019, for miti-
gation activities in the most impacted and
distressed areas resulting from a major dis-
aster that occurred in 2018 or 2019: Provided
further, That allocations under the previous
proviso shall be made in the same proportion
that the amount of funds each grantee re-
ceived or will receive under this heading for
unmet needs related to disasters that oc-
curred in 2018 or 2019 and the same heading
in division I of Public Law 115–254 bears to
the amount of all funds provided to all
grantees that received allocations for disas-
ters that occurred in 2018 or 2019: Provided
further, That of the amounts made available
under the text preceding the first proviso
under this heading and under the same head-
ing in Public Law 115–254, the Secretary
shall allocate to all such grantees an aggre-
gate amount not less than 33 percent of the
sum of such amounts of funds within 120 days
after the date of enactment of this Act based
on the best available data, and shall allocate
no less than 100 percent of such funds by no
later than 180 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act: Provided further, That the
Secretary shall not prohibit the use of funds
made available under this heading and the
same heading in Public Law 115–254 for non-
Federal share as authorized by section
105(a)(9) of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)(9)):
Provided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading, grantees may
establish grant programs to assist small
businesses for working capital purposes to
aid in recovery: Provided further, That as a
condition of making any grant, the Sec-
retary shall certify in advance that such
grantee has in place proficient financial con-
trols and procurement processes and has es-
tablished adequate procedures to prevent
any duplication of benefits as defined by sec-
tion 312 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5155), to ensure timely expenditure of
funds, to maintain comprehensive websites
regarding all disaster recovery activities as-
sisted with these funds, and to detect and
prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of funds: Pro-
vided further, That with respect to any such
duplication of benefits, the Secretary shall
act in accordance with section 1210 of Public
Law 115–254 (132 Stat. 3442) and section 312 of
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155):
Provided further, That the Secretary shall re-
quire grantees to maintain on a public
website information containing common re-
porting criteria established by the Depart-
ment that permits individuals and entities
awaiting assistance and the general public to
see how all grant funds are used, including
copies of all relevant procurement docu-
ments, grantee administrative contracts and
details of ongoing procurement processes, as
determined by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That prior to the obligation of funds a
grantee shall submit a plan to the Secretary
for approval detailing the proposed use of all
funds, including criteria for eligibility and
how the use of these funds will address long-
term recovery and restoration of infrastruc-
ture and housing, economic revitalization,
and mitigation in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas: Provided further, That such
funds may not be used for activities reim-
bursed by, or for which funds have been made
available by, the Federal Emergency Man-
agement Agency or the Army Corps of Engi-
neers, in excess of the authorized amount of
the project or its components: Provided fur-
ther, That funds allocated under this heading
shall not be considered relevant to the non-
disaster formula allocations made pursuant
to section 106 of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306): Pro-
vided further, That a State, unit of general
local government, or Indian tribe may use up
to 5 percent of its allocation for administra-
tive costs: Provided further, That the first
proviso under this heading in the Supple-
mental Appropriations for Disaster Relief
Requirements Act, 2018 (division I of Public
Law 115–254) is amended by striking ‘‘State
or unit of general local government’’ and in-
serting ‘‘State, unit of general local govern-
ment, or Indian tribe (as such term is defined
in section 102 of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’:
Provided further, That the sixth proviso
under this heading in the Supplemental Ap-
propriations for Disaster Relief Require-
ments Act, 2018 (division I of Public Law 115–
254) is amended by striking ‘‘State or sub-
division thereof’’ and inserting ‘‘State, unit
of general local government, or Indian tribe
(as such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Provided further, That
in administering the funds under this head-
ing, the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment may waive, or specify alternative
requirements for, any provision of any stat-
ute or regulation that the Secretary admin-
isters in connection with the obligation by
the Secretary or the use by the recipient of
these funds (except for requirements related
to fair housing, nondiscrimination, labor
standards, and the environment), if the Sec-
retary finds that good cause exists for the
waiver or alternative requirement and such
waiver or alternative requirement would not
be inconsistent with the overall purpose of
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974: Provided further, That,
notwithstanding the preceding proviso, re-
cipients of funds provided under this heading
that use such funds to supplement Federal
assistance provided under section 402, 403,
404, 406, 407, 408 (c)(4), or 502 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may
adopt, without review or public comment,
any environmental review, approval, or per-
mit performed by a Federal agency, and such
adoption shall satisfy the responsibilities of
the recipient with respect to such environ-
mental review, approval or permit: Provided
further, That, notwithstanding section
104(g)(2) of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)),
the Secretary may, upon receipt of a request
for release of funds and certification, imme-
diately approve the release of funds for an
activity or project assisted under this head-
ing if the recipient has adopted an environ-
mental review, approval or permit under the
preceding proviso or the activity or project
is categorically excluded from review under
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.067 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2454 April 11, 2019
the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.): Provided further,
That the Secretary shall publish via notice
in the Federal Register any waiver, or alter-
native requirement, to any statute or regula-
tion that the Secretary administers pursu-
ant to title I of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974 no later than 5 days
before the effective date of such waiver or al-
ternative requirement: Provided further, That
of the amounts made available under this
heading, up to $5,000,000 shall be made avail-
able for capacity building and technical as-
sistance, including assistance on contracting
and procurement processes, to support
States, units of general local government, or
Indian tribes (and their subrecipients) that
receive allocations pursuant to this heading,
received disaster recovery allocations under
the same heading in Public Law 115–254, or
may receive similar allocations for disaster
recovery in future appropriations Acts: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, up to
$2,500,000 shall be transferred, in aggregate,
to ‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment—Program Office Salaries and Ex-
penses—Community Planning and Develop-
ment’’ for necessary costs, including infor-
mation technology costs, of administering
and overseeing the obligation and expendi-
ture of amounts under this heading: Provided
further, That the amount specified in the pre-
ceding proviso shall be combined with funds
appropriated under the same heading and for
the same purpose in Public Law 115–254 and
the aggregate of such amounts shall be avail-
able for any of the same such purposes speci-
fied under this heading or the same heading
in Public Law 115–254 without limitation:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That amounts repurposed
under this heading that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act are des-
ignated by the Congress as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i)
of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Def-
icit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 1001. (a) Amounts previously made
available for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas re-
sulting from a major disaster, including
funds provided under section 145 of division C
of Public Law 114–223, section 192 of division
C of Public Law 114–223 (as added by section
101(3) of division A of Public Law 114–254),
section 421 of division K of Public Law 115–31,
and any mitigation funding provided under
the heading ‘‘Department of Housing and
Urban Development—Community Planning
and Development—Community Development
Fund’’ of Public Law 115–123, that were allo-
cated in response to Hurricane Matthew,
may be used interchangeably and without
limitation for the same activities in the
most impacted and distressed areas related
to Hurricane Florence. In addition, any
funds provided under the heading ‘‘Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development—
Community Planning and Development—
Community Development Fund’’ in this Act
or in division I of Public Law 115–254 that are
allocated in response to Hurricane Florence
may be used interchangeably and without
limitation for the same activities in the
most impacted and distressed areas related
to Hurricane Matthew. Until HUD publishes
the Federal Register Notice implementing
this provision, grantees may submit for HUD
approval revised plans for the use of funds
related to Hurricane Matthew that expand
the eligible beneficiaries of existing pro-
grams contained in such previously approved
plans to include those impacted by Hurri-
cane Florence. Approval of any such revised
plans shall include the execution of revised
grant terms and conditions as necessary.
Once the implementing Notice is published,
any additional action plan revisions shall
follow the requirements contained therein.
(b) Amounts made available for adminis-
trative costs for activities authorized under
title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) re-
lated to disaster relief, long-term recovery,
restoration of infrastructure and housing,
economic revitalization, and mitigation in
the most impacted and distressed areas
under this Act or any future Act, and
amounts previously provided under section
420 of division L of Public Law 114–113, sec-
tion 145 of division C of Public Law 114–223,
section 192 of division C of Public Law 114–
223 (as added by section 101(3) of division A of
Public Law 114–254), section 421 of division K
of Public Law 115–31, and under the heading
‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—Community Planning and Develop-
ment—Community Development Fund’’ of
division B of Public Law 115–56, Public Law
115–123, and Public Law 115–254, shall be
available for eligible administrative costs of
the grantee related to any disaster relief
funding identified in this subsection without
regard to the particular disaster appropria-
tion from which such funds originated.
(c) The additional uses pursuant to this
section for amounts that were previously
designated by the Congress, respectively, as
an emergency requirement or as being for
disaster relief pursuant to the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
are designated by the Congress as being for
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 or
as being for disaster relief pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE XI
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS ACT
SEC. 1101. Each amount appropriated or
made available by this Act is in addition to
amounts otherwise appropriated for the fis-
cal year involved.
SEC. 1102. No part of any appropriation
contained in this Act shall remain available
for obligation beyond the current fiscal year
unless expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 1103. Unless otherwise provided for by
this Act, the additional amounts appro-
priated by this Act to appropriations ac-
counts shall be available under the authori-
ties and conditions applicable to such appro-
priations accounts for fiscal year 2019.
SEC. 1104. Each amount designated in this
Act by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 shall
be available (or rescinded or transferred, if
applicable) only if the President subse-
quently so designates all such amounts and
transmits such designations to the Congress.
SEC. 1105. Any amount appropriated by this
Act designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 and
subsequently so designated by the President,
and transferred pursuant to transfer authori-
ties provided by this Act shall retain such
designation.
SEC. 1106. Of all amounts made available
for mitigation activities under the heading
‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—Community Development Fund’’ in
Public Law 115–123, the Secretary shall pub-
lish in the Federal Register the allocations
to all eligible grantees, and the necessary ad-
ministrative requirements applicable to such
allocations within 90 days after enactment of
this Act:
(1) For any plans or amendments address-
ing the use of any funds provided under Pub-
lic Law 115–123 and received by the Secretary
prior to December 22, 2018, the Secretary
shall review pending amendments within 15
days of enactment of this Act and pending
plans within 30 days of enactment of this
Act;
(2) After the date of this Act, the Secretary
may not apply the statutory waiver or alter-
native requirement authority provided by
Public Law 115–123 to extend or otherwise
alter existing statutory and regulatory pro-
visions governing the timeline for review of
required grantee plans:
Provided, That the amounts provided by this
section are designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That amounts
repurposed under this heading that were pre-
viously designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress as
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Supple-
mental Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I have
4 requests for committees to meet dur-
ing today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate.
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, April 11,
2019, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing
on the proposal to establish a United
States space force.
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Thursday, April 11, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Thursday, April
11, 2019, at 2.30 p.m., to conduct a hear-
ing on the following nominations: Kate
Marie Byrnes, of Florida, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of North Mac-
edonia, Edward F. Crawford, of Ohio, to
be Ambassador to Ireland, and David
Michael Satterfield, of Missouri, to be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:37 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.067 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2455
April 11, 2019
Ambassador to the Republic of Turkey,
all of the Department of State.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON COMMUNICATION,
TECHNOLOGY, INNOVATION, AND THE INTERNET
The Subcommittee on Communica-
tion, Technology, Innovation, and The
Internet of the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, April 11,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on
illegal robocalls.
f
NOTICE: REGISTRATION OF MASS
MAILINGS
The filing date for the 2019 first quar-
ter Mass Mailing report is Thursday,
April 25, 2019. An electronic option is
available on Webster that will allow
forms to be submitted via a fillable pdf
document. If your office did no mass
mailings during this period, please sub-
mit a form that states ‘‘none.’’
Mass mailing registrations or nega-
tive reports can be submitted elec-
tronically at http://webster.senate.gov/
secretary/mass_mailing_form.htm or
delivered to the Senate Office of Public
Records, 232 Hart Building, Wash-
ington, D.C. 20510–7116.
The Senate Office of Public Records
is open from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (9:00
a.m. to 5:00 p.m. when the Senate is not
in session). For further information,
please contact the Senate Office of
Public Records at (202) 224–0322.
f
APPOINTMENTS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Chair, on behalf of the Vice President,
pursuant to Public Law 94–304, as
amended by Public Law 99–7, appoints
the following Senators as members of
the Commission on Security and Co-
operation in Europe (Helsinki) during
the 116th Congress: The Honorable
ROGER WICKER of Mississippi (Co-
Chair), The Honorable JOHN BOOZMAN
of Arkansas, The Honorable CORY
GARDNER of Colorado, The Honorable
MARCO RUBIO of Florida, and The Hon-
orable THOM TILLIS of North Carolina.
The Chair, on behalf of the President
of the Senate, pursuant to Public Law
106–286, appoints the following Mem-
bers to serve on the Congressional-Ex-
ecutive Commission on the People’s
Republic of China: The Honorable
MARCO RUBIO of Florida (Co-Chair),
The Honorable TOM COTTON of Arkan-
sas, The Honorable STEVE DAINES of
Montana, The Honorable JAMES
LANKFORD of Oklahoma, and The Hon-
orable TODD YOUNG of Indiana.
The Chair, on behalf of the Majority
Leader, pursuant to the provisions of
S. Res. 64, adopted March 5, 2013, ap-
points the following Senators as mem-
bers of the Senate National Security
Working Group for the 116th Congress:
MARCO RUBIO of Florida (Administra-
tive Co-Chair), DEB FISCHER of Ne-
braska (Co-Chair), CORY GARDNER of
Colorado (Co-Chair), BEN SASSE of Ne-
braska (Co-Chair), ROY BLUNT of Mis-
souri, LINDSEY GRAHAM of South Caro-
lina, JAMES INHOFE of Oklahoma,
JAMES RISCH of Idaho, and MITT ROM-
NEY of Utah.
f
APPOINTMENTS AUTHORITY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing the upcoming adjournment of
the Senate, the President of the Sen-
ate, the President pro tempore, and the
majority and minority leaders be au-
thorized to make appointments to com-
missions, committees, boards, con-
ferences, or interparliamentary con-
ferences authorized by law, by concur-
rent action of the two houses, or by
order of the Senate and that they be
printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RESOLUTIONS SUBMITTED TODAY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate now proceed to the en bloc consid-
eration of the following Senate resolu-
tions, which were submitted earlier
today: S. Res. 163, 164, 165, 166, 167, and
168.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolutions
en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the resolutions.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
Hearing none, the question is on
agreeing to the resolutions en bloc.
The resolutions (S. Res. 163, S. Res.
164, S. Res. 165, S. Res. 166, S. Res. 167,
S. Res. 168) were agreed to en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the preambles be agreed
to and the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table, all en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The preambles were agreed to en
bloc.
(The resolutions, with their pre-
ambles, are printed in today’s RECORD
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
RECOGNIZING THE 100TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE FOUNDING OF
EASTERSEALS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Judi-
ciary Committee be discharged from
further consideration of S. Res. 85 and
the Senate proceed to its immediate
consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 85) recognizing the
100th anniversary of the founding of
Easterseals, a leading advocate and service
provider for children and adults with disabil-
ities, including veterans and older adults,
and their caregivers and families.
There being no objection, the Com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I further ask
unanimous consent that the resolution
be agreed to, the preamble be agreed
to, and the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 85) was agreed
to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of February 28,
2019, under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
NATIONAL 9–1–1 EDUCATION
MONTH
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Judi-
ciary Committee be discharged from
further consideration of S. Res. 131 and
the Senate proceed to its immediate
consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 131) designating April
2019 as ‘‘National 9–1–1 Education Month.’’
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I further ask
unanimous consent that the resolution
be agreed to, the preamble be agreed
to, and the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 131) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of March 28, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND
IDEALS OF NATIONAL SAFE
DIGGING MONTH
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation
Committee be discharged from further
consideration of S. Res. 136 and the
Senate proceed to its immediate con-
sideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 136) supporting the
goals and ideals of National Safe Digging
Month.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.066 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2456 April 11, 2019
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 136) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of April 2, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
AUTHORIZING THE USE OF
EMANCIPATION HALL
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent the Senate pro-
ceed to the immediate consideration of
S. Con. Res. 14.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tion by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (S. Con. Res. 14)
authorizing the use of Emancipation Hall in
the Capitol Visitor Center for an event to
celebrate the birthday of King Kamehameha
I.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the con-
current resolution be agreed to and the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The concurrent resolution (S. Con.
Res. 14) was agreed to.
(The concurrent resolution is printed
in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Submitted
Resolutions.’’)
f
AUTHORIZING THE USE OF
EMANCIPATION HALL
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H. Con. Res. 31, which was re-
ceived from the House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tion by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 31)
authorizing the use of Emancipation Hall for
a ceremony as part of the commemoration of
the days of remembrance of victims of the
Holocaust.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the con-
current resolution be agreed to and the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The concurrent resolution (H. Con.
Res. 31) was agreed to.
SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND
IDEALS OF COUNTERING INTER-
NATIONAL PARENTAL CHILD AB-
DUCTION MONTH
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of Cal-
endar No. 56, S. Res. 23.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 23) supporting the
goals and ideals of Countering International
Parental Child Abduction Month and ex-
pressing the sense of the Senate that Con-
gress should raise awareness of the harm
caused by international parental child ab-
duction.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution,
which had been reported from the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations, without
amendment, and with an amendment
to strike the preamble and insert the
part printed in italic, as follows:
S. RES. 23
øWhereas thousands of children in the
United States have been abducted from the
United States by parents, separating those
children from their parents who remain in
the United States;
øWhereas it is illegal under section 1204 of
title 18, United States Code, to remove, or
attempt to remove, a child from the United
States or retain a child (who has been in the
United States) outside of the United States
with the intent to obstruct the lawful exer-
cise of parental rights;
øWhereas more than 9,127 children experi-
enced international parental child abduction
between 2008 and 2015;
øWhereas, during 2017, one or more cases of
international parental child abduction in-
volving children who are citizens of the
United States were identified in 105 coun-
tries around the world;
øWhereas the United States is a party to
the Convention on the Civil Aspects of Inter-
national Child Abduction, done at the Hague,
October 25, 1980 (TIAS 11670) (referred to in
this preamble as the ‘‘Hague Convention on
Abduction’’), which—
ø(1) supports the prompt return of wrongly
removed or retained children; and
ø(2) calls for all participating parties to re-
spect parental custody rights;
øWhereas the majority of children who
were abducted from the United States have
yet to be reunited with their custodial par-
ents;
øWhereas, during 2017, Argentina, the Ba-
hamas, Brazil, China, the Dominican Repub-
lic, Ecuador, India, Japan, Jordan, Morocco,
Peru, and the United Arab Emirates were
identified under the Sean and David Gold-
man International Child Abduction Preven-
tion and Return Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 9101 et
seq.) as engaging in a pattern of noncompli-
ance;
øWhereas the Supreme Court of the United
States has recognized that family abduc-
tion—
ø(1) is a form of child abuse with poten-
tially ‘‘devastating consequences for a
child’’, which may include negative impacts
on the physical and mental well-being of the
child; and
ø(2) can cause a child to ‘‘experience a loss
of community and stability, leading to lone-
liness, anger, and fear of abandonment’’;
øWhereas, according to the 2010 Report on
Compliance with the Hague Convention on
the Civil Aspects of International Child Ab-
duction by the Department of State, re-
search shows that an abducted child is at
risk of significant short- and long-term prob-
lems, including ‘‘anxiety, eating problems,
nightmares, mood swings, sleep disturb-
ances, [and] aggressive behavior’’;
øWhereas international parental child ab-
duction has devastating emotional con-
sequences for the child and for the parent
from whom the child is separated;
øWhereas the United States has a history
of promoting child welfare through institu-
tions including—
ø(1) in the Department of Health and
Human Services, the Children’s Bureau of
the Administration for Children and Fami-
lies; and
ø(2) in the Department of State, the Office
of Children’s Issues of the Bureau of Con-
sular Affairs;
øWhereas Congress has signaled a commit-
ment to ending international parental child
abduction by enacting the International
Child Abduction Remedies Act (22 U.S.C. 9001
et seq.), the International Parental Kidnap-
ping Crime Act of 1993 (Public Law 103–173),
which enacted section 1204 of title 18, United
States Code, and the Sean and David Gold-
man International Child Abduction Preven-
tion and Return Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 9101 et
seq.);
øWhereas the Senate adopted Senate Reso-
lution 543, 112th Congress, on December 4,
2012, which—
ø(1) condemns international parental child
abduction;
ø(2) urges countries identified by the De-
partment of State as noncompliant with the
Hague Convention on Abduction to fulfill the
commitment those countries made to imple-
ment such treaty; and
ø(3) expresses the sense of the Senate that
the United States should—
ø(A) pursue the return, by all appropriate
means, of each child abducted by a parent to
another country;
ø(B) if a child is abducted by a parent and
not returned to the United States, facilitate
access to the abducted child for the parent
remaining in the United States; and
ø(C) ‘‘where appropriate, seek the extra-
dition of the parent that abducted the
child’’;
øWhereas the Senate adopted Senate Reso-
lution 431, 115th Congress, on April 19, 2018,
which—
ø(1) raises awareness and promotes edu-
cation about international parental child ab-
duction;
ø(2) recognizes the impacts on children who
are victims of international parental abduc-
tions; and
ø(3) expresses the sense of the Senate that
the United States should—
ø(A) continue to raise awareness and oppo-
sition on international parental child abduc-
tion;
ø(B) facilitate access to the abducted child
for the parent remaining in the United
States; and
ø(C) urge countries to comply with the re-
quest to bring children home to the United
States;
øWhereas all 50 States and the District of
Columbia have enacted laws criminalizing
parental kidnapping;
øWhereas, in 2017, the Prevention Branch
of the Office of Children’s Issues of the De-
partment of State—
ø(1) fielded more than 3,500 inquiries from
the general public relating to preventing a
child from being removed from the United
States; and
ø(2) enrolled more than 4,404 children in
the Children’s Passport Issuance Alert Pro-
gram, which—
ø(A) is one of the most important tools of
the Department of State for preventing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:37 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.063 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2457
April 11, 2019
international parental child abductions; and
ø(B) allows the Office of Children’s Issues
to contact the enrolling parent or legal
guardian to verify whether the parental con-
sent requirement has been met when a pass-
port application has been submitted for an
enrolled child;
øWhereas, the Department of State cannot
track the ultimate destination of a child
through the use of the passport of the child
issued by the Department of State if the
child is transported to a third country after
departing from the United States;
øWhereas a child who is a citizen of the
United States may have another nationality
and may travel using a passport issued by
another country, which—
ø(1) increases the difficulty in determining
the whereabouts of the child; and
ø(2) makes efforts to prevent abductions
more critical; and
øWhereas, in 2017, the Department of
Homeland Security, in coordination with the
Prevention Branch of the Office of Children’s
Issues of the Department of State, enrolled
210 children in a program aimed at pre-
venting international parental child abduc-
tion:
øNow, therefore, be it¿
Whereas thousands of children in the United
States have been abducted from the United
States by parents, separating those children
from their parents who remain in the United
States;
Whereas it is illegal under section 1204 of title
18, United States Code, to remove, or attempt to
remove, a child from the United States or retain
a child (who has been in the United States) out-
side of the United States with the intent to ob-
struct the lawful exercise of parental rights;
Whereas more than 9,000 children experienced
international parental child abduction between
2008 and 2015;
Whereas, during 2017, one or more cases of
international parental child abduction involving
children who are citizens of the United States
were identified in 105 countries around the
world;
Whereas the United States is a party to the
Convention on the Civil Aspects of International
Child Abduction, done at the Hague, October 25,
1980 (TIAS 11670) (referred to in this preamble
as the ‘‘Hague Convention on Abduction’’),
which—
(1) supports the prompt return of wrongly re-
moved or retained children; and
(2) calls for all participating parties to respect
parental custody rights;
Whereas the majority of children who were
abducted from the United States have yet to be
reunited with their custodial parents;
Whereas, during 2017, Argentina, the Baha-
mas, Brazil, China, the Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, India, Japan, Jordan, Morocco, Peru,
and the United Arab Emirates were identified
under the Sean and David Goldman Inter-
national Child Abduction Prevention and Re-
turn Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 9101 et seq.) as en-
gaging in a pattern of noncompliance;
Whereas the Supreme Court of the United
States has recognized that family abduction—
(1) is a form of child abuse with potentially
‘‘devastating consequences for a child’’, which
may include negative impacts on the physical
and mental well-being of the child; and
(2) can cause a child to ‘‘experience a loss of
community and stability, leading to loneliness,
anger, and fear of abandonment’’;
Whereas, according to the 2010 Report on
Compliance with the Hague Convention on the
Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction
by the Department of State, research shows that
an abducted child is at risk of significant short-
and long-term problems, including ‘‘anxiety,
eating problems, nightmares, mood swings, sleep
disturbances, [and] aggressive behavior’’;
Whereas international parental child abduc-
tion has devastating emotional consequences for
the child and for the parent from whom the
child is separated;
Whereas the United States has a history of
promoting child welfare through institutions in-
cluding—
(1) in the Department of Health and Human
Services, the Children’s Bureau of the Adminis-
tration for Children and Families; and
(2) in the Department of State, the Office of
Children’s Issues of the Bureau of Consular Af-
fairs;
Whereas Congress has signaled a commitment
to ending international parental child abduc-
tion by enacting the International Child Abduc-
tion Remedies Act (22 U.S.C. 9001 et seq.), the
International Parental Kidnapping Crime Act of
1993 (Public Law 103–173), which enacted sec-
tion 1204 of title 18, United States Code, and the
Sean and David Goldman International Child
Abduction Prevention and Return Act of 2014
(22 U.S.C. 9101 et seq.);
Whereas the Senate adopted Senate Resolu-
tion 543, 112th Congress, on December 4, 2012,
condemning the international abduction of chil-
dren;
Whereas the Senate adopted Senate Resolu-
tion 431, 115th Congress, on April 19, 2018, to
raise awareness of, and opposition to, inter-
national parental child abduction;
Whereas all 50 States and the District of Co-
lumbia have enacted laws criminalizing parental
kidnapping;
Whereas, in 2017, the Prevention Branch of
the Office of Children’s Issues of the Depart-
ment of State—
(1) fielded more than 3,500 inquiries from the
general public relating to preventing a child
from being removed from the United States; and
(2) enrolled more than 4,400 children in the
Children’s Passport Issuance Alert Program,
which—
(A) is one of the most important tools of the
Department of State for preventing inter-
national parental child abductions; and
(B) allows the Office of Children’s Issues to
contact the enrolling parent or legal guardian to
verify whether the parental consent requirement
has been met when a passport application has
been submitted for an enrolled child;
Whereas, the Department of State cannot
track the ultimate destination of a child
through the use of the passport of the child
issued by the Department of State if the child is
transported to a third country after departing
from the United States;
Whereas a child who is a citizen of the United
States may have another nationality and may
travel using a passport issued by another coun-
try, which—
(1) increases the difficulty in determining the
whereabouts of the child; and
(2) makes efforts to prevent abductions more
critical; and
Whereas, in 2017, the Department of Home-
land Security, in coordination with the Preven-
tion Branch of the Office of Children’s Issues of
the Department of State, enrolled 210 children in
a program aimed at preventing international pa-
rental child abduction:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes and observes ‘‘Countering
International Parental Child Abduction
Month’’ during the period beginning on April
1, 2019, and ending on April 30, 2019, to raise
awareness of, and opposition to, inter-
national parental child abduction; and
(2) urges the United States to continue
playing a leadership role in raising aware-
ness about the devastating impacts of inter-
national parental child abduction by edu-
cating the public about the negative emo-
tional, psychological, and physical con-
sequences to children and parents victimized
by international parental child abduction.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the resolution.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
If not, the question is on adoption of
the resolution.
The resolution (S. Res. 23) was agreed
to.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the committee-reported
amendment to the preamble be agreed
to; that the preamble, as amended, be
agreed to; and that the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported amendment
to the preamble was agreed to.
The preamble, as amended, was
agreed to.
The resolution, with its preamble, as
amended, reads as follows:
S. RES. 23
Whereas thousands of children in the
United States have been abducted from the
United States by parents, separating those
children from their parents who remain in
the United States;
Whereas it is illegal under section 1204 of
title 18, United States Code, to remove, or
attempt to remove, a child from the United
States or retain a child (who has been in the
United States) outside of the United States
with the intent to obstruct the lawful exer-
cise of parental rights;
Whereas more than 9,000 children experi-
enced international parental child abduction
between 2008 and 2015;
Whereas, during 2017, one or more cases of
international parental child abduction in-
volving children who are citizens of the
United States were identified in 105 coun-
tries around the world;
Whereas the United States is a party to the
Convention on the Civil Aspects of Inter-
national Child Abduction, done at the Hague,
October 25, 1980 (TIAS 11670) (referred to in
this preamble as the ‘‘Hague Convention on
Abduction’’), which—
(1) supports the prompt return of wrongly
removed or retained children; and
(2) calls for all participating parties to re-
spect parental custody rights;
Whereas the majority of children who were
abducted from the United States have yet to
be reunited with their custodial parents;
Whereas, during 2017, Argentina, the Baha-
mas, Brazil, China, the Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, India, Japan, Jordan, Morocco,
Peru, and the United Arab Emirates were
identified under the Sean and David Gold-
man International Child Abduction Preven-
tion and Return Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 9101 et
seq.) as engaging in a pattern of noncompli-
ance;
Whereas the Supreme Court of the United
States has recognized that family abduc-
tion—
(1) is a form of child abuse with potentially
‘‘devastating consequences for a child’’,
which may include negative impacts on the
physical and mental well-being of the child;
and
(2) can cause a child to ‘‘experience a loss
of community and stability, leading to lone-
liness, anger, and fear of abandonment’’;
Whereas, according to the 2010 Report on
Compliance with the Hague Convention on
the Civil Aspects of International Child Ab-
duction by the Department of State, re-
search shows that an abducted child is at
risk of significant short- and long-term prob-
lems, including ‘‘anxiety, eating problems,
nightmares, mood swings, sleep disturb-
ances, [and] aggressive behavior’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:37 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.041 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2458 April 11, 2019
Whereas international parental child ab-
duction has devastating emotional con-
sequences for the child and for the parent
from whom the child is separated;
Whereas the United States has a history of
promoting child welfare through institutions
including—
(1) in the Department of Health and
Human Services, the Children’s Bureau of
the Administration for Children and Fami-
lies; and
(2) in the Department of State, the Office
of Children’s Issues of the Bureau of Con-
sular Affairs;
Whereas Congress has signaled a commit-
ment to ending international parental child
abduction by enacting the International
Child Abduction Remedies Act (22 U.S.C. 9001
et seq.), the International Parental Kidnap-
ping Crime Act of 1993 (Public Law 103–173),
which enacted section 1204 of title 18, United
States Code, and the Sean and David Gold-
man International Child Abduction Preven-
tion and Return Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 9101 et
seq.);
Whereas the Senate adopted Senate Reso-
lution 543, 112th Congress, on December 4,
2012, condemning the international abduc-
tion of children;
Whereas the Senate adopted Senate Reso-
lution 431, 115th Congress, on April 19, 2018,
to raise awareness of, and opposition to,
international parental child abduction;
Whereas all 50 States and the District of
Columbia have enacted laws criminalizing
parental kidnapping;
Whereas, in 2017, the Prevention Branch of
the Office of Children’s Issues of the Depart-
ment of State—
(1) fielded more than 3,500 inquiries from
the general public relating to preventing a
child from being removed from the United
States; and
(2) enrolled more than 4,400 children in the
Children’s Passport Issuance Alert Program,
which—
(A) is one of the most important tools of
the Department of State for preventing
international parental child abductions; and
(B) allows the Office of Children’s Issues to
contact the enrolling parent or legal guard-
ian to verify whether the parental consent
requirement has been met when a passport
application has been submitted for an en-
rolled child;
Whereas, the Department of State cannot
track the ultimate destination of a child
through the use of the passport of the child
issued by the Department of State if the
child is transported to a third country after
departing from the United States;
Whereas a child who is a citizen of the
United States may have another nationality
and may travel using a passport issued by
another country, which—
(1) increases the difficulty in determining
the whereabouts of the child; and
(2) makes efforts to prevent abductions
more critical; and
Whereas, in 2017, the Department of Home-
land Security, in coordination with the Pre-
vention Branch of the Office of Children’s
Issues of the Department of State, enrolled
210 children in a program aimed at pre-
venting international parental child abduc-
tion: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes and observes ‘‘Countering
International Parental Child Abduction
Month’’ during the period beginning on April
1, 2019, and ending on April 30, 2019, to raise
awareness of, and opposition to, inter-
national parental child abduction; and
(2) urges the United States to continue
playing a leadership role in raising aware-
ness about the devastating impacts of inter-
national parental child abduction by edu-
cating the public about the negative emo-
tional, psychological, and physical con-
sequences to children and parents victimized
by international parental child abduction.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST
TIME—H.R. 1644 AND H.R. 1957
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there are two bills at the
desk, and I ask for their first reading
en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the titles of the bills for
the first time en bloc.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 1644) to restore the open inter-
net order of the Federal Communications
Commission.
A bill (H.R. 1957) to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to modernize and im-
prove the Internal Revenue Service, and for
other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I now ask for a
second reading, and I object to my own
request, all en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bills will
receive their second reading on the
next legislative day.
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT
AGREEMENT—H.R. 1222
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that upon re-
ceipt of H.R. 1222, if the text is the
same as S. 94, H.R. 1222 be considered
read a third time and passed and the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate; further,
that with respect to S. 94, passage be
vitiated and the bill be indefinitely
postponed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to executive session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of the
following nominations: Calendar Nos.
182, 184, and 186.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the nomina-
tions.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nominations of Daniel N.
Rosenblum, of Maryland, a Career
Member of the Senior Executive Serv-
ice, to be Ambassador Extraordinary
and Plenipotentiary of the United
States of America to the Republic of
Uzbekistan; Kip Tom, of Indiana, for
the rank of Ambassador during his ten-
ure of service as U.S. Representative to
the United Nations Agencies for Food
and Agriculture; and Robert K. Scott,
of Maryland, a Career Member of the
Senior Foreign Service, Class of Coun-
selor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary
and Plenipotentiary of the United
States of America to the Republic of
Malawi.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nominations.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate vote on the nominations with no
intervening action or debate; that if
confirmed, the motions to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table; that the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate’s action;
that no further motions be in order;
and that any statement relating to the
nominations be printed in the RECORD.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Rosenblum,
Tom, and Scott nominations en bloc?
The nominations were confirmed en
bloc.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn, to then convene for pro forma
sessions only, with no business being
conducted, on the following dates and
times, and that following each pro
forma session, the Senate adjourn until
the next pro forma session: Monday,
April 15 at 3 p.m.; Thursday, April 18,
at 11:45 a.m.; Monday, April 22, at 9
a.m.; Thursday, April 25 at 4:30 p.m.
I further ask that when the Senate
adjourns on Thursday, April 25, it next
convene at 3 p.m., Monday, April 29,
and that following the prayer and
pledge, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
approved to date, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day, morning business be closed,
and the Senate proceed to executive
session and resume consideration of
the William Cooper nomination; fi-
nally, notwithstanding the provisions
of rule XXII, the cloture motions filed
during today’s session ripen at 5:30 on
Monday, April 29.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:02 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.044 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2459
April 11, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL MONDAY,
APRIL 15, 2019, AT 3 P.M.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 5:04 p.m., adjourned until Monday,
April 15, 2019, at 3 p.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
THOMAS PETER FEDDO, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE ASSIST-
ANT SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY FOR INVESTMENT
SECURITY. (NEW POSITION)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
NAZAK NIKAKHTAR, OF MARYLAND, TO BE UNDER SEC-
RETARY OF COMMERCE FOR INDUSTRY AND SECURITY,
VICE MIRA RADIELOVIC RICARDEL, RESIGNED.
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
STEPHEN M. DICKSON, OF GEORGIA, TO BE ADMINIS-
TRATOR OF THE FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
FOR THE TERM OF FIVE YEARS, VICE MICHAEL PETER
HUERTA, TERM EXPIRED.
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
MICHELLE A. BEKKERING, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM-
BIA, TO BE AN ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR OF THE
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT, VICE ERIC G. POSTEL.
FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY
CATHERINE BIRD, OF TEXAS, TO BE GENERAL COUNSEL
OF THE FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY FOR A
TERM OF FIVE YEARS, VICE JULIA AKINS CLARK, TERM
EXPIRING.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JONATHAN R. COHEN, OF CALIFORNIA, A CAREER MEM-
BER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MIN-
ISTER–COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT.
MORSE H. TAN, OF ILLINOIS, TO BE AMBASSADOR AT
LARGE FOR GLOBAL CRIMINAL JUSTICE.
FEDERAL MEDIATION AND CONCILIATION
SERVICES
RICHARD GIACOLONE, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE FEDERAL
MEDIATION AND CONCILIATION DIRECTOR, VICE ALLI-
SON BECK, RESIGNED.
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. PETER B. ANDRYSIAK, JR.
BRIG. GEN. JONATHAN P. BRAGA
BRIG. GEN. JOHN W. BRENNAN, JR.
BRIG. GEN. MIGUEL A. CORREA
BRIG. GEN. CLEMENT S. COWARD, JR.
BRIG. GEN. PATRICK J. DONAHOE
BRIG. GEN. CHRISTOPHER T. DONAHUE
BRIG. GEN. SCOTT L. EFFLANDT
BRIG. GEN. MICHAEL R. FENZEL
BRIG. GEN. DAVID J. FRANCIS
BRIG. GEN. BRADLEY T. GERICKE
BRIG. GEN. DAVID M. HAMILTON
BRIG. GEN. NEIL S. HERSEY
BRIG. GEN. LONNIE G. HIBBARD
BRIG. GEN. DIANA M. HOLLAND
BRIG. GEN. OMAR J. JONES IV
BRIG. GEN. STEPHEN J. MARANIAN
BRIG. GEN. MATTHEW W. MCFARLANE
BRIG. GEN. CHRISTOPHER O. MOHAN
BRIG. GEN. LAURA A. POTTER
BRIG. GEN. THOMAS A PUGH
BRIG. GEN. ROBERT A. RASCH, JR.
BRIG. GEN. JOHN B. RICHARDSON IV
BRIG. GEN. KENNETH T. ROYAR
BRIG. GEN. STEPHEN G. SMITH
BRIG. GEN. THOMAS H. TODD III
BRIG. GEN. KEVIN VEREEN
BRIG. GEN. ROBERT F. WHITTLE, JR.
BRIG. GEN. DAVID WILSON
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be major
ERIKA O. BERNARDO
THOMAS A. HEAFNER
CAROLE M. Y. VILLAMARIA
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be major
COREY T. BEALS
MICHAEL R. HALL
ERIC C. HEMPEN
DANIEL R. MONSIVAIS
CHRISTOPHER R. WILLIAMS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be major
DANIEL W. SCHLIEDER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
DEBORAH J. ANGELES
ALIDAN A. BANGURA
AMBER J. BARKER
DAVID F. BRADLEY, JR.
STEPHANIE D. CARRILLO
LORI D. CARVER
TANYA I. DIAZ
CLEMENTINE DUKE
JERRY M. EARL, JR.
ERNI L. EULENSTEIN
CUBBY L. GARDNER
BROOKS B. GOETTLE
WENDY H. HEIBEL
DAWN M. HIGGINS
YVONNE R. HILL
CARL O. IMPASTATO
SHANTI P. JONES
TROY T. KINION
RACHEL J. A. LEDESMA
MARCIE A. LEWIS
CHRISTY L. LIVERY
NICOLE F. MOLETT
KEVIN D. MONAGHAN
DANIEL D. MOORE, JR.
LISA R. MURCHISON
COLIN D. PERRY
JOANN M. POOLE
ANNMARIE PUTTBRESE
ERIC K. RAUSCH
KEITH A. SCHULTZ
NICOLE L. SCHULTZ
BRIAN L. SCOTT
ANDRIA D. SHARP
STEVEN J. SHEA
JENNIFER L. SOPER
SHAMANA J. STEVENS
MELISSA K. VESSAR
ANDREA K. WHITNEY
CARLA ANN WIESE
KAREN L. WILLIAMS
PATRICIA E. WILLIAMS
ZOE T. WOOLSTON
KERI L. YOUNG
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be major
CHRISTOPHER L. METZGER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR ARMY AS A
CHAPLAIN UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 531 AND 7064:
To be major
JONATHAN W. ANDERSON
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant commander
TERENCE B. MCADOO
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant commander
DONALD A. SINITIERE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR TEMPORARY
APPOINTMENT TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE
UNITED STATES NAVY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
605:
To be lieutenant commander
ROBERT H. BATTLE
JEREMY R. BOHANAN
CORREY J. BORRELLI
LEONARD G. BOWMAN
JOHN C. COLLINS II
TY J. DANIELS
TOM W. DESHAZO
ANTHONY S. FINIGAN
SHAWN H. GARNER
DANIEL J. GESCH
JAMES D. HALSELL
DUNCAN N. HAMILTON
MATTHEW C. HAYS
ROSS E. HIEATT, JR.
ALLAN D. JONES
JEREMY R. KASIK
KYLE R. KAUFFMAN
THOMAS R. KINSEY
EDWIN K. KLINKHAMMER
JACOB N. KUTZER
MICHAEL S. LASSITER
RICHARD C. LAUBER III
JOSEPH P. LEAHY
THOMAS J. LI
PATRICK T. LOVE
PAUL M. MCDONALD
JOSEPH A. MEADOWS
PATRICK A. NANSON
CASEY H. OSWALD
EOWYN E. PEDICINI
KENNETH W. PENNINGTON
CHRISTOPHER P. PISCIOTTA
JOSEPH F. PUISHYS III
JEFFREY D. REILLY
MATTHEW J. SCHWEERS
DAVID C. SEIBEL
ANNA M. T. SHAFER
AARON M. SMITH
CHRISTOPHER G. SMITH
JERD H. SMITH
ZACHARY T. SMITH
DERON S. SPENCER
NATHAN M. SUNDELL
DAVID J. VANDYKE
KEITH E. WILBER
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES MA-
RINE CORPS RESERVE UNDER TITLE 10, U. S.C., SECTION
12203:
To be colonel
LESLIE S. ALBERS
ERICH B. BERGIEL
BRANDON M. BOLLING
DAVID M. CAREY
ARTUR M. CZAPKA
VINCENT C. DAWSON
SHANNON L. GORRELL
KEVIN P. GRAVES
DENNIS W. HACKER
KIMBERLY A. HAYWORTH
DOUGLAS P. HIBSHMAN
ALLAN G. JASTER
JOHN W. KLOPACZ
JAMES F. KORTH
KARA L. LECKER
CHARLES K. MARTIN
MARK J. MCDONALD
DAVID S. MCELLIOTT
BRIAN T. MCGONAGLE
KERRY K. MENGELKOCH
JEFFREY M. ODONNELL
MILTON K. PARSONS, JR.
BRIAN C. PATE
GUILLERMO ROSALES, JR.
TRAVIS G. RUSSELL
MICHAEL E. SHERIDAN
BRUCE J. STOFFOLANO
MATTHEW C. SWINDLE
SEAN E. ZUKOWSKY
f
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate April 11, 2019:
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
DREW H. WRIGLEY, OF NORTH DAKOTA, TO BE UNITED
STATES ATTORNEY FOR THE DISTRICT OF NORTH DA-
KOTA FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
WING CHAU, OF RHODE ISLAND, TO BE UNITED STATES
MARSHAL FOR THE DISTRICT OF RHODE ISLAND FOR
THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
RAMONA L. DOHMAN, OF MINNESOTA, TO BE UNITED
STATES MARSHAL FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA
FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DANIEL N. ROSENBLUM, OF MARYLAND, A CAREER
MEMBER OF THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE, TO BE
AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC
OF UZBEKISTAN.
KIP TOM, OF INDIANA, FOR THE RANK OF AMBASSADOR
DURING HIS TENURE OF SERVICE AS U.S. REPRESENTA-
TIVE TO THE UNITED NATIONS AGENCIES FOR FOOD AND
AGRICULTURE.
ROBERT K. SCOTT, OF MARYLAND, A CAREER MEMBER
OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF COUN-
SELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
DAVID BERNHARDT, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G11AP6.067 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2460 April 11, 2019
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
NICK EDWARD PROFFITT, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES MARSHAL FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIR-
GINIA FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
WITHDRAWAL
Executive Message transmitted by
the President to the Senate on April 11,
2019 withdrawing from further Senate
consideration the following nomina-
tion:
ROBERT WILLIAMS, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF STATE FOR SOUTH ASIAN AFFAIRS, VICE
NISHA DESAI BISWAL, WHICH WAS SENT TO THE SENATE
ON JANUARY 3, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:05 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A11AP6.035 S11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
D395
Thursday, April 11, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
See Final Résumé of Congressional Activity (including the History of
Bills) for the Second Session of the 115th Congress.
Senate confirmed the nomination of David Bernhardt, of Virginia, to be
Secretary of the Interior.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S2399–S2460
Measures Introduced: Eighty-one bills and four-
teen resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
1140–1220, S. Res. 159–171, and S. Con. Res. 14.
Pages S2432–36
Measures Passed:
Lady Bears of Baylor University Division I
Women’s Basketball Championship: Senate agreed
to S. Res. 163, commending and congratulating the
Lady Bears of Baylor University on winning the
2019 National Collegiate Athletic Association Divi-
sion I women’s basketball championship. Page S2441
University of Virginia Division I Men’s Basket-
ball Championship: Senate agreed to S. Res. 164,
commending the University of Virginia men’s bas-
ketball team for winning the 2019 National Colle-
giate Athletic Association Division I Men’s Basket-
ball Championship. Pages S2441–42
Importance of Vaccinations and Immunizations:
Senate agreed to S. Res. 165, recognizing the impor-
tance of vaccinations and immunizations in the
United States. Pages S2442–43
Silver Star Service Banner Day: Senate agreed to
S. Res. 166, expressing support for the designation
of May 1, 2019, as ‘‘Silver Star Service Banner Day’’.
Page S2443
National Park Week: Senate agreed to S. Res.
167, designating the week of April 20, 2019,
through April 28, 2019, as ‘‘National Park Week’’.
Page S2443
Financial Literacy Month: Senate agreed to S.
Res. 168, designating April 2019 as ‘‘Financial Lit-
eracy Month’’. Pages S2443–44
100th Anniversary of the Founding of
Easterseals: Committee on the Judiciary was dis-
charged from further consideration of S. Res. 85, rec-
ognizing the 100th anniversary of the founding of
Easterseals, a leading advocate and service provider
for children and adults with disabilities, including
veterans and older adults, and their caregivers and
families, and the resolution was then agreed to.
Page S2455
National 9–1–1 Education Month: Committee
on the Judiciary was discharged from further consid-
eration of S. Res. 131, designating April 2019 as
‘‘National 9–1–1 Education Month’’, and the resolu-
tion was then agreed to. Page S2455
National Safe Digging Month: Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation was dis-
charged from further consideration of S. Res. 136,
supporting the goals and ideals of National Safe
Digging Month, and the resolution was then agreed
to. Pages S2455–56
Authorizing the Use of Emancipation Hall: Sen-
ate agreed to S. Con. Res. 14, authorizing the use
of Emancipation Hall in the Capitol Visitor Center
for an event to celebrate the birthday of King Kame-
hameha I. Page S2456
Authorizing the Use of Emancipation Hall: Sen-
ate agreed to H. Con. Res. 31, authorizing the use
of Emancipation Hall for a ceremony as part of the
commemoration of the days of remembrance of vic-
tims of the Holocaust. Page S2456
Countering International Parental Child Ab-
duction Month: Senate agreed to S. Res. 23, sup-
porting the goals and ideals of Countering Inter-
national Parental Child Abduction Month and ex-
pressing the sense of the Senate that Congress should
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D396 April 11, 2019
raise awareness of the harm caused by international
parental child abduction. Pages S2456–58
Appointments:
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Eu-
rope: The Chair, on behalf of the Vice President,
pursuant to Public Law 94–304, as amended by
Public Law 99–7, appointed the following Senators
as members of the Commission on Security and Co-
operation in Europe (Helsinki) during the 116th
Congress: Senators Wicker (Co-Chair), Boozman,
Gardner, Rubio, and Tillis. Page S2455
Congressional-Executive Commission on the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China: The Chair, on behalf of the
President of the Senate, pursuant to Public Law
106–286, appointed the following Members to serve
on the Congressional-Executive Commission on the
People’s Republic of China: Senators Rubio (Co-
Chair), Cotton, Daines, Lankford, and Young.
Page S2455
Senate National Security Working Group: The
Chair, on behalf of the Majority Leader, pursuant to
the provisions of S. Res. 64, adopted March 5, 2013,
appointed the following Senators as members of the
Senate National Security Working Group for the
116th Congress: Senators Rubio (Administrative Co-
Chair), Fischer (Co-Chair), Gardner (Co-Chair), Sasse
(Co-Chair), Blunt, Graham, Inhofe, Risch, and Rom-
ney. Page S2455
Authorizing Leadership to Make Appoint-
ments—Agreement: A unanimous-consent agree-
ment was reached providing that, notwithstanding
the adjournment of the Senate, the President of the
Senate, the President Pro Tempore, and the Majority
and Minority Leaders be authorized to make ap-
pointments to commissions, committees, boards,
conferences, or interparliamentary conferences au-
thorized by law, by concurrent action of the two
Houses, or by order of the Senate. Page S2455
Target Practice and Marksmanship Training
Support Act—Agreement: A unanimous-consent
agreement was reached providing that upon receipt
of H.R. 1222, to amend the Pittman-Robertson
Wildlife Restoration Act to facilitate the establish-
ment of additional or expanded public target ranges
in certain States, if the text is the same as S. 94, to
amend the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration
Act to facilitate the establishment of additional or
expanded public target ranges in certain States, H.R.
1222 be considered read a third time and passed and
the motion to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table, with no intervening action or
debate; and that with respect to S. 94, passage be
vitiated and the bill be indefinitely postponed.
Page S2458
Pro Forma Sessions—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that the
Senate adjourn, to then convene for pro forma ses-
sions only, with no business being conducted on the
following dates and times, and that following each
pro forma session, the Senate adjourn until the next
pro forma session: Monday, April 15, 2019, at 3
p.m.; Thursday, April 18, 2019, at 11:45 a.m.;
Monday, April 22, 2019, at 9 a.m.; Thursday, April
25, 2019, at 4:30 p.m.; and that when the Senate
adjourns on Thursday, April 25, 2019, it next con-
vene at 3 p.m., on Monday, April 29, 2019.
Pages S2458–59
Cooper Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of William Cooper, of
Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Department
of Energy. Page S2421
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, and pursuant to the unanimous-consent
agreement of Thursday, April 11, 2019, a vote on
cloture will occur at 5:30 p.m., on Monday, April
29, 2019. Page S2421
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S2420
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S2421
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 3 p.m., on Monday,
April 29, 2019, Senate resume consideration of the
nomination; and that notwithstanding the provisions
of Rule XXII, the cloture motions filed during to-
day’s session ripen at 5:30 p.m., on Monday, April
29, 2019. Pages S2458–59
Cooper Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of R. Clarke Cooper, of
Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Polit-
ical-Military Affairs). Page S2421
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of William Cooper, of Maryland,
to be General Counsel of the Department of Energy.
Page S2421
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S2421
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S2421
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D397
April 11, 2019
Hartogensis Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the nomination of Gordon
Hartogensis, of Connecticut, to be Director of the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation for a term of
five years. Page S2421
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of R. Clarke Cooper, of Florida,
to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Political-Mili-
tary Affairs). Page S2421
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S2421
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S2421
Barker Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of J. Campbell Barker,
of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Texas. Page S2421
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Gordon Hartogensis, of Con-
necticut, to be Director of the Pension Benefit Guar-
anty Corporation for a term of five years. Page S2421
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S2421
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S2421
Brasher Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Andrew Lynn
Brasher, of Alabama, to be United States District
Judge for the Middle District of Alabama.
Page S2421
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of J. Campbell Barker, of Texas,
to be United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Texas. Page S2421
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S2421
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S2421
Ruiz II Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Rodolfo Armando
Ruiz II, of Florida, to be United States District
Judge for the Southern District of Florida.
Page S2422
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Andrew Lynn Brasher, of Ala-
bama, to be United States District Judge for the
Middle District of Alabama. Page S2422
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Pages S2421–22
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S2422
Arias-Marxuach—Cloture: Senate began consider-
ation of the nomination of Raul M. Arias-Marxuach,
of Puerto Rico, to be United States District Judge
for the District of Puerto Rico. Page S2422
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Rodolfo Armando Ruiz II, of
Florida, to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Florida. Page S2422
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S2422
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S2422
Wolson Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Joshua Wolson, of
Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Page S2422
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Raul M. Arias-Marxuach, of
Puerto Rico, to be United States District Judge for
the District of Puerto Rico. Page S2422
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S2422
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S2422
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
By 56 yeas to 41 nays (Vote No. EX. 77), David
Bernhardt, of Virginia, to be Secretary of the Inte-
rior. Pages S2399–S2420, S2459
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D398 April 11, 2019
Daniel N. Rosenblum, of Maryland, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Uzbekistan.
Kip Tom, of Indiana, for the rank of Ambassador
during his tenure of service as U.S. Representative to
the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agri-
culture.
Robert K. Scott, of Maryland, to be Ambassador
to the Republic of Malawi.
Drew H. Wrigley, of North Dakota, to be United
States Attorney for the District of North Dakota for
the term of four years.
Wing Chau, of Rhode Island, to be United States
Marshal for the District of Rhode Island for the term
of four years.
Ramona L. Dohman, of Minnesota, to be United
States Marshal for the District of Minnesota for the
term of four years.
Nick Edward Proffitt, of Virginia, to be United
States Marshal for the Eastern District of Virginia
for the term of four years. Pages S2425, S2458, S2459
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Thomas Peter Feddo, of Virginia, to be Assistant
Secretary of the Treasury for Investment Security.
Nazak Nikakhtar, of Maryland, to be Under Sec-
retary of Commerce for Industry and Security.
Stephen M. Dickson, of Georgia, to be Adminis-
trator of the Federal Aviation Administration for the
term of five years.
Michelle A. Bekkering, of the District of Colum-
bia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United
States Agency for International Development.
Catherine Bird, of Texas, to be General Counsel
of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term
of five years.
Jonathan R. Cohen, of California, to be Ambas-
sador to the Arab Republic of Egypt.
Morse H. Tan, of Illinois, to be Ambassador at
Large for Global Criminal Justice.
Richard Giacolone, of Virginia, to be Federal Me-
diation and Conciliation Director.
29 Army nominations in the rank of general.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, Marine
Corps, and Navy. Page S2459
Nomination Withdrawn: Senate received notifica-
tion of withdrawal of the following nomination:
Robert Williams, of Virginia, to be Assistant Sec-
retary of State for South Asian Affairs, which was
sent to the Senate on January 3, 2019. Page S2460
Messages from the House: Page S2432
Measures Read the First Time: Pages S2432, S2458
Executive Communications: Page S2432
Petitions and Memorials: Page S2432
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S2436–37
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S2437–39
Additional Statements: Pages S2431–32
Amendments Submitted: Pages S2446–54
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S2454–55
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—77) Page S2420
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 5:04 p.m., until 3 p.m. on Monday, April
15, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks of
the Majority Leader in today’s Record on pages
S2458–59.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
APPROPRIATIONS: DEPARTMENT OF
AGRICULTURE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Admin-
istration, and Related Agencies concluded a hearing
to examine proposed budget estimates and justifica-
tion for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of Agri-
culture, after receiving testimony from Sonny
Perdue, Secretary, and Robert Johansson, Chief Econ-
omist, and Erica Navarro, Budget Officer, all of the
Department of Agriculture.
APPROPRIATIONS: NATIONAL INSTITUTES
OF HEALTH
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and
Education, and Related Agencies concluded a hear-
ing to examine proposed budget estimates and jus-
tification for fiscal year 2020 for the National Insti-
tutes of Health, after receiving testimony from
Francis S. Collins, Director, Douglas Lowy, Acting
Director, National Cancer Institute, Griffin P. Rod-
gers, Director, National Institute of Diabetes and
Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Anthony Fauci, Di-
rector, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, Jon Lorsch, Director, National Institute of
General Medical Sciences, Richard J. Hodes, Direc-
tor, National Institute on Aging, Nora Volkow, Di-
rector, National Institute on Drug Abuse, all of the
National Institutes of Health, Department of Health
and Human Services.
SPACE FORCE
Committee on Armed Services: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the proposal to establish a
United States Space Force, after receiving testimony
from Patrick M. Shanahan, Acting Secretary, Heather
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D399
April 11, 2019
A. Wilson, Secretary of the Air Force, General Jo-
seph F. Dunford, Jr., USMC, Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, and General John E. Hyten, USAF,
Commander, United States Strategic Command, all
of the Department of Defense.
ILLEGAL ROBOCALLS
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Communications, Technology, Innova-
tion, and the Internet concluded a hearing to exam-
ine illegal robocalls, after receiving testimony from
Doug Peterson, Nebraska Attorney General, Lincoln;
and Kevin Rupy, USTelecom—The Broadband Asso-
ciation, and Margot Freeman Saunders, National
Consumer Law Center, Washington, D.C.
GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine opportunities for en-
ergy innovation and other potential solutions to help
address global climate change, after receiving testi-
mony from Robert Bryce, Manhattan Institute, and
David B. Sandalow, Columbia Center on Global En-
ergy Policy, both of New York, New York; Sarah
Ladislaw, Center for Strategic and International
Studies Energy and National Security Program,
Washington, D.C.; Arun Majumdar, Stanford Uni-
versity Precourt Institute for Energy, Stanford, Cali-
fornia; and Abraham Silverman, NRG Energy, Inc.,
Princeton, New Jersey.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded
a hearing to examine the nominations of Kate Marie
Byrnes, of Florida, to be Ambassador to the Repub-
lic of North Macedonia, Edward F. Crawford, of
Ohio, to be Ambassador to Ireland, who was intro-
duced by Senators Brown and Portman, and David
Michael Satterfield, of Missouri, to be Ambassador to
the Republic of Turkey, all of the Department of
State, after the nominees testified and answered
questions in their own behalf.
h
House of Representatives
The House was not in session today. The House
is scheduled to meet at 2:30 p.m. on Friday, April
12, 2019.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY,
APRIL 12, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D400 April 11, 2019
* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accom-
panying report. A total of 256 written reports have been filed in the Senate,
648 reports have been filed in the House.
Résumé of Congressional Activity
SECOND SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED FIFTEENTH CONGRESS
The first table gives a comprehensive résumé of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House.
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation.
DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY
January 3, 2018 through January 3, 2019
Senate House Total
Days in session .................................... 191 174 . .
Time in session ................................... 1,015 hrs., 29′ 657 hrs., 46′ . .
Congressional Record:
Pages of proceedings ................... 8,065 10,612 . .
Extensions of Remarks ................ . . 1,751 . .
Public bills enacted into law ............... 108 221 . .
Private bills enacted into law .............. . . 1 . .
Bills in conference ............................... 1 1 . .
Measures passed, total ......................... 641 816 1,457
Senate bills .................................. 145 105 . .
House bills .................................. 224 557 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... 7 2 . .
House joint resolutions ............... 1 1 . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 14 10 . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... 15 18 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 235 123 . .
Measures reported, total ...................... *385 *610 995
Senate bills .................................. 252 11 . .
House bills .................................. 114 529 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... 1 . . . .
House joint resolutions ............... . . . . . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... . . . . . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... . . 2 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 18 68 . .
Special reports ..................................... 14 33 . .
Conference reports ............................... 4 5 . .
Measures pending on calendar ............. 405 217 . .
Measures introduced, total .................. 1,967 3,257 5,224
Bills ............................................. 1,540 2,670 . .
Joint resolutions .......................... 18 22 . .
Concurrent resolutions ................ 28 52 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 381 513 . .
Quorum calls ....................................... 2 2 . .
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 274 326 . .
Recorded votes .................................... . . 172 . .
Bills vetoed ......................................... . . . . . .
Vetoes overridden ................................ . . . . . .
DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS
January 3, 2018 through January 3, 2019
Civilian nominations, totaling 710 (including 146 nominations carried
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 392
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 296
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 22
Other Civilian nominations, totaling 2,025 (including 2 nominations
carried over from the First Session), disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 2,015
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 9
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 1
Air Force nominations, totaling 6,274 (including 76 nominations
carried over from the First Session), disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 6,264
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 9
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 1
Army nominations, totaling 7,283 (including 12 nominations carried
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 7,273
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 10
Navy nominations, totaling 4,463 (including 11 nominations carried
over from the First Session), disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 4,462
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 1
Marine Corps nominations, totaling 1,347, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,345
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 2
Summary
Total nominations carried over from the First Session ........................... 247
Total nominations received this Session ................................................ 21,855
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 21,751
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 225
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 24
Total returned to the White House ...................................................... 0
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0667 Sfmt 0667 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
HISTORY OF BILLS ENACTED
INTO PUBLIC LAW
401
(115th Cong., 2D Sess.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0663 Sfmt 0663 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0663 Sfmt 0663 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D403
April 11, 2019
BILLS ENACTED INTO PUBLIC LAW (115TH, 2D SESSION)
Law No.
S. 7 ......................... 115–403
S. 35 ....................... 115–175
S. 96 ....................... 115–129
S. 97 ....................... 115–248
S. 117 ..................... 115–122
S. 139 ..................... 115–118
S. 140 ..................... 115–282
S. 167 ..................... 115–169
S. 188 ..................... 115–158
S. 204 ..................... 115–176
S. 245 ..................... 115–325
S. 292 ..................... 115–180
S. 324 ..................... 115–159
S. 440 ..................... 115–306
S. 447 ..................... 115–171
S. 490 ..................... 115–219
S. 512 ..................... 115–439
S. 534 ..................... 115–126
S. 717 ..................... 115–237
S. 756 ..................... 115–391
S. 770 ..................... 115–236
S. 772 ..................... 115–166
S. 791 ..................... 115–259
S. 825 ..................... 115–326
S. 831 ..................... 115–137
S. 899 ..................... 115–238
S. 931 ..................... 115–220
S. 943 ..................... 115–404
S. 994 ..................... 115–249
S. 1023 ................... 115–440
S. 1050 ................... 115–337
S. 1091 ................... 115–196
S. 1158 ................... 115–441
S. 1182 ................... 115–225
S. 1282 ................... 115–181
S. 1285 ................... 115–179
S. 1311 ................... 115–392
S. 1312 ................... 115–393
S. 1438 ................... 115–128
S. 1520 ................... 115–405
S. 1580 ................... 115–442
S. 1595 ................... 115–272
S. 1668 ................... 115–260
S. 1768 ................... 115–307
S. 1862 ................... 115–427
S. 1869 ................... 115–192
S. 2030 ................... 115–161
S. 2040 ................... 115–162
S. 2074 ................... 115–308
S. 2076 ................... 115–406
S. 2101 ................... 115–338
S. 2152 ................... 115–299
S. 2155 ................... 115–174
S. 2200 ................... 115–423
S. 2245 ................... 115–226
S. 2246 ................... 115–193
S. 2248 ................... 115–407
S. 2269 ................... 115–266
S. 2276 ................... 115–414
S. 2278 ................... 115–408
S. 2372 ................... 115–182
S. 2377 ................... 115–312
S. 2465 ................... 115–327
S. 2511 ................... 115–394
S. 2553 ................... 115–262
S. 2554 ................... 115–263
Law No.
S. 2559 ................... 115–261
S. 2652 ................... 115–415
S. 2679 ................... 115–416
S. 2692 ................... 115–223
S. 2734 ................... 115–221
S. 2736 ................... 115–409
S. 2765 ................... 115–417
S. 2779 ................... 115–231
S. 2850 ................... 115–227
S. 2896 ................... 115–418
S. 2946 ................... 115–253
S. 2961 ................... 115–424
S. 3021 ................... 115–270
S. 3029 ................... 115–328
S. 3031 ................... 115–419
S. 3119 ................... 115–329
S. 3170 ................... 115–395
S. 3191 ................... 115–426
S. 3209 ................... 115–318
S. 3237 ................... 115–319
S. 3247 ................... 115–428
S. 3354 ................... 115–267
S. 3367 ................... 115–420
S. 3389 ................... 115–309
S. 3414 ................... 115–313
S. 3442 ................... 115–314
S. 3444 ................... 115–421
S. 3456 ................... 115–432
S. 3479 ................... 115–251
S. 3508 ................... 115–265
S. 3509 ................... 115–268
S. 3530 ................... 115–410
S. 3554 ................... 115–280
S. 3628 ................... 115–396
S. 3661 ................... 115–433
S. 3749 ................... 115–397
S. 3777 ................... 115–422
S.J. Res. 57 ............. 115–172
S.J. Res. 60 ............. 115–199
H.R. 2 .................... 115–334
H.R. 6 .................... 115–271
H.R. 46 .................. 115–255
H.R. 195 ................ 115–120
H.R. 219 ................ 115–200
H.R. 220 ................ 115–201
H.R. 294 ................ 115–133
H.R. 302 ................ 115–254
H.R. 315 ................ 115–320
H.R. 390 ................ 115–300
H.R. 446 ................ 115–202
H.R. 447 ................ 115–203
H.R. 452 ................ 115–134
H.R. 535 ................ 115–135
H.R. 582 ................ 115–127
H.R. 589 ................ 115–246
H.R. 606 ................ 115–283
H.R. 672 ................ 115–434
H.R. 698 ................ 115–252
H.R. 754 ................ 115–310
H.R. 767 ................ 115–398
H.R. 770 ................ 115–197
H.R. 931 ................ 115–194
H.R. 951 ................ 115–204
H.R. 984 ................ 115–121
Law No.
H.R. 1037 .............. 115–275
H.R. 1074 .............. 115–301
H.R. 1109 .............. 115–247
H.R. 1162 .............. 115–339
H.R. 1177 .............. 115–156
H.R. 1207 .............. 115–311
H.R. 1208 .............. 115–138
H.R. 1209 .............. 115–284
H.R. 1210 .............. 115–340
H.R. 1211 .............. 115–341
H.R. 1222 .............. 115–342
H.R. 1235 .............. 115–343
H.R. 1301 .............. 115–124
H.R. 1318 .............. 115–344
H.R. 1397 .............. 115–190
H.R. 1417 .............. 115–321
H.R. 1496 .............. 115–207
H.R. 1551 .............. 115–264
H.R. 1625 .............. 115–141
H.R. 1660 .............. 115–411
H.R. 1719 .............. 115–191
H.R. 1725 .............. 115–130
H.R. 1733 .............. 115–345
H.R. 1850 .............. 115–346
H.R. 1858 .............. 115–139
H.R. 1861 .............. 115–322
H.R. 1865 .............. 115–164
H.R. 1872 .............. 115–330
H.R. 1892 .............. 115–123
H.R. 1900 .............. 115–186
H.R. 1918 .............. 115–335
H.R. 1988 .............. 115–140
H.R. 2061 .............. 115–198
H.R. 2122 .............. 115–205
H.R. 2147 .............. 115–240
H.R. 2154 .............. 115–157
H.R. 2200 .............. 115–425
H.R. 2229 .............. 115–195
H.R. 2254 .............. 115–142
H.R. 2259 .............. 115–256
H.R. 2292 .............. 115–206
H.R. 2302 .............. 115–143
H.R. 2333 .............. 115–187
H.R. 2345 .............. 115–233
H.R. 2353 .............. 115–224
H.R. 2422 .............. 115–302
H.R. 2454 .............. 115–331
H.R. 2464 .............. 115–144
H.R. 2606 .............. 115–399
H.R. 2615 .............. 115–279
H.R. 2672 .............. 115–145
H.R. 2673 .............. 115–208
H.R. 2772 .............. 115–188
H.R. 2815 .............. 115–146
H.R. 2873 .............. 115–147
H.R. 2979 .............. 115–285
H.R. 3109 .............. 115–148
H.R. 3122 .............. 115–131
H.R. 3183 .............. 115–209
H.R. 3184 .............. 115–347
H.R. 3210 .............. 115–173
H.R. 3230 .............. 115–286
H.R. 3249 .............. 115–185
H.R. 3342 .............. 115–348
H.R. 3359 .............. 115–278
H.R. 3369 .............. 115–149
Law No.
H.R. 3383 .............. 115–349
H.R. 3398 .............. 115–323
H.R. 3445 .............. 115–167
H.R. 3460 .............. 115–412
H.R. 3562 .............. 115–177
H.R. 3638 .............. 115–150
H.R. 3655 .............. 115–151
H.R. 3656 .............. 115–136
H.R. 3663 .............. 115–183
H.R. 3731 .............. 115–160
H.R. 3759 .............. 115–119
H.R. 3821 .............. 115–152
H.R. 3834 .............. 115–276
H.R. 3893 .............. 115–153
H.R. 3946 .............. 115–315
H.R. 3979 .............. 115–168
H.R. 3996 .............. 115–332
H.R. 4009 .............. 115–178
H.R. 4032 .............. 115–350
H.R. 4042 .............. 115–154
H.R. 4111 .............. 115–333
H.R. 4174 .............. 115–435
H.R. 4227 .............. 115–400
H.R. 4254 .............. 115–303
H.R. 4285 .............. 115–155
H.R. 4300 .............. 115–170
H.R. 4301 .............. 115–210
H.R. 4318 .............. 115–239
H.R. 4326 .............. 115–351
H.R. 4406 .............. 115–211
H.R. 4407 .............. 115–316
H.R. 4431 .............. 115–352
H.R. 4463 .............. 115–212
H.R. 4528 .............. 115–228
H.R. 4533 .............. 115–132
H.R. 4547 .............. 115–165
H.R. 4574 .............. 115–213
H.R. 4645 .............. 115–229
H.R. 4646 .............. 115–214
H.R. 4685 .............. 115–215
H.R. 4689 .............. 115–429
H.R. 4708 .............. 115–125
H.R. 4722 .............. 115–216
H.R. 4743 .............. 115–189
H.R. 4819 .............. 115–353
H.R. 4840 .............. 115–217
H.R. 4851 .............. 115–163
H.R. 4854 .............. 115–257
H.R. 4890 .............. 115–287
H.R. 4910 .............. 115–184
H.R. 4913 .............. 115–288
H.R. 4921 .............. 115–269
H.R. 4946 .............. 115–289
H.R. 4958 .............. 115–258
H.R. 4960 .............. 115–290
H.R. 5075 .............. 115–401
H.R. 5205 .............. 115–354
H.R. 5238 .............. 115–317
H.R. 5317 .............. 115–304
H.R. 5349 .............. 115–291
H.R. 5385 .............. 115–241
H.R. 5395 .............. 115–355
H.R. 5412 .............. 115–356
H.R. 5475 .............. 115–357
H.R. 5504 .............. 115–292
H.R. 5509 .............. 115–402
Law No.
H.R. 5515 .............. 115–232
H.R. 5554 .............. 115–234
H.R. 5636 .............. 115–430
H.R. 5729 .............. 115–230
H.R. 5737 .............. 115–293
H.R. 5759 .............. 115–336
H.R. 5772 .............. 115–242
H.R. 5784 .............. 115–294
H.R. 5787 .............. 115–358
H.R. 5791 .............. 115–359
H.R. 5792 .............. 115–360
H.R. 5868 .............. 115–295
H.R. 5895 .............. 115–244
H.R. 5923 .............. 115–361
H.R. 5935 .............. 115–296
H.R. 5956 .............. 115–218
H.R. 6020 .............. 115–362
H.R. 6042 .............. 115–222
H.R. 6059 .............. 115–363
H.R. 6116 .............. 115–297
H.R. 6124 .............. 115–243
H.R. 6157 .............. 115–245
H.R. 6160 .............. 115–364
H.R. 6167 .............. 115–365
H.R. 6216 .............. 115–366
H.R. 6217 .............. 115–367
H.R. 6227 .............. 115–368
H.R. 6287 .............. 115–413
H.R. 6330 .............. 115–324
H.R. 6335 .............. 115–369
H.R. 6347 .............. 115–370
H.R. 6348 .............. 115–371
H.R. 6400 .............. 115–372
H.R. 6405 .............. 115–373
H.R. 6414 .............. 115–235
H.R. 6428 .............. 115–374
H.R. 6513 .............. 115–375
H.R. 6591 .............. 115–376
H.R. 6602 .............. 115–431
H.R. 6615 .............. 115–377
H.R. 6621 .............. 115–378
H.R. 6628 .............. 115–379
H.R. 6651 .............. 115–305
H.R. 6655 .............. 115–380
H.R. 6758 .............. 115–273
H.R. 6780 .............. 115–381
H.R. 6831 .............. 115–382
H.R. 6870 .............. 115–277
H.R. 6893 .............. 115–383
H.R. 6896 .............. 115–274
H.R. 6897 .............. 115–250
H.R. 6930 .............. 115–384
H.R. 6964 .............. 115–385
H.R. 7120 .............. 115–386
H.R. 7187 .............. 115–281
H.R. 7213 .............. 115–387
H.R. 7230 .............. 115–388
H.R. 7243 .............. 115–389
H.R. 7279 .............. 115–436
H.R. 7318 .............. 115–437
H.R. 7319 .............. 115–438
H.R. 7327 .............. 115–390
H.J. Res. 143 ......... 115–298
BILLS VETOED
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0669 Sfmt 0669 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0669 Sfmt 0669 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D405
April 11, 2019
Title
Bill
No.
Date
intro-
duced
Committee
Date
Reported
Report
No.
Date
of
passage
Public
Law
House
Senate
House
Senate
House
115–
Senate
115–
House
Senate
Date
ap-
proved
No.
115–
To
amend
the
Foreign
Intelligence
Surveil-
lance
Act
of
1978
to
improve
foreign
intel-
ligence
collection
and
the
safeguards,
ac-
countability,
and
oversight
of
acquisitions
of
foreign
intelligence,
to
extend
title
VII
of
such
Act,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
139
Jan.
12,
2017
Jud
..................
May
11,
2017
............
0
Jan.
11,
2018
May
16,
2017
Jan.
19,
2018
118
To
provide
for
the
establishment
and
mainte-
nance
of
a
Family
Caregiving
Strategy,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
3759
Sept.
13,
2017
E&W
HEL&P
............
............
Dec.
18,
2017
Jan.
8,
2018
Jan.
22,
2018
119
Making
further
continuing
appropriations
for
the
fiscal
year
ending
September
30,
2018,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
195
Jan.
3,
2017
OGR
HA
HS&GA
May
17,
2017
Nov.
8,
2017
128
184
May
17,
2017
Dec.
21,
2017
Jan.
22,
2018
120
To
extend
Federal
recognition
to
the
Chicka-
hominy
Indian
Tribe,
the
Chickahominy
Indian
Tribe-Eastern
Division,
the
Upper
Mattaponi
Tribe,
the
Rappahannock
Tribe,
Inc.,
the
Monacan
Indian
Nation,
and
the
Nansemond
Indian
Tribe.
H.R.
984
Feb.
7,
2017
NR
IA
............
............
May
17,
2017
Jan.
11,
2018
Jan.
29,
2018
121
To
designate
a
mountain
peak
in
the
State
of
Montana
as
‘‘Alex
Diekmann
Peak’’.
S.
117
Jan.
12,
2017
NR
ENR
Jan.
16,
2018
June
8,
2017
516
94
Jan.
16,
2018
Dec.
20,
2017
Jan.
31,
2018
122
To
amend
title
4,
United
States
Code,
to
pro-
vide
for
the
flying
of
the
flag
at
half-staff
in
the
event
of
the
death
of
a
first
re-
sponder
in
the
line
of
duty.
H.R.
1892
Apr.
4,
2017
Jud
Jud
May
15,
2017
119
............
May
18,
2017
Nov.
28,
2017
Feb.
9,
2018
123
Making
appropriations
for
the
Department
of
Defense
for
the
fiscal
year
ending
Sep-
tember
30,
2017,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
1301
Mar.
2,
2017
App
Bud
..................
............
............
Mar.
8,
2017
Feb.
9,
2018
Feb.
9,
2018
124
To
amend
the
Homeland
Security
Act
of
2002
to
require
the
Secretary
of
Homeland
Security
to
issue
Department
of
Homeland
Security-wide
guidance
and
develop
train-
ing
programs
as
part
of
the
Department
of
Homeland
Security
Blue
Campaign,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
4708
Dec.
21,
2017
HS
Jud
..................
............
............
Jan.
11,
2018
Jan.
30,
2018
Feb.
14,
2018
125
To
prevent
the
sexual
abuse
of
minors
and
amateur
athletes
by
requiring
the
prompt
reporting
of
sexual
abuse
to
law
enforce-
ment
authorities,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
534
Mar.
6,
2017
Jud
..................
June
8,
2017
............
0
Jan.
29,
2018
Nov.
14,
2017
Feb.
14,
2018
126
To
amend
the
Communications
Act
of
1934
to
require
multi-line
telephone
systems
to
have
a
configuration
that
permits
users
to
directly
initiate
a
call
to
9-1-1
without
di-
aling
any
additional
digit,
code,
prefix,
or
post-fix,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
582
Jan.
17,
2017
EC
CST
............
............
Jan.
23,
2017
Feb.
5,
2018
Feb.
16,
2018
127
To
redesignate
the
Jefferson
National
Expan-
sion
Memorial
in
the
State
of
Missouri
as
the
‘‘Gateway
Arch
National
Park’’.
S.
1438
June
26,
2017
NR
ENR
............
............
Feb.
7,
2018
Dec.
21,
2017
Feb.
22,
2018
128
To
amend
the
Communications
Act
of
1934
to
ensure
the
integrity
of
voice
commu-
nications
and
to
prevent
unjust
or
unrea-
sonable
discrimination
among
areas
of
the
United
States
in
the
delivery
of
such
com-
munications.
S.
96
Jan.
11,
2017
CST
..................
Mar.
21,
2017
............
6
Feb.
9,
2018
Aug.
3,
2017
Feb.
26,
2018
129
To
direct
the
Secretary
of
Veterans
Affairs
to
submit
certain
reports
relating
to
medical
evidence
submitted
in
support
of
claims
for
benefits
under
the
laws
administered
by
the
Secretary.
H.R.
1725
Mar.
24,
2017
VA
VA
May
19,
2017
133
............
May
23,
2017
Feb.
15,
2018
Mar.
9,
2018
130
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D406 April 11, 2019
Title
Bill
No.
Date
intro-
duced
Committee
Date
Reported
Report
No.
Date
of
passage
Public
Law
House
Senate
House
Senate
House
115–
Senate
115–
House
Senate
Date
ap-
proved
No.
115–
To
direct
the
Secretary
of
Veterans
Affairs
to
include
on
the
internet
website
of
the
De-
partment
of
Veterans
Affairs
a
warning
re-
garding
dishonest,
predatory,
or
otherwise
unlawful
practices
targeting
individuals
who
are
eligible
for
increased
pension
on
the
basis
of
need
for
regular
aid
and
at-
tendance,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
3122
June
29,
2017
VA
VA
Nov.
6,
2017
385
............
Nov.
6,
2017
Feb.
15,
2018
Mar.
9,
2018
131
To
designate
the
health
care
system
of
the
Department
of
Veterans
Affairs
in
Lex-
ington,
Kentucky,
as
the
‘‘Lexington
VA
Health
Care
System’’
and
to
make
certain
other
designations.
H.R.
4533
Dec.
4,
2017
VA
..................
............
............
Feb.
13,
2018
Feb.
15,
2018
Mar.
9,
2018
132
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
2700
Cullen
Bou-
levard
in
Pearland,
Texas,
as
the
‘‘Endy
Nddiobong
Ekpanya
Post
Office
Build-
ing’’.
H.R.
294
Jan.
5,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Oct.
10,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
16,
2018
133
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
324
West
Saint
Louis
Street
in
Pacific,
Missouri,
as
the
‘‘Specialist
Jeffrey
L.
White,
Jr.
Post
Of-
fice’’.
H.R.
452
Jan.
11,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Oct.
11,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
16,
2018
134
To
encourage
visits
between
the
United
States
and
Taiwan
at
all
levels,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
535
Jan.
13,
2017
FA
FR
Feb.
12,
2018
............
0
Jan.
9,
2018
Feb.
28,
2018
Mar.
16,
2018
135
To
amend
title
38,
United
States
Code,
to
provide
for
a
consistent
eligibility
date
for
provision
of
Department
of
Veterans
Af-
fairs
memorial
headstones
and
markers
for
eligible
spouses
and
dependent
children
of
veterans
whose
remains
are
unavailable.
H.R.
3656
Aug.
18,
2017
VA
VA
Nov.
6,
2017
387
............
Nov.
6,
2017
Mar.
1,
2018
Mar.
16,
2018
136
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
120
West
Pike
Street
in
Canonsburg,
Pennsylvania,
as
the
‘‘Police
Officer
Scott
Bashioum
Post
Office
Building’’.
S.
831
Apr.
5,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
May
17,
2017
............
0
Mar.
5,
2018
June
13,
2017
Mar.
16,
2018
137
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
9155
Schaefer
Road,
Converse,
Texas,
as
the
‘‘Converse
Veterans
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
1208
Feb.
21,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Dec.
12,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
20,
2018
138
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
4514
Williamson
Trail
in
Liberty,
Pennsylvania,
as
the
‘‘Staff
Sergeant
Ryan
Scott
Ostrom
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
1858
Apr.
3,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Oct.
10,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
20,
2018
139
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
1730
18th
Street
in
Bakersfield,
California,
as
the
‘‘Merle
Haggard
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
1988
Apr.
6,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
July
11,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
20,
2018
140
To
amend
the
State
Department
Basic
Au-
thorities
Act
of
1956
to
include
severe
forms
of
trafficking
in
persons
within
the
definition
of
transnational
organized
crime
for
purposes
of
the
rewards
program
of
the
Department
of
State,
and
for
other
pur-
poses.
H.R.
1625
Mar.
20,
2017
FA
FR
Feb.
12,
2018
............
0
May
22,
2017
Feb.
28,
2018
Mar.
23,
2018
141
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D407
April 11, 2019
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
2635
Napa
Street
in
Vallejo,
California,
as
the
‘‘Janet
Capello
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
2254
Apr.
28,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Oct.
10,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
23,
2018
142
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
259
Nassau
Street,
Suite
2
in
Princeton,
New
Jersey,
as
the
‘‘Dr.
John
F.
Nash,
Jr.
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
2302
May
2,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Oct.
11,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
23,
2018
143
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
25
New
Chardon
Street
Lobby
in
Boston,
Massachusetts,
as
the
‘‘John
Fitzgerald
Kennedy
Post
Of-
fice’’.
H.R.
2464
May
16,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Oct.
10,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
23,
2018
144
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
520
Carter
Street
in
Fairview,
Illinois,
as
the
‘‘Sgt.
Douglas
J.
Riney
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
2672
May
25,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Nov.
15,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
23,
2018
145
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
30
East
Somerset
Street
in
Raritan,
New
Jersey,
as
the
‘‘Gunnery
Sergeant
John
Basilone
Post
Of-
fice’’.
H.R.
2815
June
7,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Dec.
14,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
23,
2018
146
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
207
Glenside
Ave-
nue
in
Wyncote,
Pennsylvania,
as
the
‘‘Staff
Sergeant
Peter
Taub
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
2873
June
12,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Nov.
15,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
23,
2018
147
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
1114
North
2nd
Street
in
Chillicothe,
Illinois,
as
the
‘‘Sr.
Chief
Ryan
Owens
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
3109
June
29,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Nov.
16,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
23,
2018
148
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
225
North
Main
Street
in
Spring
Lake,
North
Carolina,
as
the
‘‘Howard
B.
Pate,
Jr.
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
3369
July
24,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Nov.
15,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
23,
2018
149
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
1100
Kings
Road
in
Jacksonville,
Florida,
as
the
‘‘Rutledge
Pearson
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
3638
Aug.
1,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Dec.
12,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
23,
2018
150
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
1300
Main
Street
in
Belmar,
New
Jersey,
as
the
‘‘Dr.
Walter
S.
McAfee
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
3655
Aug.
15,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Dec.
12,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
23,
2018
151
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
430
Main
Street
in
Clermont,
Georgia,
as
the
‘‘Zack
T.
Addington
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
3821
Sept.
25,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Nov.
15,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
23,
2018
152
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
100
Mathe
Ave-
nue
in
Interlachen,
Florida,
as
the
‘‘Robert
H.
Jenkins,
Jr.
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
3893
Sept.
28,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Nov.
15,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
23,
2018
153
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
1415
West
Oak
Street,
in
Kissimmee,
Florida,
as
the
‘‘Borinqueneers
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
4042
Oct.
12,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Dec.
14,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
23,
2018
154
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
123
Bridgeton
Pike
in
Mullica
Hill,
New
Jersey,
as
the
‘‘James
C.
‘Billy’
Johnson
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
4285
Nov.
7,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Dec.
12,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Mar.
23,
2018
155
To
direct
the
Secretary
of
Agriculture
to
re-
lease
on
behalf
of
the
United
States
the
condition
that
certain
lands
conveyed
to
the
City
of
Old
Town,
Maine,
be
used
for
a
municipal
airport,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
1177
Feb.
16,
2017
Agr
ANF
May
16,
2017
124
............
May
17,
2017
Mar.
8,
2018
Mar.
26,
2018
156
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D408 April 11, 2019
Title
Bill
No.
Date
intro-
duced
Committee
Date
Reported
Report
No.
Date
of
passage
Public
Law
House
Senate
House
Senate
House
115–
Senate
115–
House
Senate
Date
ap-
proved
No.
115–
To
rename
the
Red
River
Valley
Agricultural
Research
Center
in
Fargo,
North
Dakota,
as
the
Edward
T.
Schafer
Agricultural
Re-
search
Center.
H.R.
2154
Apr.
26,
2017
Agr
ANF
May
16,
2017
125
............
May
17,
2017
Mar.
14,
2018
Mar.
27,
2018
157
To
amend
title
31,
United
States
Code,
to
prohibit
the
use
of
Federal
funds
for
the
costs
of
painting
portraits
of
officers
and
employees
of
the
Federal
Government,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
188
Jan.
23,
2017
HS&GA
..................
Apr.
24,
2017
............
28
Mar.
6,
2018
Sept.
18,
2017
Mar.
27,
2018
158
To
amend
title
38,
United
States
Code,
to
improve
the
provision
of
adult
day
health
care
services
for
veterans.
S.
324
Feb.
7,
2017
VA
..................
............
............
Mar.
13,
2018
Nov.
9,
2017
Mar.
27,
2018
159
To
provide
overtime
pay
for
employees
of
the
United
States
Secret
Service,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
3731
Sept.
11,
2017
Jud
OGR
Jud
Dec.
4,
2017
435
............
Dec.
5,
2017
Mar.
19,
2018
Apr.
3,
2018
160
To
deem
the
compliance
date
for
amended
energy
conservation
standards
for
ceiling
fan
light
kits
to
be
January
21,
2020,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
2030
Oct.
30,
2017
EC
ENR
............
............
Mar.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2017
Apr.
3,
2018
161
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
621
Kansas
Ave-
nue
in
Atchison,
Kansas,
as
the
‘‘Amelia
Earhart
Post
Office
Building’’.
S.
2040
Oct.
31,
2017
HS&GA
..................
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Mar.
20,
2018
Mar.
7,
2018
Apr.
3,
2018
162
To
establish
the
Kennedy-King
National
Commemorative
Site
in
the
State
of
Indi-
ana,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
4851
Jan.
19,
2018
NR
Mar.
19,
2018
..................
612
............
Mar.
19,
2018
Mar.
22,
2018
Apr.
4,
2018
163
To
amend
the
Communications
Act
of
1934
to
clarify
that
section
230
of
such
Act
does
not
prohibit
the
enforcement
against
pro-
viders
and
users
of
interactive
computer
services
of
Federal
and
State
criminal
and
civil
law
relating
to
sexual
exploitation
of
children
or
sex
trafficking,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
1865
Apr.
3,
2017
Jud
EC
Feb.
20,
2018
..................
572
............
Feb.
27,
2018
Mar.
21,
2018
Apr.
11,
2018
164
To
amend
titles
II,
VIII,
and
XVI
of
the
So-
cial
Security
Act
to
improve
and
strength-
en
the
representative
payment
program.
H.R.
4547
Dec.
5,
2017
WM
Fin
............
............
Feb.
5,
2018
Mar.
23,
2018
Apr.
13,
2018
165
To
amend
the
PROTECT
Act
to
make
In-
dian
tribes
eligible
for
AMBER
Alert
grants.
S.
772
Mar.
29,
2017
Jud
IA
Sept.
5,
2017
............
147
Feb.
26,
2018
Nov.
29,
2017
Apr.
13,
2018
166
To
enhance
the
transparency
and
accelerate
the
impact
of
programs
under
the
African
Growth
and
Opportunity
Act
and
the
Mil-
lennium
Challenge
Corporation,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
3445
July
27,
2017
FA
Jan.
3,
2018
..................
484
............
Jan.
17,
2018
Apr.
9,
2018
Apr.
23,
2018
167
To
amend
the
Fish
and
Wildlife
Act
of
1956
to
reauthorize
the
volunteer
services,
com-
munity
partnership,
and
refuge
education
programs
of
the
National
Wildlife
Refuge
System,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
3979
Oct.
5,
2017
NR
Dec.
5,
2017
..................
438
............
Dec.
18,
2017
Apr.
9,
2018
Apr.
23,
2018
168
To
designate
a
National
Memorial
to
Fallen
Educators
at
the
National
Teachers
Hall
of
Fame
in
Emporia,
Kansas.
S.
167
Jan.
17,
2017
NR
ENR
June
8,
2017
............
95
Apr.
16,
2018
Dec.
21,
2017
Apr.
30,
2018
169
To
authorize
Pacific
Historic
Parks
to
estab-
lish
a
commemorative
display
to
honor
members
of
the
United
States
Armed
Forces
who
served
in
the
Pacific
Theater
of
World
War
II,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
4300
Nov.
8,
2017
NR
ENR
Dec.
6,
2017
Mar.
21,
2018
450
216
Dec.
7,
2017
Apr.
23,
2018
May
7,
2018
170
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D409
April 11, 2019
To
require
reporting
on
acts
of
certain
foreign
countries
on
Holocaust
era
assets
and
re-
lated
issues.
S.
447
Feb.
27,
2017
FA
FR
Dec.
5,
2017
............
0
Apr.
24,
2018
Dec.
12,
2017
May
9,
2018
171
Providing
for
congressional
disapproval
under
chapter
8
of
title
5,
United
States
Code,
of
the
rule
submitted
by
Bureau
of
Consumer
Financial
Protection
relating
to
‘‘Indirect
Auto
Lending
and
Compliance
with
the
Equal
Credit
Opportunity
Act’’.
S.J.
Res.
57
Mar.
22,
2018
BHUA
..................
............
............
May
8,
2018
Apr.
18,
2018
May
21,
2018
172
To
require
the
Director
of
the
National
Back-
ground
Investigations
Bureau
to
submit
a
report
on
the
backlog
of
personnel
security
clearance
investigations,
and
for
other
pur-
poses.
H.R.
3210
July
12,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
July
25,
2017
Nov.
27,
2017
258
185
July
26,
2017
Mar.
15,
2018
May
22,
2018
173
To
promote
economic
growth,
provide
tai-
lored
regulatory
relief,
and
enhance
con-
sumer
protections,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
2155
Nov.
16,
2017
BHUA
..................
Dec.
18,
2017
............
0
May
22,
2018
Mar.
14,
2018
May
24,
2018
174
To
transfer
administrative
jurisdiction
over
certain
Bureau
of
Land
Management
land
from
the
Secretary
of
the
Interior
to
the
Secretary
of
Veterans
Affairs
for
inclusion
in
the
Black
Hills
National
Cemetery,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
35
Jan.
5,
2017
NR
VA
ENR
Apr.
10,
2018
May
3,
2017
626
35
May
16,
2018
Dec.
21,
2017
May
25,
2018
175
To
authorize
the
use
of
unapproved
medical
products
by
patients
diagnosed
with
a
ter-
minal
illness
in
accordance
with
State
law,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
204
Jan.
24,
2017
EC
HEL&P
............
............
May
22,
2018
Aug.
3,
2017
May
30,
2018
176
To
amend
title
38,
United
States
Code,
to
authorize
the
Secretary
of
Veterans
Affairs
to
furnish
assistance
for
adaptations
of
resi-
dences
of
veterans
in
rehabilitation
pro-
grams
under
chapter
31
of
such
title,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
3562
July
28,
2017
VA
VA
Nov.
6,
2017
386
............
Nov.
6,
2017
May
16,
2018
June
1,
2018
177
To
authorize
the
Board
of
Regents
of
the
Smithsonian
Institution
to
plan,
design,
and
construct
a
central
parking
facility
on
National
Zoological
Park
property
in
the
District
of
Columbia.
H.R.
4009
Oct.
11,
2017
HA
TI
RAdm
............
............
Apr.
25,
2018
May
16,
2018
June
1,
2018
178
To
allow
the
Confederated
Tribes
of
Coos,
Lower
Umpqua,
and
Siuslaw
Indians,
the
Confederated
Tribes
of
the
Grand
Ronde
Community
of
Oregon,
the
Confederated
Tribes
of
Siletz
Indians
of
Oregon,
the
Confederated
Tribes
of
Warm
Springs,
and
the
Cow
Creek
Band
of
Umpqua
Tribe
of
Indians
to
lease
or
transfer
certain
lands.
S.
1285
May
25,
2017
NR
IA
Jan.
10,
2018
Oct.
17,
2017
507
175
May
15,
2018
Nov.
29,
2017
June
1,
2018
179
To
maximize
discovery,
and
accelerate
devel-
opment
and
availability,
of
promising
childhood
cancer
treatments,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
292
Feb.
2,
2017
EC
HEL&P
Mar.
12,
2018
............
0
May
22,
2018
Mar.
22,
2018
June
5,
2018
180
To
redesignate
certain
clinics
of
the
Depart-
ment
of
Veterans
Affairs
located
in
Mon-
tana.
S.
1282
May
25,
2017
VA
VA
............
............
May
21,
2018
Aug.
2,
2017
June
5,
2018
181
To
establish
a
permanent
community
care
program
for
veterans,
to
establish
a
com-
mission
for
the
purpose
of
making
rec-
ommendations
regarding
the
modernization
or
realignment
of
facilities
of
the
Veterans
Health
Administration,
to
improve
con-
struction
of
the
Department
of
Veterans
Affairs,
to
make
certain
improvements
in
the
laws
administered
by
the
Secretary
of
Veterans
Affairs
relating
to
the
home
loan
program
of
the
Department
of
Veterans
Affairs,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
2372
Feb.
5,
2018
VA
NR
VA
............
............
May
16,
2018
Mar.
1,
2018
June
6,
2018
182
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D410 April 11, 2019
Title
Bill
No.
Date
intro-
duced
Committee
Date
Reported
Report
No.
Date
of
passage
Public
Law
House
Senate
House
Senate
House
115–
Senate
115–
House
Senate
Date
ap-
proved
No.
115–
To
designate
the
medical
center
of
the
De-
partment
of
Veterans
Affairs
in
Hun-
tington,
West
Virginia,
as
the
Hershel
‘‘Woody’’
Williams
VA
Medical
Center.
H.R.
3663
Aug.
22,
2017
VA
VA
............
............
May
21,
2018
May
24,
2018
June
15,
2018
183
To
amend
title
38,
United
States
Code,
to
provide
outer
burial
receptacles
for
remains
buried
in
National
Parks,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
4910
Jan.
30,
2018
VA
NR
..................
............
............
May
7,
2018
May
24,
2018
June
15,
2018
184
To
authorize
the
Project
Safe
Neighborhoods
Grant
Program,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
3249
July
14,
2017
Jud
Jud
Mar.
14,
2018
597
............
Mar.
14,
2018
May
16,
2018
June
18,
2018
185
To
designate
the
Veterans
Memorial
and
Mu-
seum
in
Columbus,
Ohio,
as
the
National
Veterans
Memorial
and
Museum,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
1900
Apr.
4,
2017
VA
NR
ENR
Nov.
7,
2017
May
23,
2018
399
304
Nov.
7,
2017
June
6,
2018
June
21,
2018
186
To
amend
the
Small
Business
Investment
Act
of
1958
to
increase
the
amount
of
leverage
made
available
to
small
business
invest-
ment
companies.
H.R.
2333
May
3,
2017
SB
SBE
July
12,
2017
215
............
July
24,
2017
June
5,
2018
June
21,
2018
187
To
amend
title
38,
United
States
Code,
to
provide
for
requirements
relating
to
the
re-
assignment
of
Department
of
Veterans
Af-
fairs
senior
executive
employees.
H.R.
2772
June
6,
2017
VA
VA
July
24,
2017
248
............
July
28,
2017
May
16,
2018
June
21,
2018
188
To
amend
the
Small
Business
Act
to
strengthen
the
Office
of
Credit
Risk
Man-
agement
within
the
Small
Business
Ad-
ministration,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
4743
Jan.
9,
2018
SB
Apr.
26,
2018
..................
655
............
May
8,
2018
June
5,
2018
June
21,
2018
189
To
authorize,
direct,
facilitate,
and
expedite
the
transfer
of
administrative
jurisdiction
of
certain
Federal
land,
and
for
other
pur-
poses.
H.R.
1397
Mar.
7,
2017
NR
TI
ENR
July
11,
2017
May
24,
2018
206
257
July
11,
2017
June
6,
2018
June
22,
2018
190
To
authorize
the
Secretary
of
the
Interior
to
acquire
approximately
44
acres
of
land
in
Martinez,
California,
for
inclusion
in
the
John
Muir
National
Historic
Site,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
1719
Mar.
24,
2017
NR
July
11,
2017
..................
208
............
July
11,
2017
June
6,
2018
June
22,
2018
191
To
reauthorize
and
rename
the
position
of
Whistleblower
Ombudsman
to
be
the
Whistleblower
Protection
Coordinator.
S.
1869
Sept.
27,
2017
HS&GA
..................
Dec.
14,
2017
............
196
June
7,
2018
Mar.
15,
2018
June
25,
2018
192
To
designate
the
health
care
center
of
the
De-
partment
of
Veterans
Affairs
in
Tallahassee,
Florida,
as
the
Sergeant
Ernest
I.
‘‘Boots’’
Thomas
VA
Clinic,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
2246
Dec.
19,
2017
VA
VA
............
............
June
7,
2018
Feb.
14,
2018
June
25,
2018
193
To
require
the
Secretary
of
Health
and
Human
Services
to
develop
a
voluntary
registry
to
collect
data
on
cancer
incidence
among
firefighters.
H.R.
931
Feb.
7,
2017
EC
HEL&P
Sept.
8,
2017
301
............
Sept.
12,
2017
May
10,
2018
July
7,
2018
194
To
amend
title
5,
United
States
Code,
to
pro-
vide
permanent
authority
for
judicial
re-
view
of
certain
Merit
Systems
Protection
Board
decisions
relating
to
whistleblowers,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
2229
Apr.
28,
2017
OGR
Jud
HS&GA
Oct.
2,
2017
Apr.
12,
2018
337
229
Oct.
11,
2017
June
12,
2018
July
7,
2018
195
To
establish
a
Federal
Advisory
Council
to
Support
Grandparents
Raising
Grand-
children.
S.
1091
May
10,
2017
E&W
EC
HEL&P
Mar.
12,
2018
............
0
June
13,
2018
Mar.
22,
2018
July
7,
2018
196
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D411
April 11, 2019
To
require
the
Secretary
of
the
Treasury
to
mint
coins
in
recognition
of
American
in-
novation
and
significant
innovation
and
pioneering
efforts
of
individuals
or
groups
from
each
of
the
50
States,
the
District
of
Columbia,
and
the
United
States
terri-
tories,
to
promote
the
importance
of
inno-
vation
in
the
United
States,
the
District
of
Columbia,
and
the
United
States
terri-
tories,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
770
Jan.
31,
2017
FS
BHUA
............
............
Jan.
16,
2018
June
20,
2018
July
20,
2018
197
To
reauthorize
the
North
Korean
Human
Rights
Act
of
2004,
and
for
other
pur-
poses.
H.R.
2061
Apr.
6,
2017
FA
FR
............
............
Sept.
25,
2017
Apr.
24,
2018
July
20,
2018
198
Providing
for
the
reappointment
of
Barbara
M.
Barrett
as
a
citizen
regent
of
the
Board
of
Regents
of
the
Smithsonian
Institution.
S.J.
Res.
60
Apr.
24,
2018
HA
RAdm
............
............
June
28,
2018
May
17,
2018
July
20,
2018
199
To
correct
the
Swan
Lake
hydroelectric
project
survey
boundary
and
to
provide
for
the
conveyance
of
the
remaining
tract
of
land
within
the
corrected
survey
boundary
to
the
State
of
Alaska.
H.R.
219
Jan.
3,
2017
NR
Jan.
29,
2018
..................
532
............
Feb.
6,
2018
June
28,
2018
July
20,
2018
200
To
authorize
the
expansion
of
an
existing
hy-
droelectric
project,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
220
Jan.
3,
2017
NR
June
2,
2017
..................
154
............
June
27,
2017
June
28,
2018
July
20,
2018
201
To
extend
the
deadline
for
commencement
of
construction
of
a
hydroelectric
project.
H.R.
446
Jan.
11,
2017
EC
June
12,
2017
..................
169
............
June
12,
2017
June
28,
2018
July
23,
2018
202
To
extend
the
deadline
for
commencement
of
construction
of
a
hydroelectric
project.
H.R.
447
Jan.
11,
2017
EC
June
12,
2017
..................
170
............
June
12,
2017
June
28,
2018
July
23,
2018
203
To
extend
the
deadline
for
commencement
of
construction
of
a
hydroelectric
project.
H.R.
951
Feb.
7,
2017
EC
June
12,
2017
..................
172
............
June
12,
2017
June
28,
2018
July
23,
2018
204
To
reinstate
and
extend
the
deadline
for
com-
mencement
of
construction
of
a
hydro-
electric
project
involving
Jennings
Ran-
dolph
Dam.
H.R.
2122
Apr.
25,
2017
EC
June
12,
2017
..................
175
............
June
12,
2017
June
28,
2018
July
23,
2018
205
To
extend
a
project
of
the
Federal
Energy
Regulatory
Commission
involving
the
Cannonsville
Dam.
H.R.
2292
May
2,
2017
EC
June
12,
2017
..................
174
............
June
12,
2017
June
28,
2018
July
23,
2018
206
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
3585
South
Vermont
Avenue
in
Los
Angeles,
Cali-
fornia,
as
the
‘‘Marvin
Gaye
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
1496
Mar.
10,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
June
14,
2018
............
0
May
7,
2018
June
28,
2018
July
24,
2018
207
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
514
Broadway
Street
in
Pekin,
Illinois,
as
the
‘‘Lance
Cor-
poral
Jordan
S.
Bastean
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
2673
May
25,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
June
14,
2018
............
0
Mar.
5,
2018
June
28,
2018
July
24,
2018
208
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
13683
James
Madison
Highway
in
Palmyra,
Virginia,
as
the
‘‘U.S.
Navy
Seaman
Dakota
Kyle
Rigsby
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
3183
July
11,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
June
14,
2018
............
0
Mar.
5,
2018
June
28,
2018
July
24,
2018
209
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
201
Tom
Hall
Street
in
Fort
Mill,
South
Carolina,
as
the
‘‘J.
Elliott
Williams
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
4301
Nov.
8,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
June
14,
2018
............
0
May
7,
2018
June
28,
2018
July
24,
2018
210
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
99
Macombs
Place
in
New
York,
New
York,
as
the
‘‘Tuskegee
Airmen
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
4406
Nov.
15,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
June
14,
2018
............
0
Mar.
5,
2018
June
28,
2018
July
24,
2018
211
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
6
Doyers
Street
in
New
York,
New
York,
as
the
‘‘Mabel
Lee
Memorial
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
4463
Nov.
28,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
June
14,
2018
............
0
Mar.
20,
2018
June
28,
2018
July
24,
2018
212
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D412 April 11, 2019
Title
Bill
No.
Date
intro-
duced
Committee
Date
Reported
Report
No.
Date
of
passage
Public
Law
House
Senate
House
Senate
House
115–
Senate
115–
House
Senate
Date
ap-
proved
No.
115–
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
108
West
Schick
Road
in
Bloomingdale,
Illinois,
as
the
‘‘Bloomingdale
Veterans
Memorial
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
4574
Dec.
6,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
June
14,
2018
............
0
May
7,
2018
June
28,
2018
July
24,
2018
213
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
1900
Corporate
Drive
in
Birmingham,
Alabama,
as
the
‘‘Lance
Corporal
Thomas
E.
Rivers,
Jr.
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
4646
Dec.
14,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
June
14,
2018
............
0
Mar.
5,
2018
June
28,
2018
July
24,
2018
214
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
515
Hope
Street
in
Bristol,
Rhode
Island,
as
the
‘‘First
Ser-
geant
P.
Andrew
McKenna
Jr.
Post
Of-
fice’’.
H.R.
4685
Dec.
19,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
June
14,
2018
............
0
Mar.
5,
2018
June
28,
2018
July
24,
2018
215
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
111
Market
Street
in
Saugerties,
New
York,
as
the
‘‘Maurice
D.
Hinchey
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
4722
Dec.
21,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
June
14,
2018
............
0
May
7,
2018
June
28,
2018
July
24,
2018
216
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
567
East
Franklin
Street
in
Oviedo,
Florida,
as
the
‘‘Sergeant
First
Class
Alwyn
Crendall
Cashe
Post
Of-
fice
Building’’.
H.R.
4840
Jan.
18,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
June
14,
2018
............
0
May
7,
2018
June
28,
2018
July
24,
2018
217
To
incentivize
the
hiring
of
United
States
workers
in
the
Commonwealth
of
the
Northern
Mariana
Islands,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
5956
May
24,
2018
NR
..................
............
............
June
5,
2018
June
28,
2018
July
24,
2018
218
To
reinstate
and
extend
the
deadline
for
com-
mencement
of
construction
of
a
hydro-
electric
project
involving
the
Gibson
Dam.
S.
490
Mar.
2,
2017
EC
ENR
June
8,
2017
............
100
July
16,
2018
June
28,
2018
July
27,
2018
219
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
4910
Brighton
Boulevard
in
Denver,
Colorado,
as
the
‘‘George
Sakato
Post
Office’’.
S.
931
Apr.
25,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
July
16,
2018
Mar.
7,
2018
July
27,
2018
220
To
designate
the
Federal
building
and
United
States
courthouse
located
at
1300
Victoria
Street
in
Laredo,
Texas,
as
the
‘‘George
P.
Kazen
Federal
Building
and
United
States
Courthouse’’.
S.
2734
Apr.
24,
2018
TI
EPW
May
23,
2018
............
0
July
16,
2018
June
7,
2018
July
27,
2018
221
To
amend
title
XIX
of
the
Social
Security
Act
to
delay
the
reduction
in
Federal
med-
ical
assistance
percentage
for
Medicaid
per-
sonal
care
services
furnished
without
an
electronic
visit
verification
system,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
6042
June
7,
2018
EC
Fin
............
............
June
19,
2018
July
17,
2018
July
30,
2018
222
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
4558
Broadway
in
New
York,
New
York,
as
the
‘‘Stanley
Michels
Post
Office
Building’’.
S.
2692
Apr.
18,
2018
HS&GA
..................
June
14,
2018
............
0
July
16,
2018
June
28,
2018
July
30,
2018
223
To
reauthorize
the
Carl
D.
Perkins
Career
and
Technical
Education
Act
of
2006.
H.R.
2353
May
4,
2017
E&W
HEL&P
June
7,
2017
164
............
June
22,
2017
July
23,
2018
July
31,
2018
224
To
extend
the
National
Flood
Insurance
Pro-
gram,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
1182
May
18,
2017
BHUA
..................
............
............
July
25,
2018
Aug.
3,
2017
July
31,
2018
225
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D413
April 11, 2019
To
include
New
Zealand
in
the
list
of
foreign
states
whose
nationals
are
eligible
for
ad-
mission
into
the
United
States
as
E-1
and
E-2
nonimmigrants
if
United
States
na-
tionals
are
treated
similarly
by
the
Govern-
ment
of
New
Zealand.
S.
2245
Dec.
18,
2017
Jud
Jud
............
............
July
23,
2018
June
28,
2018
Aug.
1,
2018
226
To
amend
the
White
Mountain
Apache
Tribe
Water
Rights
Quantification
Act
of
2010
to
clarify
the
use
of
amounts
in
the
WMAT
Settlement
Fund.
S.
2850
May
15,
2018
..................
..................
............
............
July
23,
2018
July
18,
2018
Aug.
1,
2018
227
To
make
technical
amendments
to
certain
marine
fish
conservation
statutes,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
4528
Dec.
1,
2017
NR
June
22,
2018
..................
775
............
June
25,
2018
July
26,
2018
Aug.
2,
2018
228
To
amend
the
Wild
and
Scenic
Rivers
Act
to
designate
certain
segments
of
East
Rosebud
Creek
in
Carbon
County,
Montana,
as
com-
ponents
of
the
Wild
and
Scenic
Rivers
Sys-
tem.
H.R.
4645
Dec.
14,
2017
NR
May
9,
2018
..................
666
............
July
17,
2018
July
25,
2018
Aug.
2,
2018
229
To
restrict
the
department
in
which
the
Coast
Guard
is
operating
from
imple-
menting
any
rule
requiring
the
use
of
bio-
metric
readers
for
biometric
transportation
security
cards
until
after
submission
to
Congress
of
the
results
of
an
assessment
of
the
effectiveness
of
the
transportation
secu-
rity
card
program.
H.R.
5729
May
9,
2018
TI
HS
June
27,
2018
..................
790
............
July
10,
2018
July
26,
2018
Aug.
2,
2018
230
To
amend
the
Zimbabwe
Democracy
and
Economic
Recovery
Act
of
2001.
S.
2779
Apr.
26,
2018
FR
..................
June
28,
2018
............
0
July
25,
2018
July
25,
2018
Aug.
8,
2018
231
To
authorize
appropriations
for
fiscal
year
2019
for
military
activities
of
the
Depart-
ment
of
Defense,
for
military
construction,
and
for
defense
activities
of
the
Depart-
ment
of
Energy,
to
prescribe
military
per-
sonnel
strengths
for
such
fiscal
year,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
5515
Apr.
13,
2018
AS
May
15,
2018
..................
676
............
May
24,
2018
June
18,
2018
Aug.
13,
2018
232
To
require
the
Federal
Communications
Com-
mission
to
study
the
feasibility
of
desig-
nating
a
simple,
easy-to-remember
dialing
code
to
be
used
for
a
national
suicide
pre-
vention
and
mental
health
crisis
hotline
system.
H.R.
2345
May
3,
2017
EC
July
18,
2018
..................
836
............
July
23,
2018
Aug.
1,
2018
Aug.
14,
2018
233
To
amend
the
Federal
Food,
Drug,
and
Cos-
metic
Act
to
reauthorize
user
fee
programs
relating
to
new
animal
drugs
and
generic
new
animal
drugs.
H.R.
5554
Apr.
18,
2018
EC
..................
............
............
July
16,
2018
July
31,
2018
Aug.
14,
2018
234
To
amend
title
23,
United
States
Code,
to
extend
the
deadline
for
promulgation
of
regulations
under
the
tribal
transportation
self-governance
program.
H.R.
6414
July
18,
2018
TI
..................
............
............
July
25,
2018
Aug.
1,
2018
Aug.
14,
2018
235
To
require
the
Director
of
the
National
Insti-
tute
of
Standards
and
Technology
to
dis-
seminate
guidance
to
help
reduce
small
business
cybersecurity
risks,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
770
Mar.
29,
2017
CST
..................
Sept.
11,
2017
............
153
July
25,
2018
Sept.
28,
2017
Aug.
14,
2018
236
To
promote
pro
bono
legal
services
as
a
crit-
ical
way
in
which
to
empower
survivors
of
domestic
violence.
S.
717
Mar.
23,
2017
Jud
Jud
............
............
July
17,
2018
Aug.
1,
2017
Sept.
4,
2018
237
To
amend
title
5,
United
States
Code,
to
en-
sure
that
the
requirements
that
new
Fed-
eral
employees
who
are
veterans
with
serv-
ice-connected
disabilities
are
provided
leave
for
purposes
of
undergoing
medical
treat-
ment
for
such
disabilities
apply
to
certain
employees
of
the
Veterans
Health
Admin-
istration.
S.
899
Apr.
7,
2017
VA
OGR
VA
............
............
July
16,
2018
Mar.
20,
2018
Sept.
7,
2018
238
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D414 April 11, 2019
Title
Bill
No.
Date
intro-
duced
Committee
Date
Reported
Report
No.
Date
of
passage
Public
Law
House
Senate
House
Senate
House
115–
Senate
115–
House
Senate
Date
ap-
proved
No.
115–
To
amend
the
Harmonized
Tariff
Schedule
of
the
United
States
to
modify
temporarily
certain
rates
of
duty.
H.R.
4318
Nov.
9,
2017
WM
Fin
............
............
Jan.
16,
2018
July
26,
2018
Sept.
13,
2018
239
To
require
the
Secretary
of
Veterans
Affairs
to
hire
additional
Veterans
Justice
Outreach
Specialists
to
provide
treatment
court
serv-
ices
to
justice-involved
veterans,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
2147
Apr.
26,
2017
VA
May
18,
2018
..................
682
............
June
13,
2018
Aug.
22,
2018
Sept.
17,
2018
240
To
amend
the
Public
Health
Service
Act
to
reauthorize
the
program
of
payments
to
children’s
hospitals
that
operate
graduate
medical
education
programs,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
5385
Mar.
22,
2018
EC
..................
............
............
July
23,
2018
Sept.
4,
2018
Sept.
18,
2018
241
To
designate
the
J.
Marvin
Jones
Federal
Building
and
Courthouse
in
Amarillo,
Texas,
as
the
‘‘J.
Marvin
Jones
Federal
Building
and
Mary
Lou
Robinson
United
States
Courthouse’’.
H.R.
5772
May
10,
2018
TI
EPW
July
16,
2018
Aug.
1,
2018
819
0
July
16,
2018
Sept.
4,
2018
Sept.
18,
2018
242
To
amend
title
II
of
the
Social
Security
Act
to
authorize
voluntary
agreements
for
cov-
erage
of
Indian
tribal
council
members,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
6124
June
15,
2018
WM
June
29,
2018
..................
801
............
July
24,
2018
Sept.
6,
2018
Sept.
20,
2018
243
Making
consolidated
appropriations
for
En-
ergy
and
Water
Development,
the
Legisla-
tive
Branch,
Military
Construction,
Vet-
erans
Affairs,
and
Related
Agencies
for
the
fiscal
year
ending
September
30,
2019,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
5895
May
21,
2018
App
May
21,
2018
..................
697
............
June
8,
2018
June
25,
2018
Sept.
21,
2018
244
Making
consolidated
appropriations
for
the
Departments
of
Defense,
Labor,
Health
and
Human
Services,
and
Education,
and
Re-
lated
Agencies
for
the
fiscal
year
ending
September
30,
2019,
and
for
other
pur-
poses.
H.R.
6157
June
20,
2018
App
June
20,
2018
..................
769
............
June
28,
2018
Aug.
23,
2018
Sept.
28,
2018
245
To
establish
Department
of
Energy
policy
for
science
and
energy
research
and
develop-
ment
programs,
and
reform
National
Lab-
oratory
management
and
technology
trans-
fer
programs,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
589
Jan.
20,
2017
SST
ENR
May
9,
2018
............
242
Jan.
24,
2017
July
23,
2018
Sept.
28,
2018
246
To
amend
section
203
of
the
Federal
Power
Act.
H.R.
1109
Feb.
16,
2017
EC
ENR
June
12,
2017
May
21,
2018
167
253
June
12,
2017
Sept.
4,
2018
Sept.
28,
2018
247
To
enable
civilian
research
and
development
of
advanced
nuclear
energy
technologies
by
private
and
public
institutions,
to
expand
theoretical
and
practical
knowledge
of
nu-
clear
physics,
chemistry,
and
materials
science,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
97
Jan.
11,
2017
ENR
..................
June
21,
2017
............
115
Sept.
13,
2018
Mar.
7,
2018
Sept.
28,
2018
248
To
amend
title
18,
United
States
Code,
to
provide
for
the
protection
of
community
centers
with
religious
affiliation,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
994
May
1,
2017
Jud
..................
Apr.
26,
2018
............
325
Sept.
7,
2018
Sept.
4,
2018
Sept.
28,
2018
249
To
extend
the
authorizations
of
Federal
avia-
tion
programs,
to
extend
the
funding
and
expenditure
authority
of
the
Airport
and
Airway
Trust
Fund,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
6897
Sept.
26,
2018
TI
WM
..................
............
............
Sept.
26,
2018
Sept.
28,
2018
Sept.
29,
2018
250
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D415
April 11, 2019
To
amend
title
38,
United
States
Code,
to
extend
certain
expiring
provisions
of
law
administered
by
the
Secretary
of
Veterans
Affairs,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
3479
Sept.
18,
2018
..................
..................
............
............
Sept.
25,
2018
Sept.
18,
2018
Sept.
29,
2018
251
To
require
a
land
conveyance
involving
the
Elkhorn
Ranch
and
the
White
River
Na-
tional
Forest
in
the
State
of
Colorado,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
698
Jan.
24,
2017
NR
ENR
May
16,
2017
............
69
Feb.
6,
2017
Sept.
18,
2018
Oct.
3,
2018
252
To
amend
title
18,
United
States
Code,
to
clarify
the
meaning
of
the
terms
‘‘act
of
war’’
and
‘‘blocked
asset’’,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
2946
May
24,
2018
Jud
..................
July
12,
2018
............
0
Sept.
13,
2018
Aug.
22,
2018
Oct.
3,
2018
253
To
provide
protections
for
certain
sports
med-
icine
professionals,
to
reauthorize
Federal
aviation
programs,
to
improve
aircraft
safe-
ty
certification
processes,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
302
Jan.
5,
2017
EC
HEL&P
............
............
Jan.
9,
2017
Sept.
6,
2018
Oct.
5,
2018
254
To
authorize
the
Secretary
of
the
Interior
to
conduct
a
special
resource
study
of
Fort
Ontario
in
the
State
of
New
York.
H.R.
46
Jan.
3,
2017
NR
ENR
June
14,
2017
............
110
Jan.
30,
2017
Sept.
18,
2018
Oct.
9,
2018
255
To
amend
the
Peace
Corps
Act
to
expand
services
and
benefits
for
volunteers,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
2259
May
1,
2017
FA
OGR
E&W
..................
............
............
July
10,
2018
Sept.
24,
2018
Oct.
9,
2018
256
To
amend
the
DNA
Analysis
Backlog
Elimi-
nation
Act
of
2000
to
provide
additional
resources
to
State
and
local
prosecutors,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
4854
Jan.
19,
2018
Jud
..................
............
............
May
15,
2018
Sept.
26,
2018
Oct.
9,
2018
257
To
increase,
effective
as
of
December
1,
2018,
the
rates
of
compensation
for
veterans
with
service-connected
disabilities
and
the
rates
of
dependency
and
indemnity
compensa-
tion
for
the
survivors
of
certain
disabled
veterans,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
4958
Feb.
7,
2018
VA
VA
May
18,
2018
688
............
May
21,
2018
Sept.
25,
2018
Oct.
9,
2018
258
To
amend
the
Small
Business
Act
to
expand
intellectual
property
education
and
training
for
small
businesses,
and
for
other
pur-
poses.
S.
791
Mar.
30,
2017
SBE
..................
Mar.
19,
2018
............
435
Sept.
25,
2018
July
18,
2018
Oct.
9,
2018
259
To
rename
a
waterway
in
the
State
of
New
York
as
the
‘‘Joseph
Sanford
Jr.
Channel’’.
S.
1668
July
27,
2017
TI
CST
Apr.
9,
2018
............
221
Sept.
26,
2018
Aug.
1,
2018
Oct.
9,
2018
260
To
amend
title
17,
United
States
Code,
to
implement
the
Marrakesh
Treaty,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
2559
Mar.
15,
2018
Jud
Jud
May
15,
2018
............
261
Sept.
25,
2018
June
28,
2018
Oct.
9,
2018
261
To
amend
title
XVIII
of
the
Social
Security
Act
to
prohibit
Medicare
part
D
plans
from
restricting
pharmacies
from
informing
individuals
regarding
the
prices
for
certain
drugs
and
biologicals.
S.
2553
Mar.
14,
2018
EC
WM
Fin
............
............
Sept.
25,
2018
Sept.
4,
2018
Oct.
10,
2018
262
To
ensure
that
health
insurance
issuers
and
group
health
plans
do
not
prohibit
phar-
macy
providers
from
providing
certain
in-
formation
to
enrollees.
S.
2554
Mar.
14,
2018
HEL&P
..................
July
31,
2018
............
0
Sept.
25,
2018
Sept.
17,
2018
Oct.
10,
2018
263
To
modernize
copyright
law,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
1551
Mar.
15,
2017
WM
June
20,
2017
..................
183
............
June
20,
2017
Sept.
18,
2018
Oct.
11,
2018
264
To
reauthorize
and
amend
the
Marine
Debris
Act
to
promote
international
action
to
re-
duce
marine
debris,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
3508
Sept.
26,
2018
..................
..................
............
............
Sept.
27,
2018
Sept.
26,
2018
Oct.
11,
2018
265
To
reauthorize
the
Global
Food
Security
Act
of
2016
for
5
additional
years.
S.
2269
Dec.
21,
2017
FR
..................
May
22,
2018
............
0
Sept.
28,
2018
June
19,
2018
Oct.
11,
2018
266
To
amend
the
Missing
Children’s
Assistance
Act,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
3354
Aug.
16,
2018
Jud
..................
Sept.
18,
2018
............
0
Sept.
28,
2018
Sept.
27,
2018
Oct.
11,
2018
267
To
reauthorize
the
Congressional
Award
Act.
S.
3509
Sept.
26,
2018
..................
..................
............
............
Sept.
28,
2018
Sept.
26,
2018
Oct.
11,
2018
268
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D416 April 11, 2019
Title
Bill
No.
Date
intro-
duced
Committee
Date
Reported
Report
No.
Date
of
passage
Public
Law
House
Senate
House
Senate
House
115–
Senate
115–
House
Senate
Date
ap-
proved
No.
115–
To
require
the
Surface
Transportation
Board
to
implement
certain
recommendations
of
the
Inspector
General
of
the
Department
of
Transportation.
H.R.
4921
Feb.
5,
2018
TI
CST
Apr.
5,
2018
622
............
Apr.
10,
2018
Oct.
1,
2018
Oct.
16,
2018
269
To
provide
for
improvements
to
the
rivers
and
harbors
of
the
United
States,
to
pro-
vide
for
the
conservation
and
development
of
water
and
related
resources,
to
provide
for
water
pollution
control
activities,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
3021
June
7,
2018
TI
EPW
Aug.
1,
2018
............
0
Sept.
13,
2018
Sept.
4,
2018
Oct.
23,
2018
270
To
provide
for
opioid
use
disorder
prevention,
recovery,
and
treatment,
and
for
other
pur-
poses.
H.R.
6
June
13,
2018
EC
WM
Jud
..................
............
............
June
22,
2018
Sept.
17,
2018
Oct.
24,
2018
271
To
amend
the
Hizballah
International
Financ-
ing
Prevention
Act
of
2015
to
impose
ad-
ditional
sanctions
with
respect
to
Hizballah,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
1595
July
20,
2017
FA
Jud
FS
BHUA
............
............
Sept.
25,
2018
Oct.
5,
2017
Oct.
25,
2018
272
To
direct
the
Under
Secretary
of
Commerce
for
Intellectual
Property
and
Director
of
the
United
States
Patent
and
Trademark
Office,
in
consultation
with
the
Adminis-
trator
of
the
Small
Business
Administra-
tion,
to
study
and
provide
recommenda-
tions
to
promote
the
participation
of
women,
minorities,
and
veterans
in
entre-
preneurship
activities
and
the
patent
sys-
tem,
to
extend
by
8
years
the
Patent
and
Trademark
Office’s
authority
to
set
the
amounts
for
the
fees
it
charges,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
6758
Sept.
10,
2018
Jud
Sept.
25,
2018
..................
966
............
Sept.
25,
2018
Oct.
11,
2018
Oct.
31,
2018
273
To
provide
for
the
continued
performance
of
the
functions
of
the
United
States
Parole
Commission,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
6896
Sept.
26,
2018
Jud
Jud
............
............
Sept.
28,
2018
Oct.
11,
2018
Oct.
31,
2018
274
To
authorize
the
National
Emergency
Med-
ical
Services
Memorial
Foundation
to
estab-
lish
a
commemorative
work
in
the
District
of
Columbia
and
its
environs,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
1037
Feb.
14,
2017
NR
May
11,
2018
..................
669
............
July
18,
2018
Oct.
11,
2018
Nov.
3,
2018
275
To
provide
that
members
of
public
safety
agencies
who
died
of
9/11-related
health
conditions
are
eligible
for
the
Presidential
9/11
Heroes
Medal
of
Valor,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
3834
Sept.
26,
2017
FS
BHUA
............
............
Sept.
26,
2018
Oct.
11,
2018
Nov.
3,
2018
276
To
rename
the
Stop
Trading
on
Congressional
Knowledge
Act
of
2012
in
honor
of
Rep-
resentative
Louise
McIntosh
Slaughter.
H.R.
6870
Sept.
25,
2018
OGR
FS
Agr
HA
Jud
HS&GA
............
............
Sept.
28,
2018
Oct.
11,
2018
Nov.
3,
2018
277
To
amend
the
Homeland
Security
Act
of
2002
to
authorize
the
Cybersecurity
and
Infrastructure
Security
Agency
of
the
De-
partment
of
Homeland
Security,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
3359
July
24,
2017
HS
EC
OGR
TI
HS&GA
Dec.
11,
2017
454
............
Dec.
11,
2017
Oct.
3,
2018
Nov.
16,
2018
278
To
authorize
the
exchange
of
certain
land
lo-
cated
in
Gulf
Islands
National
Seashore,
Jackson
County,
Mississippi,
between
the
National
Park
Service
and
the
Veterans
of
Foreign
Wars,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
2615
May
23,
2017
NR
ENR
Sept.
11,
2017
Apr.
11,
2018
302
228
Nov.
28,
2017
Oct.
11,
2018
Nov.
20,
2018
279
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D417
April 11, 2019
To
extend
the
effective
date
for
the
sunset
for
collateral
requirements
for
Small
Business
Administration
disaster
loans.
S.
3554
Oct.
5,
2018
SBE
..................
Oct.
11,
2018
............
453
Nov.
16,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Nov.
29,
2018
280
To
extend
the
National
Flood
Insurance
Pro-
gram
until
December
7,
2018.
H.R.
7187
Nov.
29,
2018
FS
..................
............
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
1,
2018
281
To
authorize
appropriations
for
the
Coast
Guard,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
140
Jan.
12,
2017
NR
IA
Dec.
6,
2017
Mar.
21,
2017
441
7
Jan.
10,
2018
May
8,
2017
Dec.
4,
2018
282
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
1025
Nevin
Ave-
nue
in
Richmond,
California,
as
the
‘‘Har-
old
D.
McCraw,
Sr.,
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
606
Jan.
23,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
Sept.
13,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
283
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
901
N.
Francisco
Avenue,
Mission,
Texas,
as
the
‘‘Mission
Veterans
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
1209
Feb.
21,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
Mar.
5,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
284
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
390
West
5th
Street
in
San
Bernardino,
California,
as
the
‘‘Jack
H.
Brown
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
2979
June
21,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
July
16,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
285
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
915
Center
Ave-
nue
in
Payette,
Idaho,
as
the
‘‘Harmon
Killebrew
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
3230
July
13,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
July
16,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
286
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
9801
Apollo
Drive
in
Upper
Marlboro,
Maryland,
as
the
‘‘Wayne
K.
Curry
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
4890
Jan.
29,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
July
16,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
287
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
816
East
Salisbury
Parkway
in
Salisbury,
Maryland,
as
the
‘‘Sgt.
Maj.
Wardell
B.
Turner
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
4913
Feb.
2,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
Sept.
13,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
288
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
1075
North
Tustin
Street
in
Orange,
California,
as
the
‘‘Specialist
Trevor
A.
Win’E
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
4946
Feb.
6,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
July
16,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
289
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
511
East
Walnut
Street
in
Columbia,
Missouri,
as
the
‘‘Spc.
Sterling
William
Wyatt
Post
Office
Build-
ing’’.
H.R.
4960
Feb.
7,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
July
16,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
290
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
1320
Autumn
Av-
enue
in
Memphis,
Tennessee,
as
the
‘‘Judge
Russell
B.
Sugarmon
Post
Office
Build-
ing’’.
H.R.
5349
Mar.
20,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
Sept.
13,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
291
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
4801
West
Van
Giesen
Street
in
West
Richland,
Wash-
ington,
as
the
‘‘Sergeant
Dietrich
Schmieman
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
5504
Apr.
13,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
July
16,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
292
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
108
West
D
Street
in
Alpha,
Illinois,
as
the
‘‘Captain
Joshua
E.
Steele
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
5737
May
9,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
Sept.
13,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
293
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
2650
North
Doc-
tor
Martin
Luther
King
Jr.
Drive
in
Mil-
waukee,
Wisconsin,
shall
be
known
and
designated
as
the
‘‘Vel
R.
Phillips
Post
Of-
fice
Building’’.
H.R.
5784
May
11,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
Sept.
13,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
294
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
530
Claremont
Avenue
in
Ashland,
Ohio,
as
the
‘‘Bill
Harris
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
5868
May
17,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
Sept.
13,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
295
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D418 April 11, 2019
Title
Bill
No.
Date
intro-
duced
Committee
Date
Reported
Report
No.
Date
of
passage
Public
Law
House
Senate
House
Senate
House
115–
Senate
115–
House
Senate
Date
ap-
proved
No.
115–
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
1355
North
Me-
ridian
Road
in
Harristown,
Illinois,
as
the
‘‘Logan
S.
Palmer
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
5935
May
23,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
Sept.
13,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
296
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
362
North
Ross
Street
in
Beaverton,
Michigan,
as
the
‘‘Colonel
Alfred
Asch
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
6116
June
14,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
Sept.
13,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
297
Making
further
continuing
appropriations
for
fiscal
year
2019,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.J.
Res.
143
Dec.
3,
2018
App
..................
............
............
Dec.
6,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
Dec.
7,
2018
298
To
amend
title
18,
United
States
Code,
to
provide
for
assistance
for
victims
of
child
pornography,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
2152
Nov.
16,
2017
Jud
Jud
Jan.
16,
2018
............
0
Sept.
28,
2018
Jan.
23,
2018
Dec.
7,
2018
299
To
provide
relief
for
victims
of
genocide,
crimes
against
humanity,
and
war
crimes
who
are
members
of
religious
and
ethnic
minority
groups
in
Iraq
and
Syria,
for
ac-
countability
for
perpetrators
of
these
crimes,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
390
Jan.
10,
2017
FA
Jud
FR
Sept.
19,
2017
............
0
June
6,
2017
Oct.
11,
2018
Dec.
11,
2018
300
To
repeal
the
Act
entitled
‘‘An
Act
to
confer
jurisdiction
on
the
State
of
Iowa
over
of-
fenses
committed
by
or
against
Indians
on
the
Sac
and
Fox
Indian
Reservation’’.
H.R.
1074
Feb.
15,
2017
NR
IA
Aug.
29,
2017
279
............
Nov.
1,
2017
Nov.
27,
2018
Dec.
11,
2018
301
To
amend
the
Public
Health
Service
Act
to
improve
essential
oral
health
care
for
low-
income
and
other
underserved
individuals
by
breaking
down
barriers
to
care,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
2422
May
15,
2017
EC
HEL&P
Sept.
25,
2017
328
............
Feb.
26,
2018
Oct.
11,
2018
Dec.
11,
2018
302
To
amend
the
National
Science
Foundation
Authorization
Act
of
2002
to
strengthen
the
aerospace
workforce
pipeline
by
the
promotion
of
Robert
Noyce
Teacher
Schol-
arship
Program
and
National
Aeronautics
and
Space
Administration
internship
and
fellowship
opportunities
to
women,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
4254
Nov.
6,
2017
SST
CST
Dec.
18,
2017
Aug.
16,
2018
472
0
Dec.
19,
2017
Sept.
27,
2018
Dec.
11,
2018
303
To
repeal
section
2141
of
the
Revised
Stat-
utes
to
remove
the
prohibition
on
certain
alcohol
manufacturing
on
Indian
lands.
H.R.
5317
Mar.
15,
2018
NR
IA
May
24,
2018
Nov.
14,
2018
703
363
Sept.
12,
2018
Nov.
27,
2018
Dec.
11,
2018
304
To
extend
certain
authorities
relating
to
United
States
efforts
to
combat
HIV/AIDS,
tuberculosis,
and
malaria
globally,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
6651
Aug.
3,
2018
FA
Nov.
9,
2018
..................
1014
............
Nov.
13,
2018
Nov.
28,
2018
Dec.
11,
2018
305
To
establish
a
procedure
for
the
conveyance
of
certain
Federal
property
around
the
Dick-
inson
Reservoir
in
the
State
of
North
Da-
kota.
S.
440
Feb.
17,
2017
ENR
..................
July
30,
2018
............
313
Nov.
13,
2018
Oct.
4,
2018
Dec.
11,
2018
306
To
reauthorize
and
amend
the
National
Earthquake
Hazards
Reduction
Program,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
1768
Sept.
6,
2017
SST
NR
TI
CST
Sept.
6,
2018
............
336
Nov.
27,
2018
Sept.
27,
2018
Dec.
11,
2018
307
To
establish
a
procedure
for
the
conveyance
of
certain
Federal
property
around
the
James-
town
Reservoir
in
the
State
of
North
Da-
kota,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
2074
Nov.
2,
2017
ENR
..................
July
30,
2018
............
314
Nov.
13,
2018
Oct.
4,
2018
Dec.
11,
2018
308
To
redesignate
a
facility
of
the
National
Aer-
onautics
and
Space
Administration.
S.
3389
Aug.
27,
2018
SST
CST
............
............
Nov.
27,
2018
Sept.
25,
2018
Dec.
11,
2018
309
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D419
April 11, 2019
To
award
the
Congressional
Gold
Medal
to
Anwar
Sadat
in
recognition
of
his
heroic
achievements
and
courageous
contributions
to
peace
in
the
Middle
East.
H.R.
754
Jan.
31,
2017
FS
..................
............
............
Sept.
26,
2018
Dec.
4,
2018
Dec.
13,
2018
310
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
306
River
Street
in
Tilden,
Texas,
as
the
‘‘Tilden
Veterans
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
1207
Feb.
21,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Feb.
15,
2018
............
0
Nov.
15,
2017
Mar.
7,
2018
Dec.
13,
2018
311
To
designate
the
Federal
building
and
United
States
courthouse
located
at
200
West
2nd
Street
in
Dayton,
Ohio,
as
the
‘‘Walter
H.
Rice
Federal
Building
and
United
States
Courthouse’’.
S.
2377
Feb.
6,
2018
TI
EPW
May
23,
2018
............
0
Nov.
30,
2018
June
7,
2018
Dec.
13,
2018
312
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
20
Ferry
Road
in
Saunderstown,
Rhode
Island,
as
the
‘‘Cap-
tain
Matthew
J.
August
Post
Office’’.
S.
3414
Sept.
6,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
Nov.
29,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
13,
2018
313
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
105
Duff
Street
in
Macon,
Missouri,
as
the
‘‘Arla
W.
Harrell
Post
Office’’.
S.
3442
Sept.
17,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
Nov.
29,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
13,
2018
314
To
name
the
Department
of
Veterans
Affairs
community-based
outpatient
clinic
in
Statesboro,
Georgia,
the
Ray
Hendrix
De-
partment
of
Veterans
Affairs
Clinic.
H.R.
3946
Oct.
4,
2017
VA
VA
............
............
May
21,
2018
Nov.
27,
2018
Dec.
14,
2018
315
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
3s101
Rockwell
Street
in
Warrenville,
Illinois,
as
the
‘‘Cor-
poral
Jeffrey
Allen
Williams
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
4407
Nov.
15,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
July
16,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
14,
2018
316
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
1234
Saint
Johns
Place
in
Brooklyn,
New
York,
as
the
‘‘Major
Robert
Odell
Owens
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
5238
Mar.
9,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
............
............
July
16,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
Dec.
14,
2018
317
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
413
Washington
Avenue
in
Belleville,
New
Jersey,
as
the
‘‘Private
Henry
Svehla
Post
Office
Build-
ing’’.
S.
3209
July
12,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
Dec.
11,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
14,
2018
318
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
120
12th
Street
Lobby
in
Columbus,
Georgia,
as
the
‘‘Richard
W.
Williams,
Jr.,
Chapter
of
the
Triple
Nickles
(555th
P.I.A.)
Post
Office’’.
S.
3237
July
18,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
28,
2018
............
0
Dec.
11,
2018
Nov.
15,
2018
Dec.
14,
2018
319
To
amend
the
Public
Health
Service
Act
to
distribute
maternity
care
health
profes-
sionals
to
health
professional
shortage
areas
identified
as
in
need
of
maternity
care
health
services.
H.R.
315
Jan.
5,
2017
EC
HEL&P
Nov.
29,
2018
............
0
Jan.
9,
2017
Dec.
6,
2018
Dec.
17,
2018
320
To
amend
the
National
Law
Enforcement
Museum
Act
to
allow
the
Museum
to
ac-
quire,
receive,
possess,
collect,
ship,
trans-
port,
import,
and
display
firearms,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
1417
Mar.
7,
2017
NR
Jud
Feb.
8,
2018
548
............
May
15,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
Dec.
17,
2018
321
To
award
a
Congressional
Gold
Medal
in
honor
of
Lawrence
Eugene
‘‘Larry’’
Doby
in
recognition
of
his
achievements
and
con-
tributions
to
American
major
league
ath-
letics,
civil
rights,
and
the
Armed
Forces
during
World
War
II.
H.R.
1861
Apr.
3,
2017
FS
..................
............
............
July
10,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
Dec.
17,
2018
322
To
amend
the
Real
ID
Act
of
2005
to
permit
Freely
Associated
States
to
meet
identifica-
tion
requirements
under
such
Act,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
3398
July
25,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Sept.
12,
2018
945
............
Sept.
26,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
Dec.
17,
2018
323
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D420 April 11, 2019
Title
Bill
No.
Date
intro-
duced
Committee
Date
Reported
Report
No.
Date
of
passage
Public
Law
House
Senate
House
Senate
House
115–
Senate
115–
House
Senate
Date
ap-
proved
No.
115–
To
amend
the
Small
Business
Act
to
modify
the
method
for
prescribing
size
standards
for
business
concerns.
H.R.
6330
July
11,
2018
SB
SBE
Sept.
12,
2018
939
............
Sept.
25,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
Dec.
17,
2018
324
To
amend
the
Indian
Tribal
Energy
Develop-
ment
and
Self
Determination
Act
of
2005,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
245
Jan.
30,
2017
NR
EC
IA
Nov.
30,
2018
May
24,
2017
1057
84
Dec.
10,
2018
Nov.
29,
2017
Dec.
18,
2018
325
To
provide
for
the
conveyance
of
certain
property
to
the
Southeast
Alaska
Regional
Health
Consortium
located
in
Sitka,
Alas-
ka,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
825
Apr.
4,
2017
EC
NR
IA
Apr.
5,
2018
Oct.
17,
2017
619
173
Dec.
11,
2018
Nov.
29,
2017
Dec.
18,
2018
326
To
amend
the
Public
Health
Service
Act
to
reauthorize
a
sickle
cell
disease
prevention
and
treatment
demonstration
program
and
to
provide
for
sickle
cell
disease
research,
surveillance,
prevention,
and
treatment.
S.
2465
Feb.
28,
2018
HEL&P
..................
Aug.
15,
2018
............
0
Dec.
11,
2018
Oct.
11,
2018
Dec.
18,
2018
327
To
revise
and
extend
the
Prematurity
Re-
search
Expansion
and
Education
for
Moth-
ers
who
deliver
Infants
Early
Act
(PREEMIE
Act).
S.
3029
June
7,
2018
EC
HEL&P
July
9,
2018
............
0
Dec.
11,
2018
Sept.
12,
2018
Dec.
18,
2018
328
To
allow
for
the
taking
of
sea
lions
on
the
Columbia
River
and
its
tributaries
to
pro-
tect
endangered
and
threatened
species
of
salmon
and
other
nonlisted
fish
species.
S.
3119
June
21,
2018
CST
..................
Nov.
29,
2018
............
400
Dec.
11,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
Dec.
18,
2018
329
To
promote
access
for
United
States
dip-
lomats
and
other
officials,
journalists,
and
other
citizens
to
Tibetan
areas
of
the
Peo-
ple’s
Republic
of
China,
and
for
other
pur-
poses.
H.R.
1872
Apr.
4,
2017
Jud
FA
FR
Nov.
29,
2018
............
0
Sept.
25,
2018
Dec.
11,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
330
To
direct
the
Secretary
of
Homeland
Security
to
establish
a
data
framework
to
provide
access
for
appropriate
personnel
to
law
en-
forcement
and
other
information
of
the
De-
partment,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
2454
May
16,
2017
HS
HS&GA
............
............
Sept.
12,
2017
Dec.
6,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
331
To
amend
title
28,
United
States
Code,
to
permit
other
courts
to
transfer
certain
cases
to
United
States
Tax
Court.
H.R.
3996
Oct.
10,
2017
Jud
Jud
Mar.
14,
2018
598
............
Mar.
14,
2018
Dec.
11,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
332
To
amend
the
Small
Business
Investment
Act
of
1958
to
improve
the
number
of
small
business
investment
companies
in
under-
licensed
States,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
4111
Oct.
24,
2017
SB
..................
............
............
May
8,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
333
To
provide
for
the
reform
and
continuation
of
agricultural
and
other
programs
of
the
De-
partment
of
Agriculture
through
fiscal
year
2023,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
2
Apr.
12,
2018
Agr
May
3,
2018
..................
661
............
June
21,
2018
June
28,
2018
Dec.
20,
2018
334
To
oppose
loans
at
international
financial
in-
stitutions
for
the
Government
of
Nicaragua
unless
the
Government
of
Nicaragua
is
taking
effective
steps
to
hold
free,
fair,
and
transparent
elections,
and
for
other
pur-
poses.
H.R.
1918
Apr.
5,
2017
FA
FS
FR
............
............
Oct.
3,
2017
Nov.
27,
2018
Dec.
20,
2018
335
To
improve
executive
agency
digital
services,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
5759
May
10,
2018
OGR
Nov.
29,
2018
..................
1055
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
11,
2018
Dec.
20,
2018
336
To
award
a
Congressional
Gold
Medal,
collec-
tively,
to
the
Chinese-American
Veterans
of
World
War
II,
in
recognition
of
their
dedicated
service
during
World
War
II.
S.
1050
May
4,
2017
FS
HA
BHUA
............
............
Dec.
12,
2018
Sept.
12,
2018
Dec.
20,
2018
337
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D421
April 11, 2019
To
award
a
Congressional
Gold
Medal,
collec-
tively,
to
the
crew
of
the
USS
Indianapolis,
in
recognition
of
their
perseverance,
brav-
ery,
and
service
to
the
United
States.
S.
2101
Nov.
8,
2017
FS
BHUA
............
............
Dec.
12,
2018
Aug.
1,
2018
Dec.
20,
2018
338
To
direct
the
Secretary
of
Veterans
Affairs
to
carry
out
a
pilot
program
to
provide
access
to
magnetic
EEG/EKG-guided
resonance
therapy
to
veterans.
H.R.
1162
Feb.
16,
2017
VA
VA
May
23,
2017
147
............
May
23,
2017
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
339
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
122
W.
Goodwin
Street,
Pleasanton,
Texas,
as
the
‘‘Pleasanton
Veterans
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
1210
Feb.
21,
2017
OGR
..................
............
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
340
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
400
N.
Main
Street,
Encinal,
Texas,
as
the
‘‘Encinal
Vet-
erans
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
1211
Feb.
21,
2017
OGR
..................
............
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
341
To
amend
the
Public
Health
Service
Act
to
coordinate
Federal
congenital
heart
disease
research
efforts
and
to
improve
public
edu-
cation
and
awareness
of
congenital
heart
disease,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
1222
Feb.
27,
2017
EC
HEL&P
Sept.
25,
2017
Aug.
15,
2018
329
0
Feb.
26,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
342
To
require
the
Secretary
of
the
Treasury
to
mint
coins
in
recognition
of
the
60th
An-
niversary
of
the
Naismith
Memorial
Bas-
ketball
Hall
of
Fame.
H.R.
1235
Feb.
27,
2017
FS
BHUA
............
............
Sept.
25,
2017
Dec.
18,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
343
To
support
States
in
their
work
to
save
and
sustain
the
health
of
mothers
during
preg-
nancy,
childbirth,
and
in
the
postpartum
period,
to
eliminate
disparities
in
maternal
health
outcomes
for
pregnancy-related
and
pregnancy-associated
deaths,
to
identify
so-
lutions
to
improve
health
care
quality
and
health
outcomes
for
mothers,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
1318
Mar.
2,
2017
EC
..................
............
............
Dec.
11,
2018
Dec.
13,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
344
To
direct
the
Secretary
of
Energy
to
review
and
update
a
report
on
the
energy
and
en-
vironmental
benefits
of
the
re-refining
of
used
lubricating
oil.
H.R.
1733
Mar.
27,
2017
EC
ENR
Dec.
11,
2017
457
............
Dec.
12,
2017
Dec.
20,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
345
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
907
Fourth
Ave-
nue
in
Lake
Odessa,
Michigan,
as
the
‘‘Donna
Sauers
Besko
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
1850
Apr.
3,
2017
OGR
..................
............
............
Dec.
11,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
346
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
180
McCormick
Road
in
Charlottesville,
Virginia,
as
the
‘‘Captain
Humayun
Khan
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
3184
July
11,
2017
OGR
..................
............
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
347
To
impose
sanctions
with
respect
to
foreign
persons
that
are
responsible
for
using
civil-
ians
as
human
shields,
and
for
other
pur-
poses.
H.R.
3342
July
20,
2017
FA
Jud
FR
Oct.
24,
2017
367
............
Oct.
25,
2017
Oct.
11,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
348
To
designate
the
flood
control
project
in
Sedgwick
County,
Kansas,
commonly
known
as
the
Wichita-Valley
Center
Flood
Control
Project,
as
the
‘‘M.S.
‘Mitch’
Mitchell
Floodway’’.
H.R.
3383
July
25,
2017
TI
EPW
............
............
Sept.
26,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
349
To
confirm
undocumented
Federal
rights-of-
way
or
easements
on
the
Gila
River
Indian
Reservation,
clarify
the
northern
boundary
of
the
Gila
River
Indian
Community’s
Res-
ervation,
to
take
certain
land
located
in
Maricopa
County
and
Pinal
County,
Ari-
zona,
into
trust
for
the
benefit
of
the
Gila
River
Indian
Community,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
4032
Oct.
12,
2017
NR
IA
July
13,
2018
Nov.
29,
2018
817
399
July
17,
2018
Dec.
13,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
350
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D422 April 11, 2019
Title
Bill
No.
Date
intro-
duced
Committee
Date
Reported
Report
No.
Date
of
passage
Public
Law
House
Senate
House
Senate
House
115–
Senate
115–
House
Senate
Date
ap-
proved
No.
115–
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
200
West
North
Street
in
Normal,
Illinois,
as
the
‘‘Sgt.
Josh
Rodgers
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
4326
Nov.
9,
2017
OGR
..................
............
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
351
To
amend
title
5,
United
States
Code,
to
pro-
vide
for
interest
payments
by
agencies
in
the
case
of
administrative
error
in
proc-
essing
certain
annuity
deposits
for
prior
military
service
or
certain
volunteer
service,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
4431
Nov.
16,
2017
OGR
HA
HS&GA
Sept.
12,
2018
946
............
Sept.
26,
2018
Dec.
13,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
352
To
promote
inclusive
economic
growth
through
conservation
and
biodiversity
pro-
grams
that
facilitate
transboundary
co-
operation,
improve
natural
resource
man-
agement,
and
build
local
capacity
to
pro-
tect
and
preserve
threatened
wildlife
spe-
cies
in
the
greater
Okavango
River
Basin
of
southern
Africa.
H.R.
4819
Jan.
18,
2018
FA
FR
Nov.
29,
2018
............
0
July
17,
2018
Dec.
20,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
353
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
701
6th
Street
in
Hawthorne,
Nevada,
as
the
‘‘Sergeant
Ken-
neth
Eric
Bostic
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
5205
Mar.
7,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Dec.
11,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
354
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
116
Main
Street
in
Dansville,
New
York,
as
the
‘‘Staff
Ser-
geant
Alexandria
Gleason-Morrow
Post
Of-
fice
Building’’.
H.R.
5395
Mar.
22,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
355
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
25
2nd
Avenue
in
Brentwood,
New
York,
as
the
‘‘Army
Spe-
cialist
Jose
L.
Ruiz
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
5412
Mar.
26,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
356
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
108
North
Macon
Street
in
Bevier,
Missouri,
as
the
‘‘SO2
Navy
SEAL
Adam
Olin
Smith
Post
Of-
fice’’.
H.R.
5475
Apr.
11,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Dec.
11,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
357
To
amend
the
Coastal
Barrier
Resources
Act
to
give
effect
to
more
accurate
maps
of
units
of
the
John
H.
Chafee
Coastal
Barrier
Resources
System
that
were
produced
by
digital
mapping
of
such
units,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
5787
May
15,
2018
NR
EPW
Oct.
30,
2018
997
............
Nov.
16,
2018
Dec.
20,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
358
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
9609
South
Uni-
versity
Boulevard
in
Highlands
Ranch,
Colorado,
as
the
‘‘Deputy
Sheriff
Zackari
Spurlock
Parrish,
III,
Post
Office
Build-
ing’’.
H.R.
5791
May
15,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
............
............
Sept.
28,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
359
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
90
North
4th
Av-
enue
in
Brighton,
Colorado,
as
the
‘‘Detec-
tive
Heath
McDonald
Gumm
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
5792
May
15,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
............
............
Sept.
28,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
360
To
direct
the
Secretary
of
Agriculture
to
ex-
change
certain
public
lands
in
Ouachita
National
Forest,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
5923
May
22,
2018
NR
ANF
Sept.
7,
2018
922
............
Sept.
12,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
361
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D423
April 11, 2019
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
325
South
Michi-
gan
Avenue
in
Howell,
Michigan,
as
the
‘‘Sergeant
Donald
Burgett
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
6020
June
6,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
............
............
Sept.
13,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
362
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
51
Willow
Street
in
Lynn,
Massachusetts,
as
the
‘‘Thomas
P.
Costin,
Jr.
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
6059
June
8,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Dec.
11,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
363
To
amend
title
5,
United
States
Code,
to
clarify
the
sources
of
the
authority
to
issue
regulations
regarding
certifications
and
other
criteria
applicable
to
legislative
branch
employees
under
Wounded
War-
riors
Federal
Leave
Act.
H.R.
6160
June
20,
2018
HA
OGR
HS&GA
............
............
June
28,
2018
Dec.
13,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
364
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
5707
South
Cass
Avenue
in
Westmont,
Illinois,
as
the
‘‘James
William
Robinson
Jr.
Memorial
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
6167
June
20,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Dec.
11,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
365
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
3025
Woodgate
Road
in
Montrose,
Colorado,
as
the
‘‘Ser-
geant
David
Kinterknecht
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
6216
June
25,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
366
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
241
N
4th
Street
in
Grand
Junction,
Colorado,
as
the
‘‘Dep-
uty
Sheriff
Derek
Geer
Post
Office
Build-
ing’’.
H.R.
6217
June
25,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
367
To
provide
for
a
coordinated
Federal
program
to
accelerate
quantum
research
and
devel-
opment
for
the
economic
and
national
se-
curity
of
the
United
States.
H.R.
6227
June
26,
2018
SST
CST
Sept.
13,
2018
950
............
Sept.
13,
2018
Dec.
13,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
368
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
322
Main
Street
in
Oakville,
Connecticut,
as
the
‘‘Oakville
Veterans
Memorial
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
6335
July
11,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Dec.
11,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
369
To
adjust
the
real
estate
appraisal
thresholds
under
the
7(a)
program
to
bring
them
into
line
with
the
thresholds
used
by
the
Fed-
eral
banking
regulators,
and
for
other
pur-
poses.
H.R.
6347
July
12,
2018
SB
SBE
Sept.
12,
2018
940
............
Sept.
25,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
370
To
adjust
the
real
estate
appraisal
thresholds
under
the
section
504
program
to
bring
them
into
line
with
the
thresholds
used
by
the
Federal
banking
regulators,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
6348
July
12,
2018
SB
SBE
Sept.
12,
2018
941
............
Sept.
25,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
371
To
require
the
Secretary
of
Homeland
Secu-
rity
to
conduct
a
threat
and
operational
analysis
of
ports
of
entry,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
6400
July
17,
2018
WM
HS
HS&GA
Sept.
4,
2018
914
............
Sept.
4,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
372
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
2801
Mitchell
Road
in
Ceres,
California,
as
the
‘‘Lance
Corporal
Juana
Navarro
Arellano
Post
Of-
fice
Building’’.
H.R.
6405
July
17,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
373
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
332
Ramapo
Val-
ley
Road
in
Oakland,
New
Jersey,
as
the
‘‘Frank
Leone
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
6428
July
18,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
374
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
1110
West
Mar-
ket
Street
in
Athens,
Alabama,
as
the
‘‘Judge
James
E.
Horton,
Jr.
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
6513
July
25,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
375
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D424 April 11, 2019
Title
Bill
No.
Date
intro-
duced
Committee
Date
Reported
Report
No.
Date
of
passage
Public
Law
House
Senate
House
Senate
House
115–
Senate
115–
House
Senate
Date
ap-
proved
No.
115–
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
501
South
Kirkman
Road
in
Orlando,
Florida,
as
the
‘‘Napoleon
‘Nap’
Ford
Post
Office
Build-
ing’’.
H.R.
6591
July
26,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
............
............
Sept.
28,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
376
To
reauthorize
the
Traumatic
Brain
Injury
program.
H.R.
6615
July
26,
2018
EC
..................
............
............
Dec.
11,
2018
Dec.
18,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
377
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
530
East
Main
Street
in
Johnson
City,
Tennessee,
as
the
‘‘Major
Homer
L.
Pease
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
6621
July
26,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
378
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
4301
Northeast
4th
Street
in
Renton,
Washington,
as
the
‘‘James
Marshall
‘Jimi’
Hendrix
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
6628
July
26,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
379
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
44160
State
Highway
299
East
Suite
1
in
McArthur,
California,
as
the
‘‘Janet
Lucille
Oilar
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
6655
Aug.
3,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
380
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
7521
Paula
Drive
in
Tampa,
Florida,
as
the
‘‘Major
Andreas
O’Keeffe
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
6780
Sept.
12,
2018
OGR
HS&GA
............
............
Sept.
28,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
381
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
35
West
Main
Street
in
Frisco,
Colorado,
as
the
‘‘Patrick
E.
Mahany,
Jr.,
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
6831
Sept.
17,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
382
To
amend
the
Overtime
Pay
for
Protective
Services
Act
of
2016
to
extend
the
Secret
Service
overtime
pay
exception
through
2020,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
6893
Sept.
25,
2018
OGR
Dec.
10,
2018
..................
1069
............
Dec.
10,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
383
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
10
Miller
Street
in
Plattsburgh,
New
York,
as
the
‘‘Ross
Bouyea
Post
Office
Building’’.
H.R.
6930
Sept.
27,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Dec.
11,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
384
To
reauthorize
and
improve
the
Juvenile
Jus-
tice
and
Delinquency
Prevention
Act
of
1974,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
6964
Sept.
28,
2018
E&W
..................
............
............
Sept.
28,
2018
Dec.
11,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
385
To
amend
the
Federal
Election
Campaign
Act
of
1971
to
extend
through
2023
the
au-
thority
of
the
Federal
Election
Commission
to
impose
civil
money
penalties
on
the
basis
of
a
schedule
of
penalties
established
and
published
by
the
Commission.
H.R.
7120
Nov.
13,
2018
HA
..................
............
............
Nov.
27,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
386
To
amend
the
Homeland
Security
Act
of
2002
to
establish
the
Countering
Weapons
of
Mass
Destruction
Office,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
7213
Dec.
3,
2018
HS
EC
..................
............
............
Dec.
10,
2018
Dec.
18,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
387
To
designate
the
facility
of
the
United
States
Postal
Service
located
at
226
West
Main
Street
in
Lake
City,
South
Carolina,
as
the
‘‘Postmaster
Frazier
B.
Baker
Post
Office’’.
H.R.
7230
Dec.
10,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Dec.
11,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
388
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D425
April 11, 2019
To
amend
Public
Law
115-217
to
change
the
address
of
the
postal
facility
designated
by
such
Public
Law
in
honor
of
Sergeant
First
Class
Alwyn
Crendall
Cashe,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
7243
Dec.
10,
2018
OGR
..................
............
............
Dec.
11,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
389
To
require
the
Secretary
of
Homeland
Secu-
rity
to
establish
a
security
vulnerability
disclosure
policy,
to
establish
a
bug
bounty
program
for
the
Department
of
Homeland
Security,
to
amend
title
41,
United
States
Code,
to
provide
for
Federal
acquisition
supply
chain
security,
and
for
other
pur-
poses.
H.R.
7327
Dec.
19,
2018
OGR
HS
..................
............
............
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
20,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
390
To
reauthorize
and
amend
the
Marine
Debris
Act
to
promote
international
action
to
re-
duce
marine
debris,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
756
Mar.
29,
2017
TI
NR
CST
July
24,
2017
............
135
July
25,
2018
Aug.
3,
2017
Dec.
21,
2018
391
To
provide
assistance
in
abolishing
human
trafficking
in
the
United
States.
S.
1311
June
7,
2017
Jud
FA
EC
HS
Jud
Aug.
1,
2017
............
0
Sept.
28,
2018
Sept.
11,
2017
Dec.
21,
2018
392
To
prioritize
the
fight
against
human
traf-
ficking
in
the
United
States.
S.
1312
June
7,
2017
Jud
E&W
FA
Jud
Aug.
1,
2017
............
0
Sept.
28,
2018
Sept.
11,
2017
Dec.
21,
2018
393
To
require
the
Under
Secretary
of
Commerce
for
Oceans
and
Atmosphere
to
carry
out
a
program
on
coordinating
the
assessment
and
acquisition
by
the
National
Oceanic
and
Atmospheric
Administration
of
un-
manned
maritime
systems,
to
make
avail-
able
to
the
public
data
collected
by
the
Administration
using
such
systems,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
2511
Mar.
7,
2018
NR
SST
AS
CST
July
9,
2018
............
291
Dec.
10,
2018
Aug.
23,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
394
To
amend
title
18,
United
States
Code,
to
make
certain
changes
to
the
reporting
re-
quirement
of
certain
service
providers
re-
garding
child
sexual
exploitation
visual
de-
pictions,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
3170
June
28,
2018
Jud
Jud
Sept.
18,
2018
............
0
Dec.
12,
2018
Sept.
27,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
395
To
reauthorize
the
National
Flood
Insurance
Program.
S.
3628
Nov.
15,
2018
BHUA
..................
............
............
Dec.
21,
2018
Nov.
29,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
396
To
amend
the
Congressional
Accountability
Act
of
1995
to
reform
the
procedures
pro-
vided
under
such
Act
for
the
initiation,
re-
view,
and
resolution
of
claims
alleging
that
employing
offices
of
the
legislative
branch
have
violated
the
rights
and
protections
provided
to
their
employees
under
such
Act,
including
protections
against
sexual
harassment,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
3749
Dec.
13,
2018
..................
..................
............
............
Dec.
13,
2018
Dec.
13,
2018
Dec.
21,
2018
397
To
establish
the
Stop,
Observe,
Ask,
and
Re-
spond
to
Health
and
Wellness
Training
pilot
program
to
address
human
trafficking
in
the
health
care
system.
H.R.
767
Jan.
31,
2017
EC
HEL&P
Sept.
25,
2017
327
............
Feb.
26,
2018
Dec.
20,
2018
Dec.
31,
2018
398
To
amend
the
Act
of
August
4,
1947
(com-
monly
known
as
the
Stigler
Act),
with
re-
spect
to
restrictions
applicable
to
Indians
of
the
Five
Civilized
Tribes
of
Oklahoma,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
2606
May
23,
2017
NR
IA
Aug.
21,
2018
Nov.
29,
2018
902
398
Sept.
12,
2018
Dec.
13,
2018
Dec.
31,
2018
399
To
require
the
Secretary
of
Homeland
Secu-
rity
to
examine
what
actions
the
Depart-
ment
of
Homeland
Security
is
undertaking
to
combat
the
threat
of
vehicular
terrorism,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
4227
Nov.
2,
2017
HS
HS&GA
Mar.
19,
2018
609
............
Mar.
22,
2018
Dec.
18,
2018
Dec.
31,
2018
400
To
encourage,
enhance,
and
integrate
Ashanti
Alert
plans
throughout
the
United
States,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
5075
Feb.
20,
2018
Jud
Jud
............
............
Sept.
25,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
Dec.
31,
2018
401
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D426 April 11, 2019
Title
Bill
No.
Date
intro-
duced
Committee
Date
Reported
Report
No.
Date
of
passage
Public
Law
House
Senate
House
Senate
House
115–
Senate
115–
House
Senate
Date
ap-
proved
No.
115–
To
direct
the
National
Science
Foundation
to
provide
grants
for
research
about
STEM
education
approaches
and
the
STEM-re-
lated
workforce,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
5509
Apr.
13,
2018
SST
CST
Sept.
25,
2018
975
............
Sept.
25,
2018
Dec.
20,
2018
Dec.
31,
2018
402
To
amend
title
51,
United
States
Code,
to
extend
the
authority
of
the
National
Aero-
nautics
and
Space
Administration
to
enter
into
leases
of
non-excess
property
of
the
Administration.
S.
7
Nov.
27,
2018
CST
..................
............
............
Dec.
20,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
Dec.
31,
2018
403
To
direct
the
Secretary
of
the
Interior
to
con-
duct
an
accurate
comprehensive
student
count
for
the
purposes
of
calculating
for-
mula
allocations
for
programs
under
the
Johnson-O’Malley
Act,
and
for
other
pur-
poses.
S.
943
Apr.
26,
2017
E&W
IA
Jan.
24,
2018
............
201
Dec.
11,
2018
Mar.
22,
2018
Dec.
31,
2018
404
To
expand
recreational
fishing
opportunities
through
enhanced
marine
fishery
conserva-
tion
and
management,
and
for
other
pur-
poses.
S.
1520
July
10,
2017
CST
..................
June
5,
2018
............
264
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
17,
2018
Dec.
31,
2018
405
To
amend
the
Public
Health
Service
Act
to
authorize
the
expansion
of
activities
related
to
Alzheimer’s
disease,
cognitive
decline,
and
brain
health
under
the
Alzheimer’s
Disease
and
Healthy
Aging
Program,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
2076
Nov.
6,
2017
HEL&P
..................
Nov.
29,
2018
............
0
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
31,
2018
406
To
amend
title
38,
United
States
Code,
to
authorize
the
Secretary
of
Veterans
Affairs
to
provide
certain
burial
benefits
for
spouses
and
children
of
veterans
who
are
buried
in
tribal
cemeteries,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
2248
Dec.
19,
2017
VA
..................
............
............
Dec.
10,
2018
Mar.
1,
2018
Dec.
31,
2018
407
To
amend
the
Public
Health
Service
Act
to
provide
grants
to
improve
health
care
in
rural
areas.
S.
2278
Jan.
4,
2018
EC
HEL&P
Mar.
12,
2018
............
0
Dec.
19,
2018
July
24,
2018
Dec.
31,
2018
408
To
develop
a
long-term
strategic
vision
and
a
comprehensive,
multifaceted,
and
prin-
cipled
United
States
policy
for
the
Indo-
Pacific
region,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
2736
Apr.
24,
2018
FR
..................
Oct.
3,
2018
............
0
Dec.
12,
2018
Dec.
4,
2018
Dec.
31,
2018
409
To
reauthorize
the
Museum
and
Library
Serv-
ices
Act.
S.
3530
Sept.
28,
2018
HEL&P
..................
Dec.
3,
2018
............
0
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
4,
2018
Dec.
31,
2018
410
To
direct
the
Administrator
of
the
United
States
Agency
for
International
Develop-
ment
to
submit
to
Congress
a
report
on
the
development
and
use
of
global
health
innovations
in
the
programs,
projects,
and
activities
of
the
Agency.
H.R.
1660
Mar.
21,
2017
FA
FR
Mar.
22,
2018
............
0
Jan.
18,
2018
Dec.
20,
2018
Jan.
3,
2019
411
To
designate
the
United
States
courthouse
lo-
cated
at
323
East
Chapel
Hill
Street
in
Durham,
North
Carolina,
as
the
‘‘John
Hervey
Wheeler
United
States
Court-
house’’.
H.R.
3460
July
27,
2017
TI
HS&GA
EPW
July
16,
2018
818
............
July
16,
2018
Dec.
20,
2018
Jan.
3,
2019
412
To
provide
competitive
grants
for
the
oper-
ation,
security,
and
maintenance
of
certain
memorials
to
victims
of
the
terrorist
at-
tacks
of
September
11,
2001.
H.R.
6287
June
28,
2018
NR
Sept.
10,
2018
..................
930
............
Sept.
12,
2018
Dec.
20,
2018
Jan.
3,
2019
413
To
require
agencies
to
submit
reports
on
out-
standing
recommendations
in
the
annual
budget
justification
submitted
to
Congress.
S.
2276
Jan.
4,
2018
HS&GA
..................
Sept.
4,
2018
............
331
Dec.
21,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
Jan.
3,
2019
414
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D427
April 11, 2019
To
award
a
Congressional
Gold
Medal
to
Ste-
phen
Michael
Gleason.
S.
2652
Apr.
11,
2018
FS
BHUA
............
............
Dec.
20,
2018
June
14,
2018
Jan.
3,
2019
415
To
provide
access
to
and
manage
the
dis-
tribution
of
excess
or
surplus
property
to
veteran-owned
small
businesses.
S.
2679
Apr.
16,
2018
SBE
..................
Oct.
11,
2018
............
414
Dec.
20,
2018
Dec.
6,
2018
Jan.
3,
2019
416
To
amend
the
Investment
Advisers
Act
of
1940
to
exempt
investment
advisers
who
solely
advise
certain
rural
business
invest-
ment
companies,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
2765
Apr.
26,
2018
FS
BHUA
............
............
Dec.
20,
2018
Oct.
11,
2018
Jan.
3,
2019
417
To
require
disclosure
by
lobbyists
of
convic-
tions
for
bribery,
extortion,
embezzlement,
illegal
kickbacks,
tax
evasion,
fraud,
con-
flicts
of
interest,
making
false
statements,
perjury,
or
money
laundering.
S.
2896
May
22,
2018
Jud
HS&GA
Aug.
15,
2018
............
317
Dec.
20,
2018
Aug.
23,
2018
Jan.
3,
2019
418
To
amend
chapter
5
of
title
40,
United
States
Code,
to
improve
the
management
of
Fed-
eral
personal
property.
S.
3031
June
7,
2018
HS&GA
..................
Oct.
4,
2018
............
343
Dec.
21,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Jan.
3,
2019
419
To
amend
certain
transportation-related
re-
porting
requirements
to
improve
congres-
sional
oversight,
reduce
reporting
burdens,
and
promote
transparency,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
3367
Aug.
22,
2018
CST
..................
Nov.
27,
2018
............
390
Dec.
21,
2018
Dec.
18,
2018
Jan.
3,
2019
420
To
designate
the
community-based
outpatient
clinic
of
the
Department
of
Veterans
Af-
fairs
in
Lake
Charles,
Louisiana,
as
the
‘‘Douglas
Fournet
Department
of
Veterans
Affairs
Clinic’’.
S.
3444
Sept.
17,
2018
VA
..................
............
............
Dec.
20,
2018
Dec.
18,
2018
Jan.
3,
2019
421
To
require
the
Secretary
of
Veterans
Affairs
to
establish
a
tiger
team
dedicated
to
address-
ing
the
difficulties
encountered
by
the
De-
partment
of
Veterans
Affairs
in
carrying
out
section
3313
of
title
38,
United
States
Code,
after
the
enactment
of
sections
107
and
501
of
the
Harry
W.
Colmery
Vet-
erans
Educational
Assistance
Act
of
2017.
S.
3777
Dec.
18,
2018
..................
..................
............
............
Dec.
20,
2018
Dec.
18,
2018
Jan.
3,
2019
422
To
reauthorize
the
National
Integrated
Drought
Information
System,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
2200
Dec.
6,
2017
CST
..................
May
22,
2018
............
256
Dec.
20,
2018
Dec.
18,
2018
Jan.
7,
2019
423
To
reauthorize
subtitle
A
of
the
Victims
of
Child
Abuse
Act
of
1990.
S.
2961
May
24,
2018
Jud
..................
Sept.
18,
2018
............
432
Dec.
20,
2018
Dec.
11,
2018
Jan.
7,
2019
424
To
reauthorize
the
Trafficking
Victims
Pro-
tection
Act
of
2000,
and
for
other
pur-
poses.
H.R.
2200
Apr.
27,
2017
FA
Jud
OGR
WM
TI
EC
AS
E&W
FR
Oct.
10,
2018
............
0
July
12,
2017
Dec.
17,
2018
Jan.
8,
2019
425
To
provide
for
the
expeditious
disclosure
of
records
related
to
civil
rights
cold
cases,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
3191
July
10,
2018
HS&GA
..................
Dec.
10,
2018
............
424
Dec.
21,
2018
Dec.
17,
2018
Jan.
8,
2019
426
To
amend
the
Trafficking
Victims
Protection
Act
of
2000
to
modify
the
criteria
for
de-
termining
whether
countries
are
meeting
the
minimum
standards
for
the
elimination
of
human
trafficking,
and
for
other
pur-
poses.
S.
1862
Sept.
26,
2017
FR
..................
Oct.
5,
2018
............
0
Dec.
21,
2018
Dec.
17,
2018
Jan.
9,
2019
427
To
improve
programs
and
activities
relating
to
women’s
entrepreneurship
and
economic
empowerment
that
are
carried
out
by
the
United
States
Agency
for
International
De-
velopment,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
3247
July
19,
2018
FR
..................
Nov.
28,
2018
............
0
Dec.
21,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Jan.
9,
2019
428
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D428 April 11, 2019
Title
Bill
No.
Date
intro-
duced
Committee
Date
Reported
Report
No.
Date
of
passage
Public
Law
House
Senate
House
Senate
House
115–
Senate
115–
House
Senate
Date
ap-
proved
No.
115–
To
authorize
early
repayment
of
obligations
to
the
Bureau
of
Reclamation
within
the
Northport
Irrigation
District
in
the
State
of
Nebraska.
H.R.
4689
Dec.
19,
2017
NR
ENR
May
22,
2018
700
............
Sept.
12,
2018
Dec.
22,
2018
Jan.
10,
2019
429
To
designate
additions
to
the
Flatside
Wil-
derness
on
the
Ouachita
National
Forest,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
5636
Apr.
26,
2018
NR
ANF
Oct.
23,
2018
989
............
Nov.
13,
2018
Dec.
22,
2018
Jan.
10,
2019
430
To
reauthorize
the
New
Jersey
Coastal
Herit-
age
Trail
Route,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
6602
July
26,
2018
NR
Dec.
3,
2018
..................
1061
............
Dec.
20,
2018
Dec.
22,
2018
Jan.
10,
2019
431
To
redesignate
Hobe
Sound
National
Wild-
life
Refuge
as
the
Nathaniel
P.
Reed
Hobe
Sound
National
Wildlife
Refuge,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
3456
Sept.
18,
2018
EPW
..................
............
............
Dec.
21,
2018
Dec.
19,
2018
Jan.
10,
2019
432
To
provide
for
a
program
of
the
Department
of
Defense
to
commemorate
the
75th
anni-
versary
of
World
War
II.
S.
3661
Nov.
27,
2018
..................
..................
............
............
Dec.
21,
2018
Nov.
27,
2018
Jan.
10,
2019
433
To
require
continued
and
enhanced
annual
re-
porting
to
Congress
in
the
Annual
Report
on
International
Religious
Freedom
on
anti-Semitic
incidents
in
Europe,
the
safety
and
security
of
European
Jewish
commu-
nities,
and
the
efforts
of
the
United
States
to
partner
with
European
governments,
the
European
Union,
and
civil
society
groups,
to
combat
anti-Semitism,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
672
Jan.
24,
2017
FA
FR
............
............
May
17,
2017
Dec.
22,
2018
Jan.
14,
2019
434
To
amend
titles
5
and
44,
United
States
Code,
to
require
Federal
evaluation
activi-
ties,
improve
Federal
data
management,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
4174
Oct.
31,
2017
OGR
HS&GA
Nov.
15,
2017
411
............
Nov.
15,
2017
Dec.
19,
2018
Jan.
14,
2019
435
To
amend
the
Federal
Water
Pollution
Con-
trol
Act
to
provide
for
an
integrated
plan-
ning
process,
to
promote
green
infrastruc-
ture,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
7279
Dec.
12,
2018
TI
..................
............
............
Dec.
19,
2018
Dec.
22,
2018
Jan.
14,
2019
436
To
amend
the
Federal
Assets
Sale
and
Trans-
fer
Act
of
2016
to
ensure
that
the
Public
Buildings
Reform
Board
has
adequate
time
to
carry
out
the
responsibilities
of
the
Board,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
7318
Dec.
17,
2018
TI
..................
............
............
Dec.
21,
2018
Dec.
22,
2018
Jan.
14,
2019
437
To
amend
the
Federal
Assets
Sale
and
Trans-
fer
Act
of
2016
to
provide
flexibility
with
respect
to
the
leaseback
of
certain
Federal
real
property,
and
for
other
purposes.
H.R.
7319
Dec.
17,
2018
TI
..................
............
............
Dec.
21,
2018
Dec.
22,
2018
Jan.
14,
2019
438
To
modernize
the
regulation
of
nuclear
en-
ergy.
S.
512
Mar.
2,
2017
EPW
..................
May
25,
2017
............
86
Dec.
21,
2018
Dec.
20,
2018
Jan.
14,
2019
439
To
reauthorize
the
Tropical
Forest
Conserva-
tion
Act
of
1998
through
fiscal
year
2021,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
1023
May
3,
2017
FR
..................
July
30,
2018
............
0
Dec.
21,
2018
Dec.
20,
2018
Jan.
14,
2019
440
To
help
prevent
acts
of
genocide
and
other
atrocity
crimes,
which
threaten
national
and
international
security,
by
enhancing
United
States
Government
capacities
to
prevent,
mitigate,
and
respond
to
such
cri-
ses.
S.
1158
May
17,
2017
FR
..................
June
27,
2018
............
0
Dec.
21,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Jan.
14,
2019
441
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0668 Sfmt 0668 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D429
To
enhance
the
transparency,
improve
the
co-
ordination,
and
intensify
the
impact
of
as-
sistance
to
support
access
to
primary
and
secondary
education
for
displaced
children
and
persons,
including
women
and
girls,
and
for
other
purposes.
S.
1580
July
19,
2017
FR
..................
July
26,
2018
............
0
Dec.
21,
2018
Dec.
12,
2018
Jan.
14,
2019
442
April 11, 2019
TABLE
OF
COMMITTEE
ABBREVIATIONS
AG
.........Aging
Agr
........Agriculture
ANF
.......Agriculture,
Nutrition,
and
Forestry
App
........Appropriations
AS
.........Armed
Services
BHUA
....Banking,
Housing,
and
Urban
Affairs
Bud
........Budget
CST
.......Commerce,
Science
and
Transportation
E&W
......Education
and
the
Workforce
EC
.........Energy
and
Commerce
ENR
.......Energy
and
Natural
Resources
EPW
......Environment
and
Public
Works
Eth
........Ethics
Fin
........Finance
FS
.........Financial
Services
FA
.........Foreign
Affairs
FR
.........Foreign
Relations
HEL&P
..Health,
Education,
Labor,
and
Pensions
HS
.........Homeland
Security
HS&GA
..Homeland
Security
and
Governmental
Affairs
HA
.........House
Administration
IA
..........Indian
Affairs
Int
.........Intelligence
Jud
........Judiciary
NR
.........Natural
Resources
OGR
.......Oversight
and
Government
Reform
R
...........Rules
RAdm
....Rules
and
Administration
SST
.......Science,
Space,
and
Technology
SB
.........Small
Business
SBE
.......Small
Business
and
Entrepreneurship
TI
..........Transportation
and
Infrastructure
VA
.........Veterans’
Affairs
WM
........Ways
and
Means
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0660 Sfmt 0660 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D430 April 11, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
3 p.m., Monday, April 15
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will meet in a pro forma
session.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
2:30 p.m., Friday, April 12
House Chamber
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma ses-
sion at 2:30 p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Apr 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D11AP9.REC D11APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
