Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S5121
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, JULY 29, 2019 No. 128
House of Representatives
The House was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Tuesday, July 30, 2019, at 11:30 a.m.
Senate
MONDAY, JULY 29, 2019
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, the same yesterday,
today, and forever, keep our lawmakers
strong, patient, and true. Give them
the wisdom to be just, reasonable, and
courageous as they do Your will on
Earth. Lord, teach them how to con-
duct themselves in contentious situa-
tions, as they seek to glorify Your
name. Bless them in all they do.
May they remember Your promise to
always be with them, inspiring them to
live in harmony, peace, and love. Lord,
give them the creativity needed to
build a better nation and world.
We pray in Your great Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business for 30 seconds.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, there
is a bad practice in pharmaceutical
pricing called spread pricing. Spread
pricing has historically siphoned
money from the State Medicaid Pro-
grams and given it to pharmacy benefit
managers or what we call PBMs. Drug
payments and Medicaid should focus on
the beneficiary, not the PBMs.
The bipartisan prescription drug leg-
islation I introduced this month with
Senator WYDEN bans spread pricing.
This will refocus the system on paying
for costs associated with prescribing a
drug instead of gaming the system to
reap a profit at the expense of the tax-
payers.
Medicaid funding should go to pa-
tients, not to the pockets of healthcare
middlemen.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
MUELLER REPORT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
welcome all Members back to the Sen-
ate for a busy week, but first there is
something I need to address.
Over the last several days, I was
called unpatriotic, ‘‘un-American,’’ and
essentially treasonous by a couple of
leftwing pundits on the basis of bold-
faced lies. I was accused of ‘‘aiding and
abetting’’ the very man I have singled
out as an adversary and opposed for
nearly 20 years: Vladimir Putin. This
was less than 24 hours after the out-
raged industrial complex was dis-
appointed yet again by Special Counsel
Mueller.
Partisan Democrats and their media
allies were crushed a few months ago,
when Mueller’s report cleared the
President of conspiring with Russia
during the 2016 campaign. Now their
frantic hyping of the special counsel’s
congressional testimony has fallen flat
once again, but the conspiracy theories
and reckless accusations had to con-
tinue. Too many people had invested
too much time in the hysterical echo
chamber to simply wind it down and
join the rest of us in the real world.
f
MEDIA
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, the
outraged industrial complex needed a
new target, and that is where I come
in—MITCH MCCONNELL—the hawkish
foreign policy conservative who has
spent decades pushing back on Russia
every way I can think of, was accused
of what amounts to treason by mul-
tiple media outlets within a couple of
hours.
These absurd smears weren’t thrown
out there by anonymous Twitter ac-
counts or fringe bloggers. Oh, no. This
modern-day McCarthyism was pushed
by big-time outlets. The smear that I
am ‘‘a Russian asset’’ ran in the opin-
ion pages of the Washington Post. The
accusations that I am ‘‘un-American’’
was broadcast on MSNBC.
This is the state of leftwing politics
in 2019. It is like an inflationary crisis
but with outrage instead of dollars.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:08 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29JY6.000 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5122 July 29, 2019
These people have worn out the volume
knob so badly that they have nothing
left but the most unhinged smears.
Welcome to modern-day McCar-
thyism—McCarthy-like tactics out in
the open for everyone to see—in Dana
Milbank’s column in the Washington
Post and on a major cable channel run
by NBC.
What started all this? Here was my
crime—bless me, for I have sinned:
Last week, I stopped Democrats from
passing an election law bill through
the Senate by unanimous consent, a
bill that was so partisan it only re-
ceived one Republican vote over in the
House. My Democratic friends asked
for unanimous consent to pass a bill
that everyone knows isn’t unanimous
and never will be unanimous, so I ob-
jected.
These theatrical requests happen all
the time in the Senate. I promise that
nobody involved, including my friend
the Democratic leader who made the
request, actually thought he would get
a Republican Senate to instantly
unanimously pass a bill that got one
Republican vote over in the House.
This kind of objection is a routine oc-
currence in the Senate. It doesn’t make
the Republicans traitors or un-Amer-
ican; it makes us policymakers with a
different opinion, but the outraged in-
dustrial complex doesn’t let a little
thing like reality get in their way.
They saw the perfect opportunity to
distort, tell lies, and fuel the flames of
partisan hatred, and so they did.
It started with the angry lies on
MSNBC. The host lied and said I have
dismissed Russia’s interference in our
2016 election as ‘‘a hoax.’’ Of course, I
have never said any such thing—ever. I
have spoken extensively and often
about Russia’s unacceptable inter-
ference in 2016. I have constantly dis-
cussed all we have been doing to cor-
rect the Obama administration’s fail-
ures to respond more assertively to the
Russian threat, including on election
security.
So let me make this crystal clear for
the hyperventilating hacks who
haven’t actually followed this issue.
Every single Member of the Senate
agrees that Russian meddling was real
and is real. We all agree that the Fed-
eral Government, State governments,
and the private sector all have obliga-
tions to take this threat seriously and
bolster our defenses.
Claims to the contrary—claims that
anybody here denies what Russia did
on President Obama’s watch—are just
lies. They are not partisan distortion,
not clever spin, just total fabrications.
At least this show is honest about
what it offers—and it isn’t journalism.
Immediately after the host finished his
angry string of false claims and calling
me ‘‘un-American,’’ another panelist
chimed in to applaud the remarks, and
here is what he said:
We are at war. It’s time for the Democrats
to wake up. . . . [And] we’re not necessarily
going to play fair.
‘‘Not necessarily going to play
fair’’—well, I should say not. Let’s re-
member how deep MSNBC waded into
the conspiratorial fever swamp over
the past 2 years.
They gave airtime to individuals like
one guest who has publicly tweeted,
among other things, that a former
White House adviser was close to being
executed for espionage and that Chief
Justice Roberts had sent the Marshal
of the Supreme Court to the White
House to threaten the President. That
is utter nonsense. They hosted these
kinds of conspiratorial voices.
Just a few days ago, one former host
at the network pointed out that
‘‘MSNBC built segment after segment,
show after show on building anticipa-
tion for a big reveal,’’ but then the
Mueller report took some of their most
unhinged stories right off the table.
Then, just last week, the special
counsel’s in-person testimony dis-
appointed the political left yet again,
so the conspiracy theories needed a
new target.
A few hours later came the Wash-
ington Post column. It was authored by
Dana Milbank, a pundit who spent
much of the Obama administration car-
rying water for its failed foreign poli-
cies and excusing President Obama’s
weakness on Russia. Here is the head-
line: ‘‘Mitch McConnell is a Russian
asset’’—a shameful smear and based on
more lies.
Mr. Milbank repeatedly claims that I
have blocked all efforts to raise our de-
fenses against Russian meddling. The
truth is, I have championed the coordi-
nated work between Congress, the ad-
ministration, and the States, which are
primarily responsible for our elections,
and the Senate has passed several
major provisions on this subject this
year. I have spoken frequently on the
floor about the need to keep up the
progress and to stay vigilant. What is
more, one of the specific pieces of legis-
lation he claims I have blocked is
something I literally have never op-
posed. His online column links directly
to a bill, and it is something I have
never opposed.
You would think a columnist leveling
these kinds of smears would at least
consult a fact checker before accusing
an elected official of ‘‘aiding and abet-
ting’’ Vladimir Putin, but, alas, it is
not even a competent hit piece, just
sloppy work.
Ironically, Mr. Milbank has fre-
quently written pieces lecturing Re-
publicans who he feels has impugned
others’ patriotism. Back in 2013, the
same guy wrote a piece insisting that
‘‘in America, a political opponent is
not the enemy.’’ In 2015, he criticized
‘‘nutters’’ for questioning the Presi-
dent’s patriotism and said that ‘‘such
beyond-the-pale-rhetoric’’ had to be
thrown out ‘‘to have a civilized de-
bate.’’ So you get the picture.
When a liberal politician is being
criticized, these leftwing pundits be-
come choir boys calling for civility and
decency and high mindedness, but
when it is time to smear somebody on
the other side, oh, they are delighted
to lead the charge.
As recently as 2017, this very col-
umnist wrote:
[L]et’s pause to remember: We are all the
American people. And we all love our coun-
try.
As all of our colleagues know, I have
spoken at length about Russia’s attack
on American democracy. I worked to
ensure that Congress sent hundreds of
millions of dollars to the States to im-
prove their defenses and applauded the
whole-of-government efforts that the
administration continues to carry out
with States and localities.
Good news may not sell any news-
papers, boost ratings, or help with
Democratic fundraising, but the facts
are the facts. The facts are that this
administration has made huge strides—
huge—on election security since 2016.
They made a noticeable impact in se-
curing the 2018 election and are vigi-
lant and proactive as we head into 2020.
A few weeks ago, every Senator had
the opportunity to attend an all-Mem-
bers classified briefing that I helped to
organize detailing the major work that
has been underway since 2016. I have
been in a lot of classified briefings over
the years. It is not exactly common for
Members to break out in spontaneous
applause, let alone bipartisan applause,
but that is exactly what happened in
that classified briefing. Behind closed
doors, Democrats joined Republicans in
applauding the progress made since
2016.
This administration—thanks in large
part to our friend and former col-
league, DNI Dan Coats, whom I was
very sorry to hear is stepping down—
has increased and improved our intel-
ligence collection on these threats. It
has built better and more functional
relationships with State election au-
thorities. It has enlisted more help
from the private sector to identify and
counter foreign influence campaigns. It
has worked more closely with foreign
allies and partners who face similar
threats from Russia. It has imposed
real costs on Russia for its misdeeds
and cut down on the ability of Russian
intelligence to operate inside our coun-
try.
In particular, the Department of
Homeland Security has employed spe-
cial capabilities in all 50 States for de-
tecting malign cyber activity. It has
deployed cyber security advisers all
across our country. It operates the Na-
tional Cybersecurity and Communica-
tions Integration Center and supports
the Elections Infrastructure Informa-
tion Sharing and Analysis Center.
Among its many offerings to the
States, DHS offers cyber security as-
sessments, detection and prevention
tools, training, and career development
for election officials, all free of charge.
Using the hundreds of millions of dol-
lars Congress sent to the States, which
I proudly voted for and supported, the
authorities who actually conduct our
elections on the frontlines have gotten
themselves better prepared.
This is a long list of significant
achievements—achievements that my
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:26 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29JY6.002 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5123
July 29, 2019
Democratic colleagues applauded and
cheered behind closed doors when the
administration briefed us a few weeks
ago. But in public? In public and in
front of the cameras, some of my col-
leagues quickly pivoted right back into
hysterical accusations that only fan
the flames of this modern-day McCar-
thyism.
These pundits are lying when they
dismiss the work that has been done.
They are lying when they insist I have
personally blocked actions, which in
fact I have championed and the Senate
has passed. They are lying when they
suggest that either party is against de-
fending our democracy. This work is
essential, and it will continue.
Over 2 years ago, I asked Chairman
BURR and the Intelligence Committee
to take a hard bipartisan look at all as-
pects of the Russian threat in 2016 and
the steps the Obama administration
took or failed to take to defend against
it. Here was the headline in December
2016 from NBC news: ‘‘McConnell Backs
Senate Investigations of Russian Hack-
ing.’’ We wanted a serious, detailed in-
vestigation, and not a political side-
show. I am impressed and grateful for
the nonpartisan work of the committee
staff under the leadership of Chairman
BURR and Vice Chairman WARNER. The
committee’s reports on the various as-
pects of the threat are now being re-
leased. They will add vital context and
analysis and inform on what to do
about this ongoing threat.
I am sure all of us will be open to dis-
cussing further steps that Congress,
the executive branch, the States, and
the private sector might take to defend
our elections against foreign inter-
ference. Any further legislation must
be informed by this detailed report and
by all the steps the government has al-
ready taken.
At the same time, you can be sure
that I have spoken out against Demo-
crats’ efforts to seize on the crisis and
use it to advance their other long-held
partisan goals for the political process.
Some of these changes they have
sought since long before the 2016 med-
dling—long before it. So, no, I am not
going to let Democrats and their
water-carriers in the media use Rus-
sia’s attack on our democracy as a Tro-
jan horse for partisan wish list items
that would not actually make our elec-
tions any safer. I am not going to do
that.
My opposition to nationalizing elec-
tion authorities that properly belong
with the States is not news to anybody
who has followed my career or knows
anything about Congress. Even the
New York Times’ editorial board noted
over the weekend that while they cer-
tainly don’t agree with all my views,
they are principles going back decades,
and the Times had to admit the Demo-
crats are ‘‘playing politics’’ by intro-
ducing legislation with—listen to
this—‘‘no chance of passing the Senate
[that] serves only to harden partisan
divisions.’’ That is the New York
Times this weekend.
So my differences with Democrats on
complicated matters of election law
are the kind of disagreements we used
to be able to have without mainstream
media outlets screaming that one side
is traitorous. This Congress and this
entire country only works when we
refuse to let baseless smears displace
real debate.
Benjamin Franklin said we have this
Republic if we can keep it, and, among
other things, keeping our Republic
means we can’t let modern-day McCar-
thyism win.
So here is my commitment: No mat-
ter how much they lie and no matter
how much they bully, I will not be in-
timidated. For decades, I have used my
Senate seat to stand up to Russia and
protect the United States of America. I
am proud of my record. I am proud
that it is right there in black and
white, and liars cannot gaslight it
away.
In the 1980s, as a freshman Senator, I
proudly stood with President Reagan
on missile defense and other aspects of
his Soviet policy. While the liberal
media was shrieking that the Reagan-
Bush foreign policy wouldn’t work, I
was honored to support them with my
vote and then watch communism crum-
ble.
Then, in the 1990s, I used my place on
the State, Foreign Operations, and Re-
lated Programs Subcommittee to
sound the alarm when President Clin-
ton was too soft on Russia. Here is the
Wall Street Journal on December 1994:
‘‘Kentucky Senator, Handed Keys to
Foreign Aid, To Be Most Potent Foe of
Clinton’s Russia Policy.’’ Here is what
that article said: ‘‘But the real chal-
lenge to the administration’s policy is
[McConnell’s] plan to attach stiff polit-
ical conditions to that aid. . . . threat-
ening a cutoff unless Russia stops med-
dling in its neighbor’s affairs.’’
Let me say that again. As early as
the 1990s, I was on record as laser-fo-
cused on Russia’s meddling beyond its
borders and making sure the Russians
were held accountable.
I ask unanimous consent that the De-
cember 13, 1994, article from the Wall
Street Journal entitled ‘‘Kentucky
Senator, Handed Keys to Foreign Aid,
To Be Most Potent Foe of Clinton’s
Russia Policy’’ be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From The Wall Street Journal, Dec. 13, 1994]
KENTUCKY SENATOR, HANDED KEYS TO FOR-
EIGN AID, TO BE MOST POTENT FOE OF CLIN-
TON’S RUSSIA POLICY
(By Carla Anne Robbins)
WASHINGTON—Jesse Helms may breathe
more fire, but the comparatively understated
Mitch McConnell is the senator who will be
the most potent foe of the Clinton adminis-
tration’s Russia policy.
As new Republican chairman of the key
Senate appropriations subcommittee over-
seeing Russian aid, Sen. McConnell will have
his hands on the foreign-aid money levers.
He brings to that task a deep mistrust of
Russia’s Boris Yeltsin matched only by his
skepticism of Deputy Secretary of State and
Russia policy architect Strobe Talbott,
whom he describes as ‘‘the brightest, best-
educated man I’ve ever met [who’s] been
most consistently wrong.’’
The senator from Kentucky is determined
to wean the U.S. from what he dismisses as
‘‘Strobe-Talbot-Russia-First(ism).’’ Just yes-
terday, Sen. McConnell gave some idea of
what he has in mind when he unveiled his
plan for overhauling the American foreign-
aid system. He pledged to earmark spending
on the former Soviet Union to ensure that
the lion’s share of a shrinking aid package
goes to countries other than Russia.
But the real challenge to the administra-
tion’s policy is his plan to attach stiff polit-
ical conditions to that aid, ‘‘linkages’’ in
Cold War parlance, threatening a cutoff un-
less Russia stops meddling in its neighbors’
affairs.
Sen. McConnell says that while his efforts
to ‘‘write Russia policy into the foreign-aid
bill’’ have been frustrated until now by a
Democratic majority, ‘‘I think it’s reason-
able to assume that that’s not going to hap-
pen this year.’’ Republican skepticism about
Russia will only increase because of Mr.
Yeltsin’s decision this week to send tanks
into the separatist region of Chechnya.
In a sign of the aggressive role he now in-
tends to play, Sen. McConnell yesterday up-
staged both Sen. Helms, who will run the
Foreign Relations Committee, and the Clin-
ton administration by releasing his own
version of a new foreign-aid budget. He pro-
posed doing away entirely with the Agency
for International Development, the nation’s
principal foreign-aid agency, and making
free-market policies rather than human
rights or absolute need the standard for de-
ciding who gets help. ‘‘In the past, develop-
ment assistance has focused on relieving the
symptoms of poverty and despair,’’ he said.
‘‘But by any standard, the fact is most poor
countries are still poor.’’
CUTTING BACK ON AID
Overall, Sen. McConnell’s program calls
for cutting foreign aid by some 20%, with
only the Middle East, the former Soviet
Union and Eastern Europe escaping cuts that
deep. Sen. McConnell made clear that the
only reason the former Soviet Union would
get $750 million under his plan, just $100 mil-
lion less than currently, is his intention to
send a significant portion of that money to
former Soviet Republics such as Ukraine and
Armenia, not to Russia.
A well-described Internationalist who has
supported aid to Russia in the past, Mr.
McConnell is likely to have great credibility
in a Republican-controlled Congress fearful
of being tarred isolationist but also deeply
skeptical about foreign aid and Messrs.
Yeltsin and Talbott.
Mr. McConnell and the Appropriations
Committee may also have more real power
than Sen. Helms and his Foreign Relations
Committee, which is supposed to write for-
eign-aid bills but hasn’t succeeded in getting
one passed since 1986. The job won’t get easi-
er under a divisive figure such as Sen. Helms.
That leaves the task of actually parceling
out foreign aid to the appropriating commit-
tees. Mr. McConnell’s House counterpart,
Alabama Rep. Sonny Callahan, who has tried
to kill Russia aid before, will be supportive.
TASTE OF BATTLES TO COME
The administration got a taste last sum-
mer of battles to come with Mr. McConnell.
At his urging, the Democratically controlled
Senate voted to cut off all U.S. funds to Rus-
sia unless its troops pulled out of Estonia by
their promised withdrawal date of Aug. 31.
The provision was struck in a conference
committee, but only after frantic lobbying
by administration officials who warned that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:26 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29JY6.003 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5124 July 29, 2019
brinksmanship would actually harden na-
tionalistic feelings in Moscow and make a
withdrawal less likely. The Russians pulled
out on time, with both Sen. McConnell and
the White House claiming victory.
Mr. Talbott says that he’s puzzled by the
charges of Russia-firstism. He notes that
some 55% of U.S. aid to the former Soviet
Union this year will be spent outside of Rus-
sia. Ukraine, in particular, will receive
about $200 million, significantly more than
the $150 million earmark proposed earlier
this year by Sen. McConnell.
Mr. Talbott also makes no apologies for his
enthusiastic support of Russian reform,
which he says ‘‘unarguably’’ will make life
better for Russia’s neighbors and the U.S.
‘‘It’s not a question of ‘what’s good for Rus-
sia,’ but whether Russia continues to develop
in a manner that’s good for American inter-
ests and values and standards of inter-
national behavior,’’ he says. ‘‘If Russia does
continue to develop in that manner it will
also be good for the other countries in the
region.’’
Mr. Talbott and others also warn against
‘‘mechanistic and punitive linkages,’’ which
he says are unlikely to alter specific Russian
actions and could end up souring what he de-
scribes as a fundamentally sound relation-
ship.
REPUBLICAN INTERNATIONALISTS
Despite all the Russia-bashing and
Talbott-bashing on Capitol Hill, and a recent
bout of U.S.-bashing by Mr. Yeltsin, Presi-
dent Clinton shows no signs of giving up on
the Russian leader. The administration’s fis-
cal 1996 foreign-aid request for the former
Soviet Union, which goes to Congress next
month, will likely be close to this year’s $850
million appropriation, with Russia again re-
ceiving about 45% of the total.
To get their package through, officials say
they will rely, as they have for the previous
two packages, on the support of a large cadre
of Republican internationalists including in-
coming Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole,
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, Sen. Richard
Lugar and, they hope, Sen. McConnell.
But whether that support is still there is
far from certain. Indeed, anti-Russian senti-
ment has been growing on both sides of the
aisle ever since Russian nationalists scored
big wins in last December’s Parliamentary
elections and the Central Intelligence Agen-
cy unmasked longtime Russian spy and sen-
ior CIA analyst Aldrich Ames. Ongoing quar-
rels with Moscow over Bosnia and the future
of NATO will only feed those doubts in
months to come.
Partisan jockeying may only make mat-
ters worse. The more President Clinton
claims his Russia policy as a success, the
more tempting it will be for presidential as-
pirants such as Mr. Dole to criticize the pol-
icy and Mr. Talbott, whose Brahmin manner,
first-friend status and unstinting defense of
the Russians makes him an easy target.
Even Mr. Gingrich, who became a sudden
convert to action in Bosnia after Mr. Clin-
ton’s recent retreat, may be tempted to
switch sides in the Russian debate.
But even the less emotional and less par-
tisan legislators are having serious doubts as
well. Sen. Lugar, a longtime champion of
Russian aid, says that three years of hard ex-
perience show that spending such money ef-
fectively in Russia is even harder than vot-
ing for it in Washington.
Pointing to a large backlog of appropriated
but as yet unspent funds—of the nearly $2
billion in economic aid promised to Russia
from 1992 to 1994, less than $500 million has
so far been spent—Mr. Lugar suggests that
the ‘‘appropriators may simply ask what’s
the point of appropriating any more.’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, on
the other end of the Clinton adminis-
tration, I used hearings to grill Demo-
cratic officials who were soft on Presi-
dent Yeltsin and optimistic about
President-elect Putin. I didn’t share
Democrats’ faith that Putin would be
our friend.
I ask unanimous consent that two ex-
cerpts of my committee statement
from the April 4, 2000, Senate Com-
mittee on Appropriations, Sub-
committee on Foreign Operations hear-
ing be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the material was
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as fol-
lows:
SENATE COMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS, SUB-
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN OPERATIONS HEAR-
ING ON USAID PROGRAMS—
Excerpts from opening statement of Sen.
Mitch McConnell:
‘‘First, we should support immediate and
unrestricted access for humanitarian relief
works, human rights investigators, and the
media. President-elect Putin says he sup-
ports the dictatorship of law. Accepting the
presence of these organizations will tell us
whether the president intends to emphasize
dictatorship or the accountability of laws.
Based on the UN High Commissioner’s trip
this week, he’s coming up a bit short.’’
‘‘We should act with clarity, principle, and
purpose. If Russia rejects that agenda, it re-
jects the core freedoms and virtues which de-
fine democracies. I see no wisdom in shoring
up dictators, even if you do dress them up as
democrats.’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, re-
gardless of who was in the White House
and regardless of which way the polit-
ical winds were blowing, I have consist-
ently treated Russia like the threat
that it is. Even under a Republican ad-
ministration, I spoke out when I was
afraid the United States wasn’t doing
enough to stop the erosion of democ-
racy and the rule of law in Russia.
A conference report that I coau-
thored in December 2003 stated: ‘‘The
managers remain gravely concerned
with the deterioration and systematic
dismantling of democracy and the rule
of law in Russia.’’ We pushed President
Bush’s administration—a Republican
administration—to do more.
And, of course, I helped lead the
charge against the Obama administra-
tion’s completely feckless Russia poli-
cies. President Obama mocked his 2012
opponent for taking Russia too seri-
ously. His administration sought a
naive reset with the Kremlin, and for 8
years, I helped to lead the charge
against that weakness.
In 2010, I stood with John McCain and
Jon Kyl to oppose the New START
Treaty, a watered-down placeholder for
the sort of tough stance we knew was
necessary. As Vladimir Putin was
building up his missile arsenal, we even
had to push President Obama to com-
mit to deploying capable missile de-
fenses to Europe.
In 2012, I firmly supported sweeping
legislation to authorize heavy sanc-
tions following the killing of Sergei
Magnitsky in a Russian prison. The
Obama administration flinched and
tried to tiptoe around our legislation
to avoid messing up their charm offen-
sive, but we backed him into a corner,
and the President signed the bill into
law.
In 2014, I and other Republicans con-
stantly pressed President Obama to get
tougher on Russia with respect to
Putin’s aggression in Ukraine.
I ask unanimous consent that the
news article dated March 4, 2014, enti-
tled ‘‘McConnell: Obama’s ‘Passive’
Foreign Policy ‘Is A Mistake’’’ be
printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[Mar. 5, 2014]
MITCH MCCONNELL: OBAMA’S ‘PASSIVE’
FOREIGN POLICY: ‘IS A MISTAKE’
(By Sabrina Siddiqui)
WASHINGTON—Senate Minority Leader
Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) laid into President
Barack Obama’s grasp of foreign policy
Wednesday, although he stopped just short of
blaming Obama for the crisis in Ukraine.
In recent days, a growing number of Re-
publicans have directly pointed fingers at
Obama over Russian President Vladimir
Putin’s aggression in Ukraine. GOP Sens.
John McCain (Ariz.) and Lindsey Graham
(S.C.), as well as Rep. Mike Rogers (Mich.),
have all said that the president’s attempt to
reset U.S.-Soviet relations showed he was
both naive and too trusting of Putin.
McConnell was asked during his weekly
press conference if he agreed with his Repub-
lican colleagues’ assessment, to which he re-
sponded with a lengthy critique of Obama’s
overall handling of foreign policy.
‘‘I would put it this way: Can you think of
any place in the world where we’re better off
now than we were when he came to office?’’
McConnell said, before tracing Obama’s glob-
al approach to his 2009 address in Cairo,
Egypt, which he interpreted as ‘‘questioning
American exceptionalism and the uniqueness
of our own country.’’
‘‘And he’s acted in such a way, almost
amounting to passivity in many instances,’’
he continued. ‘‘We’re not suggesting here
that the use of force is appropriate on very
many occasions . . . but there’s a widespread
kind of lack of respect of U.S. opinion.’’
‘‘It’s no wonder that Putin looks at the
United States and sort of concludes that no
matter what he does, he doesn’t pay a price
for it,’’ McConnell added.
The Kentucky Republican was pressed
again to state whether or not he believed
Obama is to blame for Putin’s move to
heighten Russia’s military activity in the
Crimean region. Once again, McConnell im-
plied as much without explicitly holding the
president responsible.
‘‘I think a passive approach to foreign pol-
icy, which basically means not asserting
American interests, is a mistake,’’ he said.
‘‘Some leaders are going to exercise power
[and] will push limits as far as they can if
they think that there’s no push back.’’
McConnell added that he was ‘‘hard pressed
to think of foreign policy successes’’ under
the Obama administration, but nonetheless
emphasized the need for Congress to work
with the White House on providing economic
assistance to the Ukrainian people.
‘‘We need to work with the administration
to try to undergird, if you will, reinforce the
new administration in Ukraine in every way
that we can,’’ he said.
Moments after McConnell spoke, Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) came
to Obama’s defense and pointed to former
President George W. Bush’s infamous dec-
laration that he had looked into Putin’s eyes
and seen his soul.
‘‘I’ve not heard Obama say that. In fact,
I’ve heard Obama speak out very clearly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:08 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29JY6.001 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5125
July 29, 2019
about that what Putin has done is wrong,’’
Reid said.
He added that it was unclear what the
‘‘right wing’’ Republicans attacking Obama
were seeking from the president.
‘‘Did they think that he should do an Iraq
move maybe?’’ Reid said. ‘‘I don’t under-
stand what they’re saying. I think that the
cautious direction of the president has been
very good in Ukraine.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
since 2017, I have continued reminding
everyone that Putin is not our friend.
Russia is going to continue trying to
meddle. We need a comprehensive
strategy to contest Russian aggression,
and alliances like NATO are critical
for standing up to our adversaries.
Once more, for good measure, I ask
unanimous consent that the news arti-
cle dated August 15, 2018, entitled ‘‘U.S.
Senate’s top Republican likens Russia
to ‘old Soviet Union’ ’’ be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[August 15, 2018]
US SENATE’S TOP REPUBLICAN LIKENS RUSSIA
TO ‘OLD SOVIET UNION’
(By Joe Gould)
WASHINGTON—Senate Majority Leader
Mitch McConnell, R–Ky., isn’t ready to get
cozy with Russia, comparing it to ‘‘the old
Soviet Union’’ on Tuesday.
A month after the Helsinki summit be-
tween U.S. President Donald Trump and his
Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin, at
which Trump discredited U.S. intelligence
and American policies isolating Moscow, the
powerful Senate leader showed he was on a
separate track.
‘‘The Russians are not our friends. They
try to create problems in every way they
can,’’ McConnell said in a news conference at
Fort Knox, Kentucky, set up to tout the $716
billion National Defense Authorization Act
that Trump signed into law Monday.
‘‘I think the Russians are acting like the
old Soviet Union used to act,’’ McConnell
said, pointing to its alleged meddling in U.S.
and European elections and its 2014 annex-
ation of Crimea from Ukraine. (Louisville-
based Spectrum News posted video of the
presser.)
Without mentioning it directly, McConnell
displayed his differences with Trump and
Sen. Rand Paul, the junior senator from
Kentucky and an outlier in the Senate when
it comes to Moscow. Paul, who visited Rus-
sia this month, said the politics in America
around the issues are poisoning the chances
for cross-Atlantic dialogue.
Trump’s openness toward Russia has fueled
tensions over the separation of powers.
Trump issued a signing statement for the
NDAA that claimed some provisions man-
dating tough action on Russia would actu-
ally impinge on the powers of the executive
branch.
‘‘This signing statement is troubling be-
cause, yet again, the President is showing
the world he cannot be trusted when it
comes to standing by U.S. commitments and
promoting our interests over—his own,’’ the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s rank-
ing member, Sen. Bob Menendez, D–N.J., said
in a statement. He called on Trump to ‘‘un-
equivocally stand strong for the United
States and our allies and against Kremlin
aggression.’’
The Senate has taken a few bipartisan
shots at Trump on Russia, voting over-
whelmingly to affirm support of NATO and
unanimously to oppose giving the Kremlin
access to U.S. officials. Still, Senate GOP
leaders blocked a bipartisan measure to re-
ject Putin’s denial of election interference,
mandate immediate enactment of sanctions
passed by Congress last year and ask Senate
committees to hold hearings into the sum-
mit’s private meeting between Putin and
Trump.
On Tuesday, McConnell lauded the NDAA’s
aid for Fort Knox (home to Army Human Re-
sources Command), its authorized end-
strength boost, and its recognition of Amer-
ica’s tense relationships with Russia and
China.
‘‘It would have been denying reality and in
a sense putting our head in the sand not to
have a significant increase in military
spending,’’ McConnell said, acknowledging
Defense Secretary Jim Mattis’ advocacy to
Trump and Congress for added spending.
‘‘In fact, we gave the Department of De-
fense exactly what they asked for,’’ McCon-
nell added. The Senate leader also praised
Trump’s tough stance against China on
trade.
‘‘We’d rather not be adversaries, but we
don’t have a perfect relationship either,’’
McConnell said of Beijing. ‘‘The Chinese
have become more aggressive on the mili-
tary side, which has been unusual for them
in the past.’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
don’t normally take the time to re-
spond to critics in the media when they
have no clue what they are talking
about, but this modern-day McCar-
thyism is toxic and damaging because
of the way it warps our entire public
discourse. Facts matter. Details mat-
ter. History matters. And if our Nation
is losing its ability to debate public
policy without screaming about trea-
son, that really matters.
In the middle of the 20th century, the
original McCarthyism hurt America’s
strength and diminished our standing
in the Cold War by dividing us against
ourselves and letting lies, innuendo,
and baseless accusations crowd out rea-
sonable politics. The frenetic politi-
cized witch hunt distracted from legiti-
mate efforts to contest the Soviet
Union, including more sober efforts to
root out real Soviet agents in our
midsts. In short, McCarthyism did the
Russian’s work for them. McCarthyism
did the work for the Russians.
Now, here we are in 2019. Again,
Putin and the Russians seek to pro-
voke fear and division in our country,
to undermine faith in our institutions,
to exacerbate our political divisions
until we tear ourselves apart, and, once
again, it seems there are some who
blindly take the bait.
American pundits are calling an
American official treasonous because
of a policy disagreement. If anything is
an asset to the Russians, it is dis-
gusting behavior like that.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
BIPARTISAN BUDGET ACT OF
2019—MOTION TO PROCEED
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to Calendar No. 165,
H.R. 3877.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 165, H.R.
3877, a bill to amend the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985,
to establish a congressional budget for fiscal
years 2020 and 2021, to temporarily suspend
the debt limit, and for other purposes.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. I send a cloture
motion to the desk for the motion to
proceed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to H.R. 3877, a bill to amend
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985, to establish a congres-
sional budget for fiscal years 2020 and 2021, to
temporarily suspend the debt limit, and for
other purposes.
Lamar Alexander, Thom Tillis, Martha
McSally, John Cornyn, Pat Roberts,
Mike Rounds, Susan M. Collins, Tom
Cotton, Roy Blunt, Roger F. Wicker,
John Thune, Bill Cassidy, Richard
Burr, John Barrasso, Rob Portman,
Lisa Murkowski, Mitch McConnell.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. I move to proceed
to executive session to consider Cal-
endar No. 402.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Kelly Craft, of Kentucky, to
be the Representative of the United
States of America to the United Na-
tions, with the rank and status of Am-
bassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary, and the Representative of
the United States of America in the Se-
curity Council of the United Nations.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. I send a cloture
motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Kelly Craft, of Kentucky, to be the
Representative of the United States of Amer-
ica to the United Nations, with the rank and
status of Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary, and the Representative of
the United States of America in the Security
Council of the United Nations.
Lamar Alexander, Thom Tillis, Martha
McSally, John Cornyn, Pat Roberts,
Mike Rounds, Susan M. Collins, Tom
Cotton, Roy Blunt, Roger F. Wicker,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29JY6.003 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5126 July 29, 2019
Bill Cassidy, John Thune, Richard
Burr, John Barrasso, Rob Portman,
Dan Sullivan, Mitch McConnell.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. I move to proceed
to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. I move to proceed
to executive session to consider Cal-
endar No. 394.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation David L. Norquist, of Virginia,
to be Deputy Secretary of Defense.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. I send a cloture
motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of David L. Norquist, of Virginia, to
be Deputy Secretary of Defense.
Lamar Alexander, Thom Tillis, Martha
McSally, John Cornyn, Pat Roberts,
Mike Rounds, Susan M. Collins, Tom
Cotton, Roy Blunt, Roger F. Wicker,
Bill Cassidy, John Thune, Richard
Burr, John Barrasso, Rob Portman,
Dan Sullivan, Mitch McConnell.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
calls for the cloture motions be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate resume legis-
lative session and consideration of the
veto messages as under the previous
order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL OF THE PRO-
POSED TRANSFER TO THE KING-
DOM OF SAUDI ARABIA, THE
UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT
BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRE-
LAND, THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN,
AND THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC OF
CERTAIN DEFENSE ARTICLES
AND SERVICES—VETO
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL OF THE PRO-
POSED EXPORT TO THE UNITED
ARAB EMIRATES, THE UNITED
KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN
AND NORTHERN IRELAND, AND
THE REPUBLIC OF FRANCE OF
CERTAIN DEFENSE ARTICLES
AND SERVICES—VETO
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL OF THE PRO-
POSED EXPORT TO THE KING-
DOM OF SAUDI ARABIA AND THE
UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT
BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRE-
LAND OF CERTAIN DEFENSE AR-
TICLES AND SERVICES—VETO
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to the consideration of the veto
messages to accompany S.J. Res. 36, 37,
and 38, which the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
Veto message to accompany S.J. Res. 36, a
joint resolution providing for congressional
disapproval of the proposed transfer to the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United King-
dom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
the Kingdom of Spain, and the Italian Re-
public of certain defense articles and serv-
ices.
Veto message to accompany S.J. Res. 37, a
joint resolution providing for congressional
disapproval of the proposed export to the
United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and
the Republic of France of certain defense ar-
ticles and services.
Veto message to accompany S.J. Res. 38, a
joint resolution providing for congressional
disapproval of the proposed export to the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ire-
land of certain defense articles and services.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I just lis-
tened with interest to the remarks of
the majority leader and his accounting
of history—his very defensive remarks,
based on an attack from, I guess, some
journalist. The majority leader, I
would say, was liberally using words
like ‘‘McCarthy’’ and ‘‘McCarthyism’’
and ‘‘liar’’ and how he proudly stood up
to the Soviet Union in the wake of
Brezhnev and Chernenko and Andro-
pov. They are fascinating words, but
you don’t need x-ray vision to notice a
few things about the discussion the
majority leader launched. First of all,
this weekend, the Director of National
Security resigned in frustration that
his boss, the President of the United
States, has chosen to believe Russia in-
stead of his own intelligence officials.
One of most embarrassing moments
in my lifetime was when the President
of the United States stood next to the
dictator of Russia and said that he be-
lieved Putin and not his own intel-
ligence officials and the consensus of
his intelligence officials when it comes
to influencing our 2016 elections.
So I hear that the majority leader al-
ways has an acute sense of history and
his place in it. I am hopeful the major-
ity leader, using his knowledge of his-
tory, understands the influence Russia
continues to have in our country and
on our elections and that this body will
actually address that instead of deny-
ing the obvious.
OPIOIDS
Mr. President, America is in the mid-
dle of a public health crisis. In my
State, 14 people die, on average, every
single day of a drug overdose. The
numbers are not much better in most
of the other 49 States. We have known
for a long time that addiction so often
starts in the family medicine cabinet
and that drug companies were all too
eager to push these addictive drugs on
the American people, but the evidence
we have seen in the past couple of
weeks is staggering.
New data from the DEA released this
month reveals that drug companies
flooded the country with 76 billion
oxycodone and hydrocodone pills from
2006 to 2012—76 billion pills in a nation
of slightly more than 323 million peo-
ple. Seventy-six billion pills is enough
to supply every person in the United
States with 36 pills every one of those
years from 2006 to 2012. This evidence
makes clear these companies, these
corporations knew exactly what they
were doing.
One wholesale drug distributor in
Ohio wrote an email that the opioid
pills were ‘‘flyin’ out of there. It is like
people are addicted to these things or
something. Oh wait, people are.’’
Can you believe that? He acknowl-
edged they are addicted, and he joked
about it. If that is not bad enough,
then the drug company representative
responded: ‘‘Just like Doritos, [people]
keep eating. We’ll make more.’’
They certainly did make more. That
is what Big Pharma does. They push
their drugs on the American people to
line their own pockets and the cost in
empty bank accounts and ruined lives
be damned.
If that isn’t bad enough, these cor-
porations can actually write off the
cost of advertising these drugs on their
taxes. In other words, all of us as tax-
payers subsidize this drug company ad-
vertising. All those years that Big
Pharma was pushing more and more
opioids on the country, selling them ad
after ad, they were getting a tax break
to do it. Yet does this body do anything
about that? Of course not.
For years, I tried to track down drug
company ads. It is why I introduced an
amendment at our Finance Committee
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29JY6.017 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5127
July 29, 2019
markup last week based on my legisla-
tion with Senator SHAHEEN to end tax-
payer subsidies for Big Pharma’s drug
ads. We shouldn’t be giving tax breaks
to Big Pharma to sell its drugs, period.
There are a lot of other ideas many
of us have to crack down on these com-
panies and limit their power to push
potentially addictive drugs on people.
Senator HASSAN filed an amendment
during that same committee drug pric-
ing markup to increase transparency
on these drug companies. Big Pharma
has a history of creating false grass-
roots organizations to do their lob-
bying for them. Groups supposedly
made up of ordinary citizens but in re-
ality are bought and paid for by drug
companies. People have the right to
know if the groups pushing drugs on
them are actually bought and paid for
by those pharmaceutical companies.
The opioid addiction crisis is one of the
greatest public health emergencies of
our lifetime, and it is crystal clear Big
Pharma purposefully and deliberately
helped to cause it, and the Federal
Government gave them tax breaks and
continues to give them tax breaks to
do it. We need to hold these corpora-
tions accountable, and we need to
make sure they never again have the
unchecked power to push addictive
drugs or any other drugs on the Amer-
ican people just to line their execu-
tives’ pockets.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
ELECTION SECURITY
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, yester-
day President Trump announced that
after nearly 21⁄2 years of dedicated serv-
ice, our former Senate colleague Dan
Coats would be stepping down from his
post as Director of National Intel-
ligence.
Director Coats has led the intel-
ligence community during a turbulent
time for our country, and with our
country continuing to face persistent
threats from rogue and hostile states,
as well as the ongoing war against ter-
ror, he has done a magnificent job and
one that deserves all the accolades we
can possibly bestow upon him. We
know he entered the job on the tail of
a blatant attempt by the Russian Gov-
ernment to interfere with our Nation’s
elections, and he made it a top priority
to ensure that the American people
could cast a vote with confidence in
2018 and beyond.
I just happened to come in the Cham-
ber, when the Senator from Ohio was
continuing to question the majority
leader’s commitment to election integ-
rity, and I must say that it is ironic to
me that the Russian interference with
the 2016 election was, by and large, met
with inaction, really nothing that the
Obama administration did, even
though they knew it was ongoing as
early as the summer of 2016.
The truth is, as a result of this ad-
ministration’s and this Congress’s ef-
forts, the 2018 election was essentially
interference free, and that is because of
tremendous actions being taken by the
Department of Homeland Security to
work with our partners in the State
election systems to provide sensors
that can identify attempts to hack into
their system as well as the movement
of State election officials to move to
paper ballots and the like.
We also know we have been much
more aggressive attacking the cyber
threats at their source, and while much
of that is classified and can’t be dis-
cussed in a public forum, suffice it to
say that if we can just repeat the suc-
cesses of 2018 during the Trump admin-
istration in 2020, Americans can be con-
fident their vote will be cast and be
counted as it should be.
That is not to suggest for a moment
that we shouldn’t remain vigilant be-
cause we know the Russian Federation
is going to continue to try to sow dis-
cord and cause us to question our own
institutions. They are very good at it.
They have been doing it a long time,
but now they have additional tools like
social media and propaganda as well as
the complicity sometimes of the main-
stream media in writing unverified and
unsourced stories that create more and
more and contribute more and more to
this atmosphere in which we currently
live.
Let me talk again about Director
Coats because his remarkable career as
a public servant included, at times, a
Congressman, an ambassador to Ger-
many, a U.S. Senator twice, and Direc-
tor of National Intelligence.
I know I speak for others in this
Chamber in saying that we are grateful
for Dan Coats’ dedicated service to our
country, and I am honored to be one of
those who can call him a friend. I wish
him and Marsha the best in whatever
the next chapter brings, hopefully
starting with a well-deserved vacation.
I was also glad to see that the Presi-
dent has chosen a worthy successor to
that position, my friend JOHN
RATCLIFFE. For 41⁄2 years, JOHN has
faithfully and diligently served Texas’s
Fourth District in Congress for the
people of Texas.
Prior to that, he served with distinc-
tion as U.S. attorney, prosecuting
cases that spanned a wide spectrum of
issues, including counterterrorism and
national security.
Mr. RATCLIFFE is a Member of the
House Intelligence, Homeland Secu-
rity, and Judiciary Committees, a pret-
ty good portfolio for somebody who
would be the next Director of National
Intelligence. So he already has an un-
derstanding of the threats facing our
country and the challenges that lie
ahead. I am confident he will continue
Dan Coats’ strong leadership as a non-
partisan strong leader for the intel-
ligence community.
Sadly, though, we can already begin
to see our Democratic colleagues be-
ginning to play their partisan games,
threatening to defeat this nomination
at the expense of the American people.
This position is simply too important
to the security of our Nation to be
bogged down in partisan politics. Since
this job was created, every single Di-
rector has been confirmed by an over-
whelming bipartisan vote. In fact, none
of these men received the support of
fewer than 85 Senators. This one should
be no different.
I look forward to the President for-
mally nominating JOHN RATCLIFFE to
be the next Director of National Intel-
ligence.
JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS
Mr. President, on another matter,
during the first 2 years of the Trump
administration, the list of vacancies
across the Federal Government was a
long one, particularly on the Federal
bench. The administration worked
swiftly to find well-qualified nominees
who were eager to serve our country
and our Federal judiciary. Once those
nominees were submitted to the Sen-
ate, the chairman quickly held con-
firmation hearings and advanced the
vast majority of these nominees to the
floor, but from there the process came
to a screeching halt. But from there,
the process came to a screeching halt.
Our colleagues on the other side pulled
every trick in the book to bog down
and slow down the nominations proc-
ess. For no other purpose than delay,
they forced cloture votes on nominees
with broad bipartisan support. Many
were confirmed without a single Sen-
ator voting against them. Our Demo-
cratic colleagues didn’t do this because
these men and women were unqualified
or otherwise controversial, but they
did so because they were willing to do
whatever it took to stymie President
Trump and his administration and
bring the work of this body to a crawl.
The list of vacancies kept growing
longer and longer until, earlier this
year, we were forced to pass a modest
rules change that has fortunately bro-
ken the logjam and allowed us to fill
these critical positions. As the major-
ity leader likes to say, we are now
making serious headway in the per-
sonnel business. The number of vacan-
cies has gotten smaller, and the list of
public servants who are now on the job
keeps getting longer.
Last week, we added more names to
that impressive list. We confirmed two
district judges, inspector general for
the Department of Homeland Security,
and both the Administrator and Dep-
uty Administrator of the Federal Avia-
tion Administration. In addition, we
approved two leaders whose experience
will provide needed stability and lead-
ership at the Pentagon.
After nearly 7 months with an Acting
Secretary of Defense, Mark Esper has
finally been confirmed for the position
of Secretary of Defense on a permanent
basis. Throughout his career, Secretary
Esper has demonstrated integrity,
sound judgment, and unabashed patri-
otism. I saw those qualities when I met
with him most recently a few weeks
ago and we had the chance to speak
about some of the most pressing global
threats we were facing as a nation
today. Secretary Esper received broad
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29JY6.020 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5128 July 29, 2019
bipartisan support, with 90 Senators
voting for him. I am glad he is now on
the job, leading America’s national se-
curity.
We also confirmed another important
senior Department of Defense official
last week. GEN Mark Milley was re-
soundingly confirmed to be Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, with only
one Senator voting against him. I can’t
think of anyone more prepared for the
job than General Milley, a former
Army Ranger and Green Beret. He has
a remarkable military resume, includ-
ing commander officer of the III Corps
in Fort Hood, TX, where I first got to
know him years ago. I know he and
Secretary Esper will continue to have a
strong working relationship, and I look
forward to continuing to work with
both of them in their new roles.
This week, we intend to keep our
progress on nominations going strong,
and we have seven Texas district court
judge nominees on the docket. Among
those well-qualified nominees is a
former Army paratrooper and Marine
JAG officer, former and current inter-
mediate court judges, former and cur-
rent Federal and State prosecutors,
and a Texas Supreme Court justice—a
job I once held. They have all proudly
served the Lone Star State in a variety
of capacities.
I am, again, impressed by the out-
standing nominees that the President
has recruited to fill these important ju-
dicial vacancies. When these nominees
are confirmed, we will finally break
down two barriers in the Texas district
courts. Ada Brown will be the first Af-
rican-American woman to sit in the
Northern District of Texas, and Jason
Pullman will be the first African Amer-
ican in the Western District of Texas.
Each of these nominees has shown
their legal acumen, clear judgment,
and unwavering commitment to the
rule of law. I look forward to voting for
their nominations later this week.
In addition to confirming these Tex-
ans and a dozen other district court
judges, the Senate will confirm a crit-
ical Cabinet-level position in the ad-
ministration. When Nikki Haley an-
nounced that after 2 years of dedicated
service, she would leave her post as
Ambassador to the United Nations at
the end of last year, we knew it would
leave a major hole in that organiza-
tion. But the President didn’t have far
to look to find a well-qualified nomi-
nee. Two years ago, the Senate unani-
mously confirmed Kelly Knight Craft
to serve as the U.S. Ambassador to
Canada. Looking back on that 2 years
now, it is safe to say it has been a dy-
namic time during our relationship
with our neighbor to the north, a fact
that made Ambassador Craft’s job all
that much more important.
Through each challenge and dif-
ference between our leaders, Ambas-
sador Craft has demonstrated her tact
and diplomatic skills. In addition to
the usual duties of the office, Ambas-
sador Craft facilitated the renegoti-
ation of NAFTA—the North American
Free Trade Agreement—and helped
broker the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agree-
ment—the USMCA. She helped build
consensus on this agreement, which
will benefit North American workers,
farmers, and businesses, and won
friends from both countries in the proc-
ess.
Once Trump nominated Ambassador
Craft to represent the United States in
the U.N., we heard glowing endorse-
ments from many of those people. Ca-
nadian officials praised her role in
NAFTA negotiations and border condi-
tions, and U.S. diplomats who served
under Republican and Democratic ad-
ministrations spoke of their confidence
in Ambassador Craft and her ability to
represent our country on the world
stage.
For the last 2 years, Ambassador
Craft has made our country proud as
the U.S. Ambassador to Canada, and I
am confident her outstanding record
will continue at the United Nations. I
appreciate her willingness to serve in
this important role and look forward to
voting for her nomination later this
week.
As we prepare to head home for the
August recess to spend time with our
constituents, I am glad to know these
important positions throughout the
Federal Government will not be left
vacant for much longer.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
(The remarks of Mr. BARRASSO per-
taining to the introduction of S. 2302
are printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
(Mr. DAINES assumed the chair.)
Mr. BARRASSO. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
ELECTION SECURITY
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, a few
minutes ago, the majority leader came
to the floor to express his frustration
at being accused of blocking election
security legislation. I would make
three factual points.
First, Russia did interfere in our 2016
elections. Every intelligence agency,
everyone who has looked at this is 100
percent clear Russia interfered.
Two, Russia will attempt to interfere
in the 2020 elections and is already
doing it. That is not only what Special
Counsel Mueller said but FBI Director
Wray and many other appointees in the
intelligence and counterintelligence
agencies appointed by President
Trump.
Three, the Republican majority has
done nothing—absolutely nothing—to
deal with this problem.
So here is an easy way for Leader
MCCONNELL to silence the critics who
accuse him of blocking election secu-
rity: Stop blocking.
Leader MCCONNELL doesn’t have to
put the bills that we Democrats have
proposed or the bill the House has
passed—they were bipartisan bills—and
we can debate the issue.
America’s democracy is at risk when
a foreign power interferes. So if Leader
MCCONNELL doesn’t like being criti-
cized on election security, I challenge
him: Let’s debate it on the floor with
amendments. I challenge him: Support
additional appropriations for States to
harden their election systems. In both
cases, Leader MCCONNELL has not done
that. In fact, he has said he opposes
more money to the States even though
they say—I believe there are 21 attor-
neys general who have said they need
more money.
Despite our requests, Leader MCCON-
NELL has not only blocked unanimous
consent requests but has not put any
other legislation on the floor to deal
with this.
Again, I repeat, this should not be a
political issue. This should not be a po-
litical issue. Whether you are a Demo-
crat, Republican, Independent, whether
you are a liberal, a conservative, in be-
tween, you should despise the fact—
any American should despise the fact—
that Russia has interfered in our elec-
tions and is attempting to do so again.
Putin wants to disrupt our democracy.
He resents that we are a free and open
and wonderful democratic society. And
for us to sit here with our arms folded
and do nothing? Unheard of in previous
years.
I still don’t have a really clear idea
why Leader MCCONNELL is so ada-
mantly opposed to doing anything on
election security. Maybe it is because
President Trump, in his childlike way,
resents the fact that people point out
that Russia interfered. He thinks it
delegitimizes his Presidential election.
But that is not a good enough reason,
if that is the case. We have an obliga-
tion. Do you know whom we have an
obligation to, Mr. President? We have
an obligation to the hundreds of thou-
sands of Americans—the millions of
Americans who laid down their lives to
defend our right to vote in our free and
open democracy throughout the cen-
turies.
If we are going to let a foreign power
interfere and not do anything about it
for some kind of political reason,
shame on us. Shame on this body. And
it is Leader MCCONNELL who, as the
majority leader, can determine what is
put on the floor, and he has put noth-
ing on the floor on elections.
When last year we attempted in the
appropriations bill to add more money
to help the States harden their systems
against cyber attack, to make sure
they have paper ballots in case some-
one tampers with the ballots, Leader
MCCONNELL opposed it. He said it is not
needed. Just recently, I heard him say
it is not needed. That is not true. That
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29JY6.022 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5129
July 29, 2019
is absolutely not true. Twenty-one at-
torneys general say they need it. Nine
States don’t have backup systems with
complete paper balloting.
So if Leader MCCONNELL takes um-
brage at his election security critics, I
challenge him: Prove them wrong. Sup-
port our amendment to the appropria-
tions bill. Bring election security legis-
lation to the floor because, as the Sen-
ate Intelligence Committee, which is
chaired by a Republican, the FBI Di-
rector, who was appointed by President
Trump, and former Special Counsel
Mueller, who did an extensive inves-
tigation, have all made clear, when it
comes to Russian interference in our
elections, the case is certainly not
closed.
DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE
Mr. President, yesterday the Director
of National Intelligence, Dan Coats—a
former Member of this Chamber who is
renowned for his integrity and his bi-
partisanship—announced his resigna-
tion. With his departure, the circle of
advisers who are unafraid to speak
truth to President Trump continues to
shrink. It seems that if you are going
to speak truth and tell the President
something he doesn’t want to hear, you
are fired or at least frozen out so that
you quit. Coats is one of many in a
long line to whom this has been done.
Now, making matters worse, the Presi-
dent proposed replacing this longtime,
fair, decent, and honorable public serv-
ant with a partisan shill—Representa-
tive JOHN RATCLIFFE of Texas.
The DNI—Director of National Intel-
ligence—handles some of the most sen-
sitive responsibilities in the Federal
Government. It requires a high level of
expertise. It requires trust from the in-
telligence community. And it requires
a track record of independence, an abil-
ity in the closed confines of the White
House to speak truth to power and tell
the President what is happening, not
just what the President wants to hear.
On all these measures, it seems Rep-
resentative RATCLIFFE falls far short of
that high bar.
John Negroponte became the DNI
after decades of working in the Foreign
Service. Dennis Blair, James Clapper,
and Mike McConnell all had decades of
military experience. Dan Coats served
as a diplomat, Senator, and sergeant in
the Army before assuming the post.
Representative RATCLIFFE, on the
other hand, is a three-term tea party
Congressman who, when he goes on TV,
sort of appeals to the President’s sense
of stridency and partisanship.
Representative RATCLIFFE lacks the
experience required to lead an intel-
ligence agency, much less the entire
intelligence community. His time in
Congress—particularly over the past
several weeks since it was rumored he
might be picked for the post—has been
alarmingly partisan. He has been a
fierce critic of the Russia investiga-
tion. He has earned praise from deep
state conspiracy theorists.
During the Mueller hearings, Rep-
resentative RATCLIFFE badgered and
harassed the former special counsel
with a baseless line of questioning and
repeatedly interrupted him when he
was trying to respond. He showed little
regard for the seriousness of Putin’s in-
terference in our election and the need
for election security in the future.
Watching Representative
RATCLIFFE’s performance in the
Mueller hearing, I was reminded of how
I felt watching General Flynn. In the
summer of 2016, I saw this three-star
general leading chants of people—
‘‘Lock her up’’—at the Republican con-
vention and at rallies. I said: Who is
this guy? How does someone become a
three-star and do something like this?
At the time I thought: There is some-
thing seriously wrong with General
Flynn here.
Well, I had the same feeling watching
Mr. RATCLIFFE at the Mueller hearing.
The same twisting and subversion and
flatout ignorance, the same partisan
demagoguery to appeal to the worst in-
stincts of Americans all seem to be his
MO. There is something wrong here.
The DNI is supposed to be the least
partisan member of the President’s
Cabinet. It would be a grave mistake
for the Senate to elevate this partisan
warrior to that position.
I have to wonder, are my Republican
colleagues comfortable with their par-
ty’s direction on national security? Are
they comfortable going along with
Leader MCCONNELL as he blocks legis-
lation to protect our elections and
deter foreign adversaries from inter-
fering? Are they comfortable with a po-
larizing, partisan candidate taking
charge of our national intelligence
community? Are they comfortable
knowing that this nominee may well
not tell the President the truth when
there is evidence from our brave intel-
ligence operatives around the world
that something we are doing is wrong?
I would hope my Republican col-
leagues would be deeply uncomfortable
with these developments. Ten years
ago, I have no doubt, Mr. RATCLIFFE
wouldn’t have even been nominated, let
alone approved by this body. So I hope
that is the case today. I hope we
haven’t gone so far away and in such
obeisance to a President who only likes
to hear what he wants to hear that we
would nominate someone like this. It
would be a shame and it would weaken
America because if we don’t know the
truth, we can’t act on the truth.
Will our Republican colleagues start
speaking up and doing something about
this? When Mr. RATCLIFFE comes be-
fore the Senate, he will have to answer
for his long history of partisan state-
ments and blind fealty to President
Trump. Mr. RATCLIFFE will have to an-
swer tough questions about Russia’s
meddling in our election, about his ap-
parent disinterest in election security,
and about his inability or unwilling-
ness to show independence from the
President. If he sounds anything like
he did while questioning Mueller, Sen-
ate Republicans would be making a
grave mistake by advancing his nomi-
nation—a mistake for the country we
love.
CHINA
Mr. President, finally, on China,
starting today, the United States will
resume trade negotiations with China,
which have recently stalled over Chi-
nese equivocation on a number of
issues.
Anyone who has viewed China’s be-
havior over the past year of negotia-
tions—or for that matter, the past dec-
ade of its behavior—knows China is al-
ways reluctant to make concessions
that would put its businesses on a level
playing field. China will resist, delay,
and offer bare-bones concessions and
then retract them in hopes that it can
avoid meaningfully reforming its econ-
omy and playing fair on trade.
So, as negotiations begin again, I
urge President Trump and his team not
to back down but to put unrelenting
pressure on China to make significant,
concrete, and enduring commitments
to trade fairly.
I don’t agree with President Trump
on much, but he has been tougher on
China than any of the previous admin-
istrations, and that is needed. But to
be tough on China and then surrender
our leverage at the last minute for
nothing in return would be terrible.
One of our greatest leverage points
against China is Huawei, a state-sup-
ported Chinese telecom giant that our
intelligence agencies have labeled
nothing less than a national security
threat. The Trump administration has
correctly sought restrictions on
Huawei, even while they have some-
times waved on their severity.
Now, as negotiations are set to re-
sume, the President must not give up
leverage on Huawei in exchange for
anything less than concrete commit-
ments on market access, intellectual
property theft, and forced technology
transfers.
These are issues paramount to the
competitiveness of American business
and will cause us to lose millions of
jobs and trillions of dollars in the fu-
ture, as we have lost in the past and as
the President correctly points out, to
China’s rapaciousness.
I am concerned enough now about
the possibility the administration will
sell out, particularly in the wake of re-
ports that President Trump has agreed
to soft pedal criticism of China over its
Hong Kong policy, hoping for smoother
trade talks.
The administration is wrong on two
fronts. First, it is always crucial for
the United States to stand up for de-
mocracy, human rights, and civil lib-
erties everywhere. The idea that the
President of the United States would
sell the democratic aspirations of the
brave people of Hong Kong down the
river in exchange for possible progress
on trade is shocking. But, second, the
idea that going easy on China’s human
rights record will ease trade talks is
backward. China responds to strength,
not flattery or capitulation.
The best way to get China to do
something fair is to stand tough on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29JY6.024 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5130 July 29, 2019
Huawei. Don’t sell out. Don’t give
Huawei half or three-quarters of what
it wants. Hold tough, and the Chinese
in a few months will come to us with
real concessions. It is a game of who is
stronger and who can last longer. I
hope it is us. If it is not, all of the
President’s previous actions on China
will be wasted and go down the drain.
9/11 VICTIM COMPENSATION FUND
There are two more things, including
the VCF bill signing. There are some
good things that happened in the last
week in Washington. People think
nothing good comes out of Washington.
Once in a while, we do something good.
Once in a while, our Republican col-
leagues will go along with something
that needs to be done, instead of block-
ing everything and putting it in a
graveyard, which they usually do. That
happened last week when this body fi-
nally passed the bipartisan 9/11 Victim
Compensation Fund bill, and today the
President signed it into law, closing
the book on nearly two decades of ad-
vocacy to provide the care and com-
pensation that 9/11 first responders de-
serve.
Nothing, nothing should or can get in
the way of our first responders getting
their due. Finally, at last, these brave
first responders had to spend too much
time here in Washington, often in their
wheelchairs, often dying of cancer, beg-
ging Senators to give them the help
they need—the same help we give to
veterans who, like our first responders
after 9/11, in a time of war, rushed to
danger and suffered injury. We help
them. We help our veterans, our sol-
diers, and our Armed Forces, in the
same way we should be helping 9/11
first responders. At long last, we are
doing that. It has been a long struggle,
but because of the courage of many
who joined the cause, the memory of
people like James Zadroga, Ray
Pfeifer, Luis Alvarez, and so many oth-
ers will live on in this law. Their par-
ents—and I know Mrs. Pfeifer and I
know some of the Alvarez family; I
have met them—can know, despite the
pain in their hearts at their grave
losses, that the deaths of their loved
ones will not be in vain.
BIPARTISAN BACKGROUND CHECKS
Finally, my heart is filled with sad-
ness and anger today after reports of
deadly shootings at festivals on oppo-
site coastlines, one in my hometown of
Brooklyn and another across the coun-
try, in Gilroy, CA. There are no words
for the senselessness of these tragedies,
which continue unabated while the ma-
jority leader once again refuses to even
debate commonsense gun laws.
Put the bill the House passed on the
floor. We have had bipartisan efforts in
this body to close the gun show loop-
hole. Let’s close the loopholes and have
universal background checks. Almost
no Americans object to preventing fel-
ons or spousal abusers or those adju-
dicated mentally incompetent from
getting guns, but Leader MCCONNELL
and the Republican majority do, and
we have made no progress and these
awful events continue.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The remarks of Mr. CARPER per-
taining to the introduction of S. 2302
are printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
Mr. CARPER. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). The Senator from Montana.
(The remarks of Mr. DAINES per-
taining to the submission of S. Res. 289
are printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
Mr. DAINES. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Your res-
olution will be received and appro-
priately referred.
The Senator from New Jersey.
VETO OVERRIDE
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
rise to urge my colleagues to join me
in voting to override the President’s
veto of three resolutions of disapproval
on arms sales to Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates.
As we all know, several weeks ago,
the Secretary of State attempted to
bypass this body and the entire Con-
gress on 22 separate arms sales to
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates—all on the pretext of an ur-
gent physical threat from Iran that
was, at best, ill-defined and, at worst,
completely false.
Let me be clear. Iran has and will
continue to pose a threat to U.S. inter-
ests and allies in the region, and I have
and will continue to approve arms sales
to partners and allies that address le-
gitimate security threats and advance
American interests.
From the start, this administration
has failed to demonstrate what kind of
national security threat or ‘‘emer-
gency’’ from Iran warranted fast-track-
ing the sale of these weapons to Saudi
Arabia and the UAE.
Indeed, Secretary Pompeo’s own May
24 justification for the sales lacked any
persuasive information explaining how
these sales would address an Iranian
threat so serious that it justified by-
passing Congress on an ‘‘emergency’’
basis.
That is why I introduced resolutions
to disapprove these sales, and that is
why 6 weeks ago, this body came to-
gether in a bipartisan way to reassert
the role of Congress in reviewing arms
sales and passed 22 separate resolutions
of disapproval.
Today I ask that we come together
again. In fact, not even President
Trump’s own veto messages mention
the word ‘‘emergency.’’ It is clear this
administration has had other motives
from the start. We continue to hear of-
ficials invent new reasons for pushing
through these sales. We heard these
sales are necessary for ‘‘sustaining the
global supply chain,’’ for preventing
‘‘loss of sale to peer competitors,’’ for
maintaining U.S. ‘‘credibility as an
arms supplier,’’ and so on.
So, look, many of us expected the
President to use his veto powers. That
is his right, but the constitutional,
strategic, and moral imperatives that
led the Senate to reject the sale of
these arms 6 weeks ago still stand
today.
Let me review three main reasons I
hope we can unite today to override
the President’s veto.
First is how these weapons are being
used. By now, we are well acquainted
with what has been, at best, the incom-
petent, and, at worst, criminal actions
of Saudi Arabia’s airstrikes in Yemen.
All evidence suggests that the Saudis
have intentionally targeted hospitals,
bridges, power stations, apartment
buildings, weddings, schools, and, yes,
even a schoolbus filled with children,
leaving thousands of Yemeni civilians
killed or maimed.
Over the years, Congress has received
many assurances about how U.S. arms
sales, advice, and assistance would sup-
posedly help the Saudi Air Force and
command authority better identify
military targets and thereby reduce
the risk to civilians. Those assurances
no longer stand. We cannot brand the
sale of precision-guided munitions as
humanitarian weapons if the Saudis
are intentionally targeting civilians in
the first place.
That is why, last year, I placed an in-
formal hold on the sale of 60,000 preci-
sion-guided munitions, or PGMs, to
Saudi Arabia, requesting the adminis-
tration explain how they would en-
hance efforts to reduce civilian casual-
ties. They failed to do so in a fulsome
and convincing way, and, believe me, I
would like to be convinced.
After the slaughter of Washington
Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi in Oc-
tober of last year, the Trump adminis-
tration apparently flatout gave up try-
ing to convince anyone that the Saudis
have any regard whatsoever for human
rights at home, in Yemen, or at their
diplomatic consulates abroad.
Last week, recognizing the abject
failures of the Yemeni campaign, the
United Arab Emirates announced it
was ceasing its support and largely
withdrawing from Yemen. I commend
that as the right decision.
I do not doubt that Saudi Arabia and
the United Arab Emirates are con-
cerned about Iranian threats, but the
indisputable reality is that these preci-
sion-guided weapon kits were always
headed for this disastrous air war in
Yemen. So, again, let’s not delude our-
selves. These sales will in no way sup-
port Saudi Arabia or the United Arab
Emirates or the United States from an
imminent Iranian threat. Full stop.
Second, if we fail to override the
President’s veto, we will allow this ad-
ministration to transfer American jobs
and sensitive military technology to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29JY6.026 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5131
July 29, 2019
the Saudis. That is right. With this
sale, the Trump administration has au-
thorized Raytheon to allow the Saudis
to begin manufacturing part of the
electronic guidance system for these
precision-guided munitions. In other
words, the administration is not only
selling the Saudis these weapons but
also portions of the blueprints for
building these weapons.
This work has always and always
should be done by American workers
right here in the United States. Amer-
ica’s defense industry produces the
most sophisticated systems in the
world. Yet the Trump administration
is opening the door for the Saudis to
manufacture their own similar weap-
ons in the future or transfer our Amer-
ican-made technical know-how to
other countries.
Disturbingly, we also know that if
the Trump administration gets its way,
this transfer will not be a one-time
thing. State Department officials have
actually admitted to the Foreign Rela-
tions Committee staff that this will be
the first of many sales authorizing the
Saudis to manufacture even larger,
more sensitive portions of these highly
advanced weapons.
My colleagues, that is simply mad-
ness. Not only is this sale a Saudi jobs
program, but it is also a giveaway of
sensitive U.S. military technology. The
President’s own veto message claims
that not giving away American jobs
and sensitive military technology to
Saudi Arabia would ‘‘abandon’’ them. I
am guessing by ‘‘them,’’ he means the
royal family the President is intent on
praising and courting.
I ask my colleagues who oppose stop-
ping this sale or are thinking of allow-
ing the President’s veto to stand: Do
you want to be on record supporting a
Saudi jobs program? Do you want to be
on the record as aiding and abetting
the transfer of sensitive U.S. military
technology to Saudi Arabia, a source of
extremism and bloodshed in the world?
S.J. Res. 37 disapproves a sale of pre-
cision-guided munitions to the UAE at
a time when the UAE is pulling its
military forces out of Yemen. Yet the
President’s veto message says that
stopping this sale would somehow pro-
long the suffering in Yemen, which
goes against any logic with which I am
familiar.
S.J. Res. 38 disapproves a sale of
fuzes for Saudi bombs. Yet the Presi-
dent argues that stopping this sale will
again prolong the suffering of the inno-
cent in Yemen, presumably by denying
the Saudis the ability to target them
indiscriminately. It doesn’t make
sense.
Finally, I think all of my colleagues
can agree that the United States and
Saudi Arabia need a course correction.
The brutal murder of Jamal Khashoggi,
an American resident and journalist in
a Saudi consulate, may have been the
final, violent straw that broke the
camel’s back, but we must reexamine
this relationship. Beyond the
Khashoggi killing and the atrocities in
Yemen, the Saudi-led blockade of
Qatar and the ongoing rift within the
GCC are not in the interests of the
United States. The Saudis kidnapping
of the Lebanese Prime Minister is not
in the interest of the United States.
Finally, Saudi Arabia’s detention and
torture of human rights activists call-
ing for the same exact rights the
Crown Prince himself pretends to sup-
port—its suppression of dissent and
speech—this behavior does not reflect
American values or our long-term in-
terests.
My colleagues, America is better
than this. This Senate and this Con-
gress must continue to stand up for
reason, for decency, and for the actual
foreign policy and national security in-
terests of the United States—not the
personal interests of the Trump family
and their misguided willingness to put
profit over principle and profit over
people.
This administration’s willingness to
turn a blind eye to the wholesale
slaughter of civilians and the murder
of journalists and move forward with
the sale of these weapons will have a
lasting implication for America’s
moral leadership on the world stage.
That is why, 6 weeks ago, in a bipar-
tisan fashion, the Senate came to-
gether to approve an unprecedented 22
separate bipartisan resolutions of dis-
approval. That is why 5 weeks ago, the
Committee on Foreign Relations ap-
proved my bipartisan bill—the Saudi
Arabia False Emergencies, or SAFE
Act—to prevent similar abuses of emer-
gency authority in the future.
That is why, 3 weeks ago, the House
passed several amendments to their
National Defense Authorization Act to
stop these same arms sales, and, 2
weeks ago, the House passed three of
the Senate joint resolutions of dis-
approval and sent them to the Presi-
dent. It is the first time, since 1988,
that any such resolution has passed the
Congress, and it is the first time mul-
tiple resolutions of disapproval had
done so.
Finally, just last week, the Foreign
Relations Committee approved on a bi-
partisan vote the Saudi Arabia Ac-
countability and Yemen Act, legisla-
tion I introduced with Senators YOUNG,
MURPHY, GRAHAM, REED, COLLINS, and
SHAHEEN that would finally impose real
sanctions, including on arms sales, on
Saudi Arabia for its atrocities—legisla-
tion I hope Senator MCCONNELL will
swiftly bring to the floor.
I hope this administration appre-
ciates the gravity of these actions and
those to come.
Today we have an opportunity to
again demonstrate to the President,
the Secretary of State, and to the
butchers of Saudi Arabia that the U.S.
Senate will stand up for our values,
will stand up for our long-term na-
tional security interests, and will put
country over short-term business inter-
ests.
I urge my colleagues to take this
stand today, override these vetoes, and
stop the Saudi arms sales.
There are few days in this body
where we can say that our votes will
save lives. Today is such a day.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
rise today to address an important
issue, that the Secretary of State did
not comply with the law when he made
an emergency declaration on May 24 to
bypass the Congress and issue export
permission for 22 separate arms sales
to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab
Emirates. Because of this, a case can
be made that some or all of the export
licenses and the letters of offer are not
valid because they did not comply with
the Arms Export Control Act.
We have made clear in this body that
there is strong bipartisan opposition to
the President and Secretary of State’s
reckless disregard for the law, for com-
mon sense, for human rights, for basic
human decency, and even for our na-
tional security, when it comes to mat-
ters involving Saudi Arabia. We voted
to disapprove each and every one of
these 22 ‘‘emergency’’ sales, and I have
no doubt, we will continue to attempt
to correct the President’s self-serving
myopia on Saudi Arabia and its mur-
derous leadership.
But the Secretary of State’s failure
to comply with statutory obligations is
a serious matter that we cannot allow
to get lost in the bipartisan outcry
over the Secretary’s incredible conten-
tions that these sales respond to an
Iranian emergency. At the risk of los-
ing some in the minutia, let me briefly
lay out how the Secretary’s ‘‘emer-
gency’’ declaration fails to comply
with the basic requirements of the
emergency provisions in Arms Export
Control Act and degrades congressional
prerogatives.
The Secretary’s failure to comply
with the statute materially and ad-
versely impacts the Senate’s institu-
tional interests. It undermines the
clear and intentional statutory balance
between Congress and the executive
branch designed to govern individual
arms sales, and it impedes the Senate’s
ability to understand, conduct over-
sight, and respond to each sale. As laid
out below, in this instance, the blanket
approach taken with regard to these 22
sales demonstrates precisely why a
generalized determination and certifi-
cation is insufficient to protect the
Senate’s role in arms sales.
Mr. President, allow me to explain
further. The Secretary indicated that
he determined that, pursuant to sec-
tions 36(b)(1), (c)(2), and (d)(2), an emer-
gency exists that requires the imme-
diate sale of defense articles and serv-
ices to Saudi Arabia and UAE and
thereby purported to waive the con-
gressional review requirements for the
22 certifications. In support of this ac-
tion, the Secretary submitted only one
determination and one memorandum of
justification. The emergency authori-
ties cited above and upon which the
Secretary relies, however, do not allow
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29JY6.029 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5132 July 29, 2019
for a blanket determination and jus-
tification covering multiple certifi-
cations. Rather, these provisions re-
quire submission of a separate deter-
mination and justification for each in-
dividual emergency certification.
This requirement is clear from both
the structure and text of sections 36
(b), (c), and (d). For example, sub-
section (b)(l) mandates that the Presi-
dent submit an individual certification
for each letter of offer—‘‘before such
letter of offer is issued, the President
shall submit . . . a numbered certifi-
cation with respect to such offer
. . . .’’. The emergency authority
available to the President in (b)(1) is
similarly limited and may be exercised
only in relation to a specific letter of
offer covering a specific sale, with a
justification and determination re-
quired in each instance such authority
is exercised. The relevant statutory
references are only in the singular, and
not in the plural, leaving no doubt as
to what the law requires.
‘‘If the President states in his certifi-
cation that an emergency exists which
requires the proposed sale in the na-
tional security interest of the United
States, thus waiving the congressional
review requirements of this subsection,
he shall set forth in the certification a
detailed justification for his deter-
mination, including a description of
the emergency circumstances which
necessitate the immediate issuance of
the letter of offer and a discussion of
the national security interests in-
volved.’’
The structure and text of 36(c)(2) and
(d)(1) are analogous in requiring a spe-
cific determination and justification to
accompany each emergency certifi-
cation.
Mr. President, given the extraor-
dinary nature of the emergency au-
thority and the national security sen-
sitivities involved in arms sales, it is
not surprising that Congress did not
give the President blanket authority to
invoke an emergency and bypass Con-
gress. The requirement for a case-by-
case exercise of such authority pro-
tects congressional interests by ensur-
ing that the Senate has sufficient in-
formation on each sale to understand
the sale, conduct oversight, assess
whether use of the emergency author-
ity is consistent with the AECA, and
determine whether a resolution of dis-
approval is warranted.
The case-by-case approach set out in
the statute was designed to protect
against the very situation the Senate
faced as a result of the Secretary’s
blanket use of the emergency author-
ity to cover 22 sales at once. The Sec-
retary was abusing the emergency au-
thority by invoking it to cover sales
for which there is no actual emergency
need, e.g., the manufacture of F–18
fighter aircraft side panels in Saudi
Arabia for export outside the region,
when Saudi Araba doesn’t even own the
F–18. Further, the senior State Depart-
ment official responsible for arms
sales, Assistant Secretary of State R.
Clarke Cooper, reinforced this concern
in a briefings to Senate staff when he
cited justifications other than Iran for
the 22 sales, including the possible loss
of arms sales to China and Russia, the
need for ‘‘interoperability’’ of weapons
systems, maintaining credibility as a
reliable arms supplier, and supporting
the global supply chain for weapons
sales.
By lumping all 22 certifications to-
gether with only one determination
and justification, the Secretary sought
to mask obvious deficiencies in his po-
sition that there is an actual and
articulable emergency applicable to
each of the 22 sales. This tactic runs di-
rectly counter to senators’ ability to
conduct oversight and the body’s abil-
ity to consider resolutions of dis-
approval in an informed manner. Un-
fortunately, we must conclude that the
Secretary intentionally took this ap-
proach, given that he and the Depart-
ment were not forthcoming with the
Senate as a general matter in relation
to the 22 sales. For example, just 2 days
prior to the submission of the certifi-
cations, the Secretary briefed all Sen-
ators on the enhanced threat from Iran
and the steps the United States is tak-
ing to counter that threat, yet did not
mention the arms sales or pending
emergency certifications, which he
now justifies as necessary due to the
Iran threat. Other Iran briefings by the
administration similarly omitted this
issue. The view that the omissions
were purposeful is bolstered by official
confirmation from State that the deci-
sion to bypass Congress had been in the
works for months.
The Secretary’s failure to comply
with the statutory requirement for in-
dividualized justifications materially
and adversely impacted the Senate’s
institutional interests. It undermined
the clear and intentional statutory bal-
ance between Congress and the execu-
tive branch designed to govern indi-
vidual arms sales, and it impedes the
Senate’s ability to understand, conduct
oversight, and respond to each sale.
Second, Mr. President, one of the
statutory provisions that the Sec-
retary purports to use for these ‘‘emer-
gency’’ sales does not provide the Sec-
retary the very emergency authority
he claims. Article 36(c) of the Arms Ex-
port Control Act, which covers the di-
rect commercial sales at issue in 13 of
the 22 sales, allows for emergency sales
in very limited situations that do not
include sales to Saudi Arabia or the
UAE.
So let me be clear: To proceed under
an emergency basis for 13 of the 22
sales, the Secretary had to ignore the
plain language of the Arms Export
Control Act and simply assume he had
the power to do so. I have asked the
State Department on multiple occa-
sions their legal analysis of this provi-
sion—any legal analysis at all that
would support the Secretary’s author-
ity. To date, I have received none, not
even verbally. They simply do not want
to talk about it. It therefore seems
clear that they know that the Sec-
retary did not have the authority that
he claimed to use.
Mr. President, let me explain in fur-
ther detail. Section 36(c)(2) does not
provide statutory authority for emer-
gency certifications to Saudi Arabia
and the UAE. As a result, in each in-
stance in which the Secretary relies
solely on that subsection as the legal
basis for waiving congressional review,
the certification in question is invalid.
The Department has notified several
of the arms sales at issue pursuant to
section 36(c)(2). That subsection clearly
allows the President to bypass Con-
gress upon certification of an emer-
gency if the sale is to a NATO or other
close ally—NATO + 5: Australia, New
Zealand, Israel, Japan, and South
Korea, section 36(c)(2)(A)—or in rela-
tion to certain launches of commercial
communication satellites, section
36(c)(2)(B). That authority does not ex-
tend to 36(c)(2)(C), a ‘‘catch-all’’ provi-
sion that covers sales to all other coun-
tries including Saudi Arabia and UAE.
In fact, while the statute explicitly ref-
erences the NATO + 5 and satellite
launch emergency authority, it omits
(c)(2)(C), the catchall from the scope of
the emergency authority.
‘‘If the President states in his certifi-
cation that an emergency exists which
requires the proposed export in the na-
tional security interests of the United
States, thus waiving the requirements
of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this
paragraph, he shall set forth in the cer-
tification a detailed justification for
his determination, including a descrip-
tion of the emergency circumstances
which necessitate the immediate
issuance of the export license and a dis-
cussion of the national security inter-
ests involved.’’
Interpretation and application of sec-
tion 36(c)(2) should hew closely to the
plain text of the statute and give effect
to the omission of subsection (c)(2)(C).
Doing otherwise would entail reading
an extraordinary emergency power into
the text for subsection (c)(2)(C) where
none exists, which would be a depar-
ture from traditional canons of statu-
tory construction and would signifi-
cantly expand the President’s author-
ity under the AECA at the expense of
Congress. The statute should be inter-
preted and applied to afford extraor-
dinary emergency powers to the Presi-
dent only where the text clearly pro-
vides for such authority, and sub-
section (c)(2)(C) does not do so.
We note that, prior to a 2000 amend-
ment, section 36(c)(2) previously al-
lowed for emergency certifications in
relation to NATO + 5 and the catchall/
any other country category. The 2000
amendment added the provision deal-
ing with commercial satellites, new
36(c)(2)(B) and, at the same time, re-
moved the emergency authority from
the catchall, (formerly subsection
(c)(2)(B) and, post-2000, renumbered as
(c)(2)(C).
There is a strong policy rationale for
Congress to have acted in this manner.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29JY6.031 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5133
July 29, 2019
Section 36(c) governs direct commer-
cial sales, e.g., Raytheon to Saudi Ara-
bia, as opposed to government to gov-
ernment sales under 36(b)(1). In the
case of direct commercial sales, the ex-
ecutive branch has less insight and
control over the transaction than it
would if the U.S. Government were the
seller and engaged directly with a for-
eign government. It follows, then, that
Congress would be willing to allow ex-
traordinary emergency authority with
regard to NATO and a small set of our
closest allies and partners, as well as in
certain highly limited situations where
there is a direct commercial need—sat-
ellite launches. Given that level of con-
trol does not exist for direct commer-
cial sales, however, it also follows that
Congress had a powerful incentive to
narrow the scope of the emergency au-
thority so that it no longer authorized
the President to bypass congressional
review via a catchall applicable to al-
most every country in the world.
We have heard through the grapevine
that the Secretary’s position may be
that Congress screwed up in the 2000
amendment and neglected to clarify
that the emergency authorities contin-
ued to apply to the catch 11 category.
This counterargument is problematic
for several reasons. It ignores the plain
language of the statute; it presumes
congressional error where the presump-
tion should be that Congress knew
what it was doing and intended the re-
sult absent clear evidence of an error;
there is no contemporaneous docu-
mentation or statements of intent of
which we are aware that would cor-
roborate this counterargument; and it
serves only the interest of the execu-
tive branch at the expense and dimin-
ishment of Congress’ role in arms sales.
Furthermore, the Secretary has never
even made this argument to us, indi-
cating that even he does not believe it.
We are in dangerous territory, my
friends. The Secretary has moved for-
ward, seeking to eliminate Congress’s
role in arms sales, based on an extraor-
dinary emergency power that arguably
does not exist in statute and for which
he and his team have been unable or
unwilling to provide a serious legal ra-
tionale or any legal justification what-
soever. While his position may pass
muster with or even have been blessed
by the self-serving opinions we have
seen from the current Justice Depart-
ment, it is nothing more than an exec-
utive power grab at the expense of Con-
gress and unmoored from the law. It is
our responsibility, through these reso-
lutions, to send the clear message that
the United States Senate rejects this
lawless approach.
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, tonight
we will consider overriding Presi-
dential vetoes to S.J. Res. 28 through
48, resolutions regarding arms sales
that were the subject of a May 24 emer-
gency declaration from the Secretary
of State. I urge my colleagues to sus-
tain these vetoes, and to consider these
sales on their own merits.
I noted several key points when ad-
dressing these sales last month, and
those points remain valid today. This
emergency declaration was legal, and
the sales are necessary for the legiti-
mate security interests of our partners.
Rejecting these sales at this time will
reward recent Iranian aggression and
risk Iranian miscalculation, which will
lead to disaster if Iran continues down
its current path. These sales are unre-
lated to Jamal Khashoggi, and these
resolutions will do nothing to achieve
much-needed accountability for his
murder or to otherwise change Saudi
behavior.
We have discussed at length in recent
weeks the history of Presidential emer-
gency authorities and the fact that
Presidents of both parties have used
such authorities on four previous occa-
sions. I won’t repeat that discussion
other than to note that this use of the
authority is consistent with historical
precedent. I will also emphasize that
the administration has since returned
to standard practice for arms sales, has
stated that this declaration was a one-
time event, and has committed to re-
specting the law and the role of Con-
gress in this process. I expect them to
honor that commitment.
We have also talked about the rea-
sons our partners need the capabilities
in these sales. Our partners have an ob-
ligation to protect the lives of their
citizens and their own national inter-
ests. These sales provide critical capa-
bilities for such protection. Their need
for these capabilities has only grown in
the last month, as Iran and its proxies
have grown even more aggressive.
As it has escalated its use of force,
Iran has so far avoided the type of
provocation that would demand a U.S.
response. Neither the President, nor
Congress, nor the American people
want war, but Iran’s actions and public
statements remain separated from re-
ality. Iran appears eager to continue to
test American resolve. Iran should not
mistake President Trump’s reasonable
restraint as an indicator of any hesi-
tation on his part to protect U.S. lives
and interests. We, as the Senate,
should not add to any possible confu-
sion. If we adopt these resolutions, we
risk inadvertently encouraging Iranian
miscalculation.
I remain highly concerned with the
humanitarian crisis in Yemen, the dev-
astating impact of the war on Yemeni
civilians, and the terrible human rights
record of the Saudi Government. I am
encouraged by the recent Emirati deci-
sion to end their involvement in the
war in Yemen, and I encourage others
to see this as an opportunity to pursue
a political solution for a peaceful set-
tlement.
I know many of my colleagues see
these resolutions and similar legisla-
tion as a means to send a message to
the Saudi Government. I fear, however,
that the message the Saudis receive
will not be the one intended. So let me
take this opportunity to say to our
Saudi partners that they must change
their policies on human rights.
I will close by reemphasizing my key
points. The emergency declaration was
legal, and the sales are needed for the
legitimate defense requirements of our
partners. This vote also invites Iranian
miscalculation. I urge my colleagues to
sustain the President’s veto.
Mr. MENENDEZ. I yield the floor.
VOTE ON S.J. RES. 36—VETO
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Shall the joint resolution,
S.J. Res. 36, pass, the objections of the
President of the United States to the
contrary notwithstanding?
The yeas and nays are required.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY), the Sen-
ator from Texas (Mr. CRUZ), the Sen-
ator from Colorado (Mr. GARDNER), the
Senator from South Carolina (Mr. GRA-
HAM), the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
ISAKSON), the Senator from Kentucky
(Mr. PAUL), the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. PERDUE), the Senator from Ne-
braska (Mr. SASSE), and the Senator
from Alaska (Mr. SULLIVAN).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Texas (Mr. CRUZ) would
have voted ‘‘Nay’’.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that Sen-
ator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET), the
Senator from Illinois (Ms. DUCKWORTH),
the Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND), the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Sen-
ator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and
the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms.
WARREN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 45,
nays 40, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 231 Leg.]
YEAS—45
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
Young
NAYS—40
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
McConnell
McSally
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
NOT VOTING—15
Bennet
Cruz
Duckworth
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Paul
Perdue
Sanders
Sasse
Sullivan
Warren
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29JY6.032 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5134 July 29, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 45, the nays are 40.
Two-thirds of the Senators voting or
voting present not having voted in the
affirmative, the joint resolution on re-
consideration fails to pass over the
veto of the President of the United
States.
The majority leader.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing rule XXII, following the clo-
ture vote on the Liburdi nomination,
the Senate vote on the cloture motion
on the Welte nomination; I further ask
consent that if cloture is invoked, the
Senate vote on the confirmations of
these nominations in the order listed
at 11:30 a.m., on Tuesday, July 30, and
that if confirmed, the motions to re-
consider be considered made and laid
on the table and the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tions.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the re-
maining votes in this series be 10 min-
utes in length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
VOTE ON VETO OF S.J. RES. 37
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Shall S.J. Res. 37 pass, the
objections of the President of the
United States to the contrary notwith-
standing?
The yeas and nays are required.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Idaho (Mr. CRAPO), the Senator
from Texas (Mr. CRUZ), the Senator
from Colorado (Mr. GARDNER), the Sen-
ator from South Carolina (Mr. GRA-
HAM), the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
ISAKSON), the Senator from Kentucky
(Mr. PAUL), the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. PERDUE), the Senator from Ne-
braska (Mr. SASSE), and the Senator
from Alaska (Mr. SULLIVAN).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Texas (Mr. CRUZ) would
have voted ‘‘nay,’’ the Senator from
Colorado (Mr. GARDNER) would have
voted ‘‘nay,’’ the Senator from South
Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM) would have
voted ‘‘yea,’’ the Senator from Ne-
braska (Mr. SASSE) would have voted
‘‘nay.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH), the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator
from California (Ms. HARRIS), the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), and the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 45,
nays 39, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 232 Leg.]
YEAS—45
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
Young
NAYS—39
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
McConnell
McSally
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
NOT VOTING—16
Bennet
Crapo
Cruz
Duckworth
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Paul
Perdue
Sanders
Sasse
Sullivan
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 45, the nays are 39.
Two-thirds of the Senators voting, a
quorum being present, not having
voted in the affirmative, the bill on re-
consideration fails to pass over the
veto of the President of the United
States.
VOTE ON S.J. RES. 38—VETO
The question is, Shall S.J. Res. 38
pass, the objections of the President of
the United States to the contrary not-
withstanding?
The yeas and nays are required.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY), the Sen-
ator from Idaho (Mr. CRAPO), the Sen-
ator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON), the
Senator from Kentucky (Mr. PAUL), the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. PERDUE),
and the Senator from Alaska (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNETT),
the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH), the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator
from California (Ms. HARRIS), the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), and the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 46,
nays 41, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 233 Leg.]
YEAS—46
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Durbin
Feinstein
Graham
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
Young
NAYS—41
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
McConnell
McSally
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
NOT VOTING—13
Bennet
Cassidy
Crapo
Duckworth
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Paul
Perdue
Sanders
Sullivan
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 46, the nays are 41.
Two-thirds of the Senators voting
not having voted in the affirmative,
the bill on reconsideration fails to pass
over the veto of the President of the
United States.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Michael T. Liburdi, of Arizona, to
be United States District Judge for the Dis-
trict of Arizona.
James Inhofe, John Hoeven, Mike
Rounds, Joni Ernst, Kevin Cramer, Ben
Sasse, Pat Roberts, John Boozman,
Mike Crapo, Steve Daines, John Cor-
nyn, James E. Risch, Roger F. Wicker,
Richard Burr, Thom Tillis, Roy Blunt,
Mitch McConnell.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Michael T. Liburdi, of Arizona, to be
United States District Judge for the
District of Arizona, shall be brought to
a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:09 Sep 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JULY\S29JY9.REC S29JY9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5135
July 29, 2019
from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY), the Sen-
ator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON), the
Senator from Kentucky (Mr. PAUL), the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. PERDUE),
and the Senator from Alaska (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH), the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator
from California (Ms. HARRIS), the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), and the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 51,
nays 37, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 234 Ex.]
YEAS—51
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—37
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—12
Bennet
Cassidy
Duckworth
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Paul
Perdue
Sanders
Sullivan
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 51, the nays are 37.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Peter D. Welte, of North Dakota,
to be United States District Judge for the
District of North Dakota.
Mitch McConnell, Kevin Cramer, Mike
Crapo, John Kennedy, Thom Tillis,
Richard Shelby, James Inhofe, Rob
Portman, Johnny Isakson, John Thune,
John Boozman, Marco Rubio, Cory
Gardner, Steve Daines, Pat Roberts,
Lindsey Graham, John Hoeven.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Peter D. Welte, of North Dakota, to
be United States District Judge for the
District of North Dakota, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY), the Sen-
ator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON), the
Senator from Kentucky (Mr. PAUL), the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. PERDUE),
and the Senator from Alaska (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH), the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator
from California (Ms. HARRIS), the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), and the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 66,
nays 21, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 235 Ex.]
YEAS—66
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Carper
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Peters
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Warner
Wicker
Young
NAYS—21
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Casey
Heinrich
Hirono
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Reed
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Udall
Van Hollen
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—13
Bennet
Booker
Cassidy
Duckworth
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Paul
Perdue
Sanders
Sullivan
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote the yeas are 66, the nays are 21.
The motion is agreed to.
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Peter D. Welte, of North Da-
kota, to be United States District
Judge for the District of North Dakota.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). The Senator from Indiana.
INFRASTRUCTURE
Mr. BRAUN. Mr. President, I rise
today to congratulate Chairman BAR-
RASSO and Ranking Member CARPER on
their introduction of the EPW Commit-
tee’s 5-year infrastructure bill, the
America’s highway infrastructure act.
Back in Indiana, as a member of the
State Legislature, in 2017 we did what
some States are doing and many
haven’t yet. We actually did a long-
term road funding and bridge infra-
structure bill. As a Main Street entre-
preneur there in just my third year in
the State Legislature, we accomplished
things that nobody said could get done,
because we made the case that for the
crossroads of America, we needed to
make sure our roads and bridges were
going to be there in safe shape for fu-
ture generations.
No matter where I go, I hear almost
everyone unanimously wanting better
roads and bridges. Ironically, even in a
State like the Hoosier State, 70 percent
of constituents wanted better roads but
didn’t want their taxes to go up. We
had to make the case—and it wasn’t
hard for me to do as a fiscal conserv-
ative—that if you are in a State like
Indiana and your comparative advan-
tage is the crossroads of America, why
wouldn’t you want a tangible asset to
be in good shape that everyone can
enjoy?
We also did it from a position of
strength. We run a balanced budget,
generally with a surplus every year,
and we passed a balance budget amend-
ment. So it was not difficult to talk
about investing in the future when you
were doing it from a position of
strength. In fact, this last year, we had
almost a $400 million surplus and a
cash balance of over $2 billion.
Wouldn’t it be nice if this place worked
like that?
The bill introduced provides $287 bil-
lion to fix the Nation’s aging roads and
bridges—more than any bill in history.
It includes new safety programs to
incentivize States to lower fatalities of
drivers and pedestrians. It codifies key
elements of President Trump’s ‘‘One
Federal Decision’’ to cut redtape and
to reduce the time that road projects
spend in the permitting line. It in-
structs Federal highways to address re-
siliency, making sure that when a road
is damaged by a natural disaster, we
rebuild it with modern technology that
will prevent similar damage in the fu-
ture.
Most importantly, it contains incen-
tives to urge States to put more skin
in the game, just like we did in Indi-
ana, taking ownership of their own in-
frastructure and making sure that in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29JY6.029 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5136 July 29, 2019
States where balance sheets are clean
and economies are healthy, they don’t
look to the Federal Government to
lead on it and they lead themselves.
This bill contains a proposal I intro-
duced last week called the Crossroads
of America Act, to provide $150 million
that will be competitively awarded to
States that will bid for the highest
State match for Federal dollars. This
concept worked for us in Indiana. We
called it the Community Crossings Pro-
gram, and within 1 or 2 years, even
after there was much complaining by
cities and counties, it is oversub-
scribed. Instead of sitting on the side-
lines, Indiana communities started to
bid up their matches and asking for
less State money through the program.
Wouldn’t it be nice if we had something
like that here to stretch the Federal
dollar?
It means that the State could ap-
prove a greater number of projects,
which we have done now into the third
year. More projects are being built.
More concrete is being poured. More
steel is being framed. And more Hoo-
siers are on the job. This is why this
program is so important.
Combined, the America’s highway in-
frastructure act will allow more
projects to break ground, like our I–69
bridge over the Ohio River, linking
northern Kentucky to southern Indi-
ana. The EPW bill will speed up the
permitting process and provide funding
opportunities to a project that has
been in the works for more than 15
years.
Over the next several weeks, we will
continue our robust committee work,
starting with a markup of the chair-
man’s bill tomorrow in EPW. In com-
mittee, I will stress the importance of
fully paying for this 5-year bill—again,
unlike we do most things here—and
putting the highway trust fund on a
pathway to long-term solvency.
We are also going to be considering a
budget bill, and for all the reasons that
we know, the Federal Government
should be there for its own citizens, its
stakeholders, including infrastructure.
We need to make sure, regardless of
what happens to this budget bill, that
in the long run we start balancing our
own budget and that we quit borrowing
from future generations and kicking
this stuff down the road. Hopefully,
this infrastructure bill will be the be-
ginning of it.
Over 37 years of building a business
in my hometown, one principle I have
always lived by is this: When times are
good, you create a rainy day fund, you
pay back what you might have bor-
rowed, and you sacrifice in the short
run for long-term prosperity. Until we
get back into that mentality here—
whether its infrastructure, shoring up
entitlements, or whatever people de-
pend on the Federal Government to
do—we are not going to be there for
our own citizens.
Today, that changes with the intro-
duction of America’s highway infra-
structure act. We are beginning to put
our Nation’s highway system on a path
of long-term solvency. The alternative,
I am afraid, is another unfunded short-
term reauthorization of the highway
trust fund. Such a path would be irre-
sponsible, especially after the highway
bill comes out of committee this week.
We must continue investing in our
Nation’s infrastructure. We must
incentivize States to get more in-
volved, and we must fully offset our
spending and put the highway trust
fund on a responsible path to long-term
solvency. That is one of the critical ob-
ligations facing this Congress.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate majority leader.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
NOMINATION OF JOSEPH V.
CUFFARI
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, view-
ing the awful conditions at DHS deten-
tion facilities in Texas crystalized my
belief that continued tough, inde-
pendent oversight and accountability
from Congress and Homeland Security
inspector general is imperative to
change the deplorable treatment of mi-
grants. That is why I pushed Mr.
Cuffari to make two critical commit-
ments.
First, the Inspector General’s Office
must continue frequent and unan-
nounced inspections of CBP and ICE
immigration detention facilities, and
second, he must strongly rebuff any at-
tempts by the Acting DHS Secretary,
Director of Citizenship and Immigra-
tion Services, Acting Commissioner of
CBP. or the White House to limit the
inspector general’s independence or
ability to follow the facts of investiga-
tions wherever they lead.
The horrid treatment of children and
families is the direct result of Presi-
dent Trump’s policies, and we Demo-
crats are committed to holding the
Trump administration accountable. If
confirmed, I fully expect Mr. Cuffari to
live up to the personal commitments
he made to me.
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, in ac-
cordance with rule 23 of the Rules of
Procedure of the Committee on Rules
and Administration and pursuant to
the Congressional Accountability Act
of 1995 Reform Act, on July 25, 2019, the
committee adopted the U.S. Senate
Congressional Accountability Act of
1995 Reform Act Regulations.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that this material be printed in
the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
U.S. SENATE CONGRESSIONAL ACCOUNTABILITY
ACT OF 1995 REFORM ACT REGULATIONS
ADOPTED BY THE COMMITTEE ON RULES AND
ADMINISTRATION ON JULY 25, 2019
1.0 Reporting by the Office.
1.1 Annual Report Required. The Office
shall prepare and submit to Congress, and
publish on the public website of the Office,
an annual report regarding covered pay-
ments.
1.2 Contents of Report. With regard to any
employing office for which a covered pay-
ment was made in the reporting period, the
report shall include—
1.2.1 except as otherwise provided in sec-
tion 1.3, the amount of any covered payment
made in the previous calendar year;
1.2.2 except as otherwise provided in sec-
tion 1.3, the reimbursable portion of any cov-
ered payment made in the previous calendar
year, if any;
1.2.3 information on the employing office;
1.2.4 each provision of part A of title II of
the Congressional Accountability Act that
was the subject of a claim resulting in any
covered payment; and
1.2.5 in the case of a reimbursable portion
of any covered payment, an acknowledge-
ment of whether the Senator or former Sen-
ator has made no reimbursement, partial re-
imbursement or complete reimbursement in
compliance with the requirement of section
415(d) of the Act to reimburse the account.
1.3 Reporting Periods and Dates. The re-
porting under this section—
1.3.1 for 2019, shall be submitted by the
270th day after the date of enactment of the
Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 Re-
form Act and shall include any covered pay-
ments made in calendar year 2019 as of date
of the report;
1.3.2 for 2020, shall be submitted by Janu-
ary 31, 2020, and shall reflect covered pay-
ments made in calendar year 2019 and not
previously reported; and
1.3.3 for each subsequent year, shall be sub-
mitted by January 31 of that year and shall
reflect covered payments made in the pre-
vious calendar year.
2.0 Reimbursement by Senators of
Amounts Paid as Settlements and Awards.
2.1 Initial Notice. Within 5 business days of
a covered payment that includes a reimburs-
able portion of any covered payment, the Of-
fice shall provide written notice to the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration and the
Senator or former Senator who has an obli-
gation under section 415(d) of the Act to re-
imburse the account for the reimbursable
portion of any covered payment of the date
the covered payment was made and the
amount of the reimbursable portion of any
covered payment.
2.2 Agreement to Reimburse.
2.2.1 Within 30 days of a covered payment,
the Senator shall submit a written agree-
ment to the Office specifying the manner in
which the Senator will reimburse the ac-
count for the reimbursable portion of any
covered payment.
2.2.2 The agreement to reimburse shall des-
ignate—
2.2.2.A amounts payable through payments
directly from the Senator, withholding from
the Senator’s compensation and transfers
from the Senator’s Thrift Savings Fund; and
2.2.2.B the timing of those payments, con-
sistent with the Congressional Account-
ability Act of 1995 and subsection 2.2.3 of
these regulations.
2.2.3 All payments under the agreement to
reimburse must be made within 270 days of
the covered payment.
2.3 Notice of Agreement. Within 2 business
days of submission of the agreement to reim-
burse, the Office shall provide a copy of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29JY6.040 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5137
July 29, 2019
agreement to reimburse to the Committee on
Rules and Administration and, if the agree-
ment specifies withholding, the Senate Dis-
bursing Office.
2.4 Failure to Enter into Agreement to Re-
imburse.
2.4.1 Should a Senator fail to enter into an
agreement to reimburse within 30 days of the
covered payment, the Office shall notify the
Committee on Rules and Administration and
the Senate Disbursing Office within 2 busi-
ness days.
2.4.2 After receiving notice pursuant to
subsection 2.4.1, the Committee on Rules and
Administration, the Senate Disbursing Of-
fice and the Office shall determine a reim-
bursement schedule for the Senator within 60
days of the covered payment.
2.4.3 The Office shall provide a copy of the
reimbursement schedule to the Senator
within 2 business days.
2.5 Changes to Reimbursement Agreement.
Nothing in these regulations shall prohibit a
Senator from making additional reimburse-
ment payments. If the Office receives addi-
tional reimbursement payments from a Sen-
ator, the Office shall adjust the agreement to
reimburse and provide notice pursuant to
section 2.3.
2.6 Garnishment or Other Collection of
Wages. Pursuant to section 415(d)(4) of the
Act, at the expiration of the 270-day period
which begins on the date of the covered pay-
ment, the Office shall transfer any remain-
ing reimbursable amounts to the Secretary
of the Treasury for garnishment or other col-
lection of wages as permitted by the Act.
2.7 Final Disposition of Reimbursement.
The Office shall provide the Committee on
Rules and Administration with a copy of the
certification that reimbursement is com-
plete pursuant to the Act, or a copy of the
transfer to the Secretary of Treasury under
section 2.6.
3.0 Definitions.
For the purposes of these Regulations, the
following terms shall have the meaning spec-
ified—
3.1 Account. The term ‘‘account’’ refers to
the account described in section 415(a) of the
Act.
3.2 Act. The term ‘‘Act’’ refers to the Con-
gressional Accountability Act of 1995.
3.3 Covered Payment. The term ‘‘covered
payment’’ refers to a payment from the ac-
count that was the result of claims alleging
a violation of part A of title II of the Act.
3.4 Employing Office. The term ‘‘employing
office’’ refers to any Senate office described
in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of section
101(a)(9) of the Act.
3.5 Information on the Employing Office.
The term ‘‘information on the employing of-
fice’’ refers to, in the case of an award or in
the case of a settlement where reimburse-
ment is required under section 416(d)(3)(C) of
the Act, the name of the employing office. In
the case of a settlement where reimburse-
ment is not required under section
416(d)(3)(C) of the Act, ‘‘information on the
employing office’’ refers to the employing of-
fice as described in subparagraphs (A) though
(C) of section 101(a)(9) of the Act.
3.6 Office. The term ‘‘Office’’ refers to the
Office of Congressional Workplace Rights.
3.7 Reimbursable Portion of any Covered
Payment. The term ‘‘reimbursable portion of
any covered payment’’ refers to the portion
of a covered payment for which a Senator is
required to reimburse the account pursuant
to section 415(d)(1) of the Act.
f
TRIBUTE TO DICK HISER
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, today I am
pleased to recognize Dick Hiser, who is
being inducted into the Wyoming Agri-
culture Hall of Fame. Every year since
1992, Wyoming has recognized individ-
uals who have made substantial con-
tributions to agriculture in our great
state. With nearly 60 years of involve-
ment in the agriculture community in
Wyoming and beyond, Mr. Hiser is well
deserving of this honor.
A native of Saratoga, WY, Mr. Hiser
spent the early portion of his career
working for the University of Wyoming
as an extension agent in Carbon Coun-
ty. During his time in this position,
Mr. Hiser led the Wyoming 4-H pro-
gram in Carbon County to much suc-
cess. He was critical in helping Carbon
County students succeed, encouraging
their efforts in everything from judg-
ing livestock to earning valuable aca-
demic scholarships. He is remembered
by many in Wyoming that participated
in the 4-H program for always being
willing to share his knowledge and ex-
perience with the younger generation
so they could be successful on their
own journeys in the agriculture indus-
try and beyond.
Fortunately for Wyoming, Mr.
Hiser’s contributions include not only
his unwavering commitment to youth
programs, but Wyoming’s ranching
community as well. Many know him
for his stalwart commitment to sus-
tainable and high-quality cattle and re-
maining true to his three qoals: ensur-
ing cattle were functional in their en-
vironment, structurally sound to com-
pete in the marketplace, and would
grade well once prepared for final sale.
This commitment to Wyoming’s agri-
culture community was reflected in
Mr. Hiser’s many successes in national
cattle shows like the National Western
Stock Show and the Arizona National
Livestock Show. He has also been rec-
ognized as an outstanding alumni of
the University of Wyoming College of
Agriculture and is honored in the Car-
bon County 4-H Hall Of Fame. Mr.
Hiser has dedicated much of his time to
agriculture interest groups across the
State, including the Wyoming Live-
stock Board, Wyoming Beef Council,
Wyoming Stock Growers Association,
and Wyoming State Board of Veteri-
nary Medicine.
In addition to his tremendous con-
tributions to the agriculture, edu-
cation, and 4-H communities in Wyo-
ming, Mr. Hiser showed what it means
to be a truly upstanding member of the
community while serving as a Carbon
County commissioner.
Mr. Hiser’s values, dedication, and
work ethic exemplify the Wyoming
way of life. I want to extend my con-
gratulations to Mr. Hiser and thank
him for his service and years of hard
work. Mr. Hiser truly lives the Code of
the West, and I am proud to have the
opportunity to recognize his achieve-
ments as an inductee into the Wyo-
ming Agriculture Hall of Fame. Wyo-
ming is well served by his lasting and
continuing contributions to our great
State.
TRIBUTE TO JIM WILSON
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, each
year, I come to the floor to recognize
someone from Wyoming whose com-
mitment and service have made a real
and lasting difference to the State’s ag-
ricultural community. This year, I
would like to tell you about Jim Wil-
son.
Many people know Jim as a rancher.
Together with his wife Terry and his
daughter Billie Jo and her family, Jim
raises high-quality Wyoming beef in
Hot Springs County. If you ask Jim,
however, he will tell you he works to
grow better grass to grow better beef.
Like his mother and father, Willard
and Maycle, before him, Jim and his
wife have built a thriving operation
that sets the bar high for other Wyo-
ming producers.
Most people know that Jim wears
many other hats too. After developing
a strong herd of Saler-cross beef cattle,
Jim went on to lead the national breed
association. He served for a decade on
the Hot Springs County Hospital
Board, was part of the Wyoming Live-
stock board at a pivotal time for the
State, and has spent countless hours
leading meetings for local agricultural
and conservation district groups. His
work has not gone unnoticed. The list
of awards recognizing the Wilson fam-
ily and their incredible stewardship of
Wyoming’s precious natural resources
is long, and the awards are widely var-
ied. Jim has spent his life improving
water, soil, forage, and genetics for the
future.
Not all of the accolades, however, be-
long solely to Jim. For many years,
Jim has supported and mentored young
people across the State to learn, live,
and grow in their agricultural pursuits.
He has inspired many and has watched
them achieve great success. Like his
father, Willard, Jim volunteers to
judge at county fairs and encourages
young producers to be engaged in State
associations. Put simply, Jim is a men-
tor who leads by example.
When he served as president of the
Wyoming Stock Growers Association,
Jim kept his sights set firmly on the
future. As the association approached
its 150-year anniversary, Jim knew the
association would soon be in the hands
of the next generation of producers. He
worked to draw younger producers in
to build an association that combines
experience and innovation to make the
association stronger. When Jim’s presi-
dency concluded, he became chairman
of the 150th anniversary campaign that
sought to raise $1.5 million before 2022.
We all know that, when Jim Wilson
sets his sights on something, he cul-
tivates and leads an unstoppable team
to get the job done.
Working in agriculture is not simply
a job. It is a vocation, a way of life, a
calling for which Jim, his wife Terry,
their daughter and her family are in-
credibly effective ambassadors. They
share their struggles and their vic-
tories, they look for creative solutions,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29JY6.037 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5138 July 29, 2019
and they inspire others to act purpose-
fully. They know there is a better fu-
ture ahead, as long as good people are
willing to put in the work to make it
happen. There is no question Jim has
put in the work.
In a few short days, Jim Wilson will
be honored as one of the 2019 inductees
to the Wyoming Agriculture Hall of
Fame. He joins the elite ranks of other
incredible individuals who have forever
changed the future of this way of life in
the great State of Wyoming. Thea
Nuckolls said it best when she said her
late husband JW ‘‘saw Jim as a model
of integrity, having a spirit of gen-
erosity, the heart of humility, and a
devoted family man.’’
It is with great appreciation and
honor that I rise today to recognize the
incredible contributions of Jim Wilson.
My wife Bobbi joins me in congratu-
lating Jim and his family on this well-
deserved honor.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
SESQUICENTENNIAL OF MCKENZIE,
TENNESSEE
∑ Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
rise today to acknowledge and honor
the city of McKenzie, Tennessee’s ses-
quicentennial anniversary.
McKenzie has come a long way since
her first settlers followed the Natchez
Trace to the tall grasses and fertile soil
of western Tennessee’s ‘‘Barren
Lands.’’ What started as a cluster of
fiercely competitive trading posts
flourished into a bustling center of
commerce with the arrival of the area’s
first railroads. The city withstood fam-
ily rivalry, natural disasters, and the
ravages of the Civil War, until it was
finally incorporated by the State of
Tennessee on January 22, 1869.
Today, the roads are paved, and cat-
tle no longer roam the city square, but
McKenzie’s residents still live and
work with the same inimitable volun-
teer spirit as those who fought for
their homes and livelihoods through
two great fires, a yellow fever epi-
demic, and the Great Depression.
Congratulations to the Honorable
Jill Holland, Mayor of McKenzie, the
members of the McKenzie City Council,
and most importantly, the people of
McKenzie. I ask my colleagues to join
with me in wishing them 150 more
years of progress and prosperity.∑
f
RECOGNIZING THE URBAN
AFFAIRS COALITION
∑ Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I wish to
celebrate the Urban Affairs Coalition
in recognition of their 50th anniver-
sary. Founded in 1969 as the Philadel-
phia Urban Coalition, the Urban Af-
fairs Coalition works tirelessly to
tackle a number of diverse issues that
immediately affect communities
throughout the Greater Philadelphia
Region.
A robust group of organizations, the
Philadelphia Urban Coalition was
founded after the assassination of Rev-
erend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., with
the goal of solving their communities’
social and economic problems. In 1991,
the group merged with the Urban Af-
fairs Partnership to create the Greater
Philadelphia Urban Affairs Coalition
and in 2010 shortened the name to the
Urban Affairs Coalition. They have
managed over $1 billion of social in-
vestment since their founding.
Today, the Urban Affairs Coalition
consists of over 75 organizations work-
ing to achieve unity among govern-
ment, business, neighborhood, and indi-
vidual initiatives to improve the qual-
ity of life in the region, build wealth in
urban communities, and solve emerg-
ing issues. The coalition works towards
this mission in three different ways:
backing nonprofits through fiscal spon-
sorship, capacity building, and profes-
sional development; working to im-
prove life chances for the youth and
young adults; and providing economic
opportunity to low-income households,
working families, and disadvantaged
businesses.
Through their extensive work, the
Urban Affairs Coalition helps children
and young adults climb the economic
ladder, educates the community on job
opportunities and financial advice, and
provides access to capital for minority
entrepreneurs. The coalition is com-
mitted to supporting nonprofits by
helping them run backroom operations,
allowing nonprofits to focus on public
service.
In addition to helping their commu-
nity, the Urban Affairs Coalition recog-
nizes local leaders at their annual ban-
quet. They present the Doer Award, the
Living Legacy Award, and the Commu-
nity Leadership Award to those who
make efforts to improve and support
their communities. The Urban Affairs
Coalition consistently looks to form
new partnerships and is working to
raise $1 million in the 2020 fiscal year
to create a UAC Legacy Fund, which
will further support educational and
charitable activities.
Additionally, I wish to commend Ms.
Sharmain Matlock-Turner, the presi-
dent and chief executive officer of the
Urban Affairs Coalition. This year
marks Ms. Matlock-Turner’s 20th anni-
versary in her role. She also serves as
the cofounder and chair of the West
Oak Lane Charter School, a school in
Northwest Philadelphia where 92 per-
cent of students are eligible for free or
reduced-price lunches. West Oak Lane
prides itself on strong ties with higher
education organizations. These rela-
tionships begin by focusing on edu-
cating the next generation of
innovators. Ms. Matlock-Turner was
one of three Philadelphia leaders to
win a scholarship to Harvard Business
School’s Nonprofit Leaders’ Summer
Program in 2005, and she has since won
awards from CASA Philadelphia, the
American Red Cross, and many other
organizations.
The work of the Urban Affairs Coali-
tion and Ms. Matlock-Turner have been
crucial to providing countless children
and young adults a fighting chance at
a brighter future. Community improve-
ment is their continuing mission, and I
thank them for their hard work on be-
half of Pennsylvanians. I wish them
the best of luck on their future ef-
forts.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO THOMAS PENLEY
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of congratu-
lating Thomas Penley of Helena, MT,
for his hard work representing Mon-
tana at the 2019 meeting of Boys Na-
tion.
The process to be a delegate at Boys
Nation is highly competitive, with only
a few students per high school allowed
to receive a nomination. Mr. Penley
successfully earned a nomination to at-
tend the Montana Boys State meeting
at Carrol College in Helena. At this
meeting, Mr. Penley was one of the two
attendees selected by the conference to
represent Montana at the national
meeting.
Mr. Penley’s achievements do not
stop at his nomination to be part of the
Montana delegation at the Boys Nation
meeting. At the assembly, Mr. Penley
was elected by his peers to serve as
vice president of the session. This tre-
mendous honor speaks volumes to Mr.
Penley’s work ethic and leadership. In
the 73 years of Boys Nation, only one
other time has a Montanan been elect-
ed vice president.
I am proud to recognize Mr. Penley
for his continued success and wish him
the best. I look forward to following all
the future accomplishments Mr. Penley
will achieve.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO JIM TUFTS
∑ Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, today I
would like to congratulate Mr. Jim
Tufts of Exeter, NH, on his retirement,
after his long, productive, and
impactful career of making a difference
for young people and their families
throughout our region and country.
After graduating from the University
of New Hampshire, Jim spent 2 years as
an assistant coach at Winnacunnet
High School in Hampton, NH. In 1977,
he joined Exeter High School as the
physical education teacher and varsity
head coach of both the boys soccer and
hockey teams.
Jim has coached over 1,650 games,
and his teams have accumulated al-
most 1,000 career wins and won a com-
bined eight New Hampshire Inter-
scholastic Athletic Association,
NHIAA championships. He has also
served as chairman of the Physical
Education Department at Philips Exe-
ter Academy for the summer school
program. In 1988 he became the coach
and local program coordinator of the
Exeter Area Athletes and runs the
Learn to Play Hockey Program to in-
troduce hundreds of young people to
ice hockey.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29JY6.036 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5139
July 29, 2019
For 50 years, Jim has volunteered
with the New Hampshire Special Olym-
pics, which was first organized in the
State in 1970 by his mother, Jean Tufts.
He has served as the director of the Ex-
eter Special Olympics Program for 32
years, and in 2003 he was named Special
Olympics Coach of the Year by the Na-
tional High School Athletic Coaches
Association. Jim has organized stu-
dents from Exeter High School and sur-
rounding high schools to get involved
as peer coaches for the athletes, mak-
ing the Exeter Special Olympics an in-
credible community event.
It is Jim’s devotion to Special Olym-
pics athletes—and the example he has
set for the athletes he coaches in all of
his different roles—that has made a
unique and life changing difference for
thousands of young people and their
families.
Jim, accompanied and guided by his
wife, Leslie, and sons, Matt and Kyle,
has been a tremendous asset to Exeter
High School and to the entire Seacoast
region. He has given back to his com-
munity in countless ways with humil-
ity and an exceptionally positive atti-
tude. Jim has taught all of us that tal-
ent and compassion, strength and kind-
ness, go hand in hand. His town, State,
and country are better because of his
example.
Mr. President, I hope you will join
me in honoring a dedicated Granite
Stater, Jim Tufts.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on July 26, 2019,
during the adjournment of the Senate,
received a message from the House of
Representatives announcing that the
Speaker had signed the following en-
rolled bill:
S. 504. An act to amend title 36, United
States Code, to authorize The American Le-
gion to determine the requirements for
membership in The American Legion, and for
other purposes.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on July 26, 2019,
during the adjournment of the Senate,
received a message from the House of
Representatives announcing that the
Speaker had signed the following en-
rolled bills:
H.R. 1569. An act to amend title 28, United
States Code, to add Flagstaff and Yuma to
the list of locations in which court shall be
held in the judicial district for the State of
Arizona.
H.R. 2196. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to reduce the credit hour re-
quirement for the Edith Nourse Rogers
STEM Scholarship program of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 3:02 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bill, without amendment:
S. 2249. An act to allow the Deputy Admin-
istrator of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion on the date of enactment of this Act to
continue to serve as such Deputy Adminis-
trator.
The message further announced that
the House has passed the following
bills, in which it requests the concur-
rence of the Senate:
H.R. 549. An act to designate Venezuela
under section 244 of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act to permit nationals of Ven-
ezuela to be eligible for temporary protected
status under such section, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 693. An act to amend the Horse Pro-
tection Act to designate additional unlawful
acts under the Act, strengthen penalties for
violations of the Act, improve Department of
Agriculture enforcement of the Act, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 2336. An act to amend title 11, United
States Code, with respect to the definition of
‘‘family farmer’’.
H.R. 3670. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to ensure access to ap-
propriate temporary shelter, food, and water
for individuals apprehended by U.S. Customs
and Border Protection, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 3877. An act to amend the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985, to establish a congressional budget
for fiscal years 2020 and 2021, to temporarily
suspend the debt limit, and for other pur-
poses.
The message also announced that the
House has agreed to the following con-
current resolution, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H. Con. Res. 53. Concurrent resolution au-
thorizing the use of Emancipation Hall for
an event to commemorate the 400th anniver-
sary of the arrival of the first African slaves
to the territory that would become the
United States.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
The President pro tempore (Mr.
GRASSLEY) announced that on today,
July 29, 2019, he had signed the fol-
lowing enrolled bills, which were pre-
viously signed by the Speaker of the
House:
S. 504. An act to amend title 36, United
States Code, to authorize The American Le-
gion to determine the requirements for
membership in The American Legion, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 1569. An act to amend title 28, United
States Code, to add Flagstaff and Yuma to
the list of locations in which court shall be
held in the judicial district for the State of
Arizona.
H.R. 2196. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to reduce the credit hour re-
quirement for the Edith Nourse Rogers
STEM Scholarship program of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 549. An act to designate Venezuela
under section 244 of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act to permit nationals of Ven-
ezuela to be eligible for temporary protected
status under such section, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
H.R. 693. An act to amend the Horse Pro-
tection Act to designate additional unlawful
acts under the Act, strengthen penalties for
violations of the Act, improve Department of
Agriculture enforcement of the Act, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
H.R. 3670. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to ensure access to ap-
propriate temporary shelter, food, and water
for individuals apprehended by U.S. Customs
and Border Protection, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and ordered placed on the cal-
endar:
H.R. 3877. An act to amend the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985, to establish a congressional budget
for fiscal years 2020 and 2021, to temporarily
suspend the debt limit, and for other pur-
poses.
f
ENROLLED BILL PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, July 29, 2019, she had
presented to the President of the
United States the following enrolled
bill:
S. 504. An act to amend title 36, United
States Code, to authorize The American Le-
gion to determine the requirements for
membership in The American Legion, and for
other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–2128. A communication from the Con-
gressional Review Coordinator, Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service, Department
of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Notifica-
tion of Decision to Authorize the Importa-
tion of Fresh Raspberry Fruit From Morocco
Into the Continental United States’’ ((7 CFR
Part 319) (Docket No. APHIS–2015–0053)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 25, 2019; to the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2129. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator, Agricultural Marketing Serv-
ice, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Paper and Paper-Based Packaging
Promotion, Research, and Information
Order; Change in Membership and Nomina-
tions’’ ((7 CFR Part 1222) (Docket No. AMS–
SC–18–0072)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 25, 2019; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–2130. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator, Agricultural Marketing Serv-
ice, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Removal of U.S. Grade Standards’’ ((7
CFR Part 51) (Docket No. AMS–SC–18–0081))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 25, 2019; to the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29JY6.041 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5140 July 29, 2019
EC–2131. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator, Agricultural Marketing Serv-
ice, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Olives Grown in California; Increased
Assessment Rate’’ ((7 CFR Part 932) (Docket
No. AMS–SC–18–0105)) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on July 25,
2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–2132. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Energy Efficiency and Renew-
able Energy, Department of Energy, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the semi-annual
Implementation Report on Energy Conserva-
tion Standards Activities of the Department
of Energy; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
EC–2133. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Water and Science, Depart-
ment of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant
to law, a report entitled ‘‘Reclamation: Man-
aging Water in the West: Annual Operating
Plan for Colorado River Reservoirs 2019’’; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
EC–2134. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, a re-
port entitled ‘‘DERA Fourth Report to Con-
gress: Highlights of the Diesel Emissions Re-
duction Program’’; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
EC–2135. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Congressional Affairs, Office of Nu-
clear Reactor Regulation, Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Safety
Evaluation of PWROG–15060–P, ‘Pump Suc-
tion Gas Accumulation Operability Criteria
Guidance’ ’’ received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 24, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2136. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Congressional Affairs, Office of Nu-
clear Reactor Regulation, Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Final
Safety Evaluation by the Office of Nuclear
Reactor Regulation ‘Materials Reliability
Program: Pressurized Water Reactor
Internals Inspection and Evaluation Guide-
line (MRP–227 Revision 1)’ ’’ received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on July
24, 2019; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
EC–2137. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant General Counsel for Regu-
latory Affairs, Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Benefits Pay-
able in Terminated Single-Employer Plans;
Interest Assumptions for Paying Benefits’’
(29 CFR Part 4022) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on July 25, 2019;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2138. A joint communication from the
Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary
of Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to Thefts,
Losses, or Releases of Select Agents and
Toxins for Calendar Year 2018; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–2139. A communication from the Divi-
sion Chief of Regulatory Development, Fed-
eral Motor Carrier Safety Administration,
Department of Transportation, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Lifetime Disqualification for Human Traf-
ficking’’ (RIN2126–AC20) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on July
25, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2140. A communication from the Chief
of Staff, Media Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Children’s
Television Programming Rules’’ (MB Docket
Nos. 18–202 and 17–105) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on July 24,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petition or memorial
was laid before the Senate and was re-
ferred or ordered to lie on the table as
indicated:
POM–122. A concurrent resolution adopted
by the Legislature of the State of Missouri
calling on the President of the United States
to undertake a full and transparent inves-
tigation by the United States Department of
State into organ transplant practices in the
People’s Republic of China, and to call for
the prosecution of those found to have en-
gaged in such unethical practices; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION NO. 6
Whereas, extensive and credible reports
have revealed mass killing of prisoners of
conscience in the People’s Republic of China,
primarily practitioners of the spiritual based
exercises of Falun Gong, but also other reli-
gious and ethnic minority groups, in order to
obtain organs for transplants: and
Whereas, the organ transplantation system
in China docs not comply with the World
Health Organization’s Guiding Principles of
traceability and transparency in organ pro-
curement pathways, and the government of
the People’s Republic of China has resisted
independent scrutiny of the system; and
Whereas, traditional Chinese custom re-
quires bodies to be preserved intact after
death. With rare voluntary organ donation,
however, China’s transplantation industry
significantly increased since 2000; and
Whereas, the 2017 Freedom House Report
‘‘The Battle for China’s Spirit’’ states that
‘‘Available evidence suggests that forced ex-
traction of organs from Falun Gong detain-
ees for sale in transplant operations has oc-
curred on a large scale and may be con-
tinuing’’; and
Whereas, an investigative report, published
in June 2016, conducted by human rights at-
torney David Matas, former Canadian Sec-
retary of State for Asia-Pacific David
Kilgour, and journalist Ethan Gutmann, es-
timated that China is performing 60,000 to
100,000 transplants per year as opposed to
10,000 transplants claimed by the Chinese
government, which is ‘‘an industrial-scale,
state-directed organ transplantation system,
controlled through national policies and
funding, and implicating both the military
and civilian healthcare systems’’; and
Whereas, China’s Liver Transplant Reg-
istry System indicated that more than 25%
of cases were emergency transplants, for
which an organ was found within days or
even hours. Wait times for non-emergency
liver transplants were usually quoted in
weeks. Most patients in other countries have
to wait years for a transplant; and
Whereas, the Chinese government claims
that 90% of China’s organ transplant sources
come from executed prisoners. However, the
number of executions has dropped 10% annu-
ally since 2002 and is far less than the num-
ber of transplants taking place. The govern-
ment has never acknowledged the sourcing
of organs from prisoners of conscience; and
Whereas, Falun Gong, a spiritual practice
involving meditative ‘‘qigong’’ exercises and
centered on the values of truthfulness, com-
passion, and forbearance, became immensely
popular in China in the 1990s, with multiple
estimates placing the number of practi-
tioners at upwards of 70 million; and
Whereas, in July 1999, the Chinese Com-
munist Party launched an intensive, nation-
wide persecution designed to eradicate the
spiritual practice of Falun Gong, including
physical and mental torture, reflecting the
party’s long-standing intolerance of large
independent civil society groups; and
Whereas, since 1999, hundreds of thousands
of Falun Gong practitioners have been de-
tained extra-legally in Chinese reeducation-
through-labor camps, detention centers, and
prisons, where torture, abuse, and implau-
sible medical exams and blood tests on Falun
Gong practitioners are routine; and
Whereas, Freedom House reported in 2015
that Falun Gong practitioners comprise the
largest portion of prisoners of conscience in
China, and face an elevated risk of dying or
being killed in custody; and
Whereas, the United Nations Committee
Against Torture and the Special Rapporteur
on Torture have expressed concern over the
allegations of organ harvesting from Falun
Gong prisoners, and have called on the Gov-
ernment of the People’s Republic of China to
increase accountability and transparency in
the organ transplant system and punish
those responsible for abuses; and
Whereas, in June 2016, the U.S. House of
Representatives unanimously passed House
Resolution 343, condemning the systematic,
state-sanctioned organ harvesting from
Falun Gong and other prisoners of con-
science; and
Whereas, the killing of religious or polit-
ical prisoners for the purpose of selling their
organs for transplant is an egregious and in-
tolerable violation of the fundamental right
to live; and
Whereas, organ tourism to China should
not be shielded by medical confidentiality,
but openly monitored. No nation should
allow their citizens to go to China for organs
until China has allowed a full investigation
into organ harvesting of prisoners of con-
science, both past and present: Now there-
fore be it
Resolved, That the members of the Missouri
Senate, One-Hundredth General Assembly,
first Regular Session, the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring therein:
(1) Call upon the Government of the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China to immediately end
the practice of organ harvesting from all
prisoners and prisoners of conscience, and
explicitly from Falun Gong prisoners of con-
science and members of other religious and
ethnic minority groups;
(2) Call upon the Government of the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China to immediately end
the 17-year persecution of the Falun Gong,
and the immediate release of all Falun Gong
practitioners and other prisoners of con-
science;
(3) Call upon the President of the United
States to undertake a full and transparent
investigation by the United States Depart-
ment of State into organ transplant prac-
tices in the People’s Republic of China, and
calls for the prosecution of those found to
have engaged in such unethical practices;
(4) Encourage the medical community of
Missouri to engage in educating colleagues
and residents of Missouri about the risks of
travel to China for organ transplants so as to
help prevent Missouri residents from unwit-
tingly becoming involved in murder in the
form of forced organ harvesting from pris-
oners of conscience; and
(5) Agree to take measures to ban the
entry of those who have participated in ille-
gal removal of human tissues and organs,
and seek prosecution of such individuals
should they be found on the soil of Missouri;
and be it further
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Mis-
souri Senate be instructed to prepare prop-
erly inscribed copies of this resolution for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29JY6.007 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5141
July 29, 2019
the President and Vice President of the
United States, the President and Secretary
of the United States Senate, the Speaker and
Clerk of the United States House of Rep-
resentatives, the chair of the Senate Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, the chair of the
House Committee on Foreign Relations, and
each member of Missouri’s Congressional
delegation.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. HOEVEN, from the Committee on
Indian Affairs, without amendment:
H.R. 1388. A bill to take lands in Sonoma
County, California, into trust as part of the
reservation of the Lytton Rancheria of Cali-
fornia, and for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–
67).
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. BARRASSO:
S. 2302. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to authorize funds for Federal-
aid highways and highway safety construc-
tion programs, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. BENNET, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. BROWN, Ms. CANT-
WELL, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. CARPER, Mr.
CASEY, Ms. COLLINS, Mr. COONS, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. ENZI,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms.
HARRIS, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. HEINRICH,
Ms. HIRONO, Mr. JONES, Mr. KAINE,
Mr. KING, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. MORAN, Mr. MURPHY, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Mr. PETERS, Mr. REED, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr. SCHUMER,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. SMITH, Ms. STABE-
NOW, Mr. TESTER, Mr. UDALL, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. WARNER, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 2303. A bill to allow United States citi-
zens and legal residents to travel between
the United States and Cuba; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. BROWN:
S. 2304. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to enhance efforts to address an-
tibiotic resistance, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. BOOKER:
S. 2305. A bill to amend title XIX of the So-
cial Security Act to provide a consistent
standard of health care to the incarcerated,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. 2306. A bill to amend the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 to allow for the registra-
tion of venture exchanges, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. BOOKER:
S. 2307. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
Defense to make grants to support the study
of world languages in elementary schools
and secondary schools; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. WICKER (for himself, Mr.
LANKFORD, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
BLUNT, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. DAINES,
Mr. INHOFE, Ms. ERNST, and Mr.
CRAMER):
S. 2308. A bill to intensify stem cell re-
search showing evidence of substantial clin-
ical benefit to patients, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. ROSEN (for herself and Mr.
ROUNDS):
S. 2309. A bill to require the Secretary of
State to submit a report on potential bene-
fits and impact to the United States of es-
tablishing a joint United States-Israel cyber-
security center of excellence; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mr.
INHOFE, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr.
WICKER, Mr. WYDEN, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. PORTMAN, and Mr.
MARKEY):
S. 2310. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to establish a competitive grant
program to repair, improve, rehabilitate, or
replace bridges to improve the safety, effi-
ciency, and reliability of the movement of
people and freight over bridge crossings, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Ms.
MCSALLY):
S. 2311. A bill to expand eligibility for the
My Career Advancement Account program of
the Department of Defense to certain mili-
tary spouses, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. BRAUN (for himself and Ms.
ERNST):
S. Res. 287. A resolution establishing ap-
propriate thresholds for certain budget
points of order in the Senate, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Budget.
By Mr. BRAUN:
S. Res. 288. A resolution affirming the im-
portance of the long-term solvency of the
Highway Trust Fund; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
By Mr. DAINES:
S. Res. 289. A resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate that socialism poses a
significant threat to freedom, liberty, and
economic prosperity; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. Res. 290. A resolution celebrating 50
years of environmental progress in the Cuya-
hoga River Valley and Lake Erie; considered
and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 117
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mr. MANCHIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 117, a bill to prohibit dis-
crimination against individuals with
disabilities who need long-term serv-
ices and supports, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 133
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY), the Senator from Or-
egon (Mr. WYDEN) and the Senator
from New York (Mr. SCHUMER) were
added as cosponsors of S. 133, a bill to
award a Congressional Gold Medal, col-
lectively, to the United States mer-
chant mariners of World War II, in rec-
ognition of their dedicated and vital
service during World War II.
S. 153
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 153, a bill to promote vet-
eran involvement in STEM education,
computer science, and scientific re-
search, and for other purposes.
S. 178
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 178, a bill to condemn gross
human rights violations of ethnic
Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang, and call-
ing for an end to arbitrary detention,
torture, and harassment of these com-
munities inside and outside China.
S. 203
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 203, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to perma-
nently extend the railroad track main-
tenance credit, and for other purposes.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
433, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve home
health payment reforms under the
Medicare program.
S. 439
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
439, a bill to allow Members of Congress
to opt out of the Federal Employees
Retirement System, and allow Mem-
bers who opt out of the Federal Em-
ployees Retirement System to con-
tinue to participate in the Thrift Sav-
ings Plan.
S. 479
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 479, a bill to revise section 48
of title 18, United States Code, and for
other purposes.
S. 569
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 569, a bill to direct the
Secretary of Transportation to issue
regulations relating to commercial
motor vehicle drivers under the age of
21, and for other purposes.
S. 628
At the request of Mr. KING, the name
of the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms.
BALDWIN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 628, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to include bio-
mass heating appliances for tax credits
available for energy-efficient building
property and energy property.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29JY6.020 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5142 July 29, 2019
S. 684
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Senator
from Idaho (Mr. CRAPO) and the Sen-
ator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
were added as cosponsors of S. 684, a
bill to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to repeal the excise tax on
high-cost employer-sponsored health
coverage.
S. 720
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 720, a bill to require the stu-
dent loan ombudsman of the Depart-
ment of Education to provide student
loan data to the Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection, and for other
purposes.
S. 737
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 737, a bill to direct the
National Science Foundation to sup-
port STEM education research focused
on early childhood.
S. 750
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 750, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to per-
manently extend the new markets tax
credit, and for other purposes.
S. 756
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
756, a bill to modify the prohibition on
recognition by United States courts of
certain rights relating to certain
marks, trade names, or commercial
names.
S. 814
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 814, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to im-
prove access to diabetes outpatient
self-management training services, and
for other purposes.
S. 880
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. CASSIDY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 880, a bill to provide outreach and
reporting on comprehensive Alz-
heimer’s disease care planning services
furnished under the Medicare program.
S. 885
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
885, a bill to amend the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to
expand access to school-wide arts and
music programs, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1007
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1007, a bill to amend the Horse
Protection Act to designate additional
unlawful acts under the Act, strength-
en penalties for violations of the Act,
improve Department of Agriculture en-
forcement of the Act, and for other
purposes.
S. 1027
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1027, a bill to clarify the status of
the North Country, Ice Age, and New
England National Scenic Trails as
units of the National Park System, and
for other purposes.
S. 1083
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1083, a bill to address the
fundamental injustice, cruelty, bru-
tality, and inhumanity of slavery in
the United States and the 13 American
colonies between 1619 and 1865 and to
establish a commission to study and
consider a national apology and pro-
posal for reparations for the institu-
tion of slavery, its subsequent de jure
and de facto racial and economic dis-
crimination against African-Ameri-
cans, and the impact of these forces on
living African-Americans, to make rec-
ommendations to the Congress on ap-
propriate remedies, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1107
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) and the Senator
from Montana (Mr. TESTER) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1107, a bill to re-
quire a review of women and lung can-
cer, and for other purposes.
S. 1263
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from North
Dakota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1263, a bill to require
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to es-
tablish an interagency task force on
the use of public lands to provide med-
ical treatment and therapy to veterans
through outdoor recreation.
S. 1333
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1333, a bill to amend the Improper Pay-
ments Elimination and Recovery Im-
provement Act of 2012, including mak-
ing changes to the Do Not Pay Initia-
tive, for improved detection, preven-
tion, and recovery of improper pay-
ments to deceased individuals, and for
other purposes.
S. 1374
At the request of Ms. MCSALLY, the
names of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Maine
(Mr. KING) and the Senator from Mas-
sachusetts (Ms. WARREN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1374, a bill to amend
title II of the Social Security Act to
eliminate the waiting periods for dis-
ability insurance benefits and Medicare
coverage for individuals with meta-
static breast cancer, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1487
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1487, a bill to amend the Clean
Air Act to create a national zero-emis-
sion vehicle standard, and for other
purposes.
S. 1615
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1615, a bill to amend titles
10 and 37, United States Code, to pro-
vide compensation and credit for re-
tired pay purposes for maternity leave
taken by members of the reserve com-
ponents, and for other purposes.
S. 1757
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1757, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal, collectively, to the
United States Army Rangers Veterans
of World War II in recognition of their
extraordinary service during World
War II.
S. 1817
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. BRAUN) and the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1817, a bill to amend
the Richard B. Russell National School
Lunch Act to improve nutritional and
other program requirements relating
to purchases of locally produced food.
S. 1890
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from New
Mexico (Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1890, a bill to provide
for grants for energy efficiency im-
provements and renewable energy im-
provements at public school facilities.
S. 1906
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1906, a bill to require the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to pro-
vide financial assistance to eligible en-
tities to provide and coordinate the
provision of suicide prevention services
for veterans at risk of suicide and vet-
eran families through the award of
grants to such entities, and for other
purposes.
S. 1932
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1932, a bill to support water infrastruc-
ture in Reclamation States, and for
other purposes.
S. 1969
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. WARNER) and the Senator from
West Virginia (Mr. MANCHIN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1969, a bill to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29JY6.014 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5143
July 29, 2019
authorize the Fallen Journalists Me-
morial Foundation to establish a com-
memorative work in the District of Co-
lumbia and its environs, and for other
purposes.
S. 2054
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2054, a bill to posthumously award
the Congressional Gold Medal, collec-
tively, to Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods,
J. Christopher Stevens, and Sean
Smith, in recognition of their contribu-
tions to the Nation.
S. 2062
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2062, a bill to prohibit the use
of funds for the 2026 World Cup unless
the United States Soccer Federation
provides equitable pay to the members
of the United States Women’s National
Team and the United States Men’s Na-
tional Team.
S. 2068
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
names of the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY) and the Senator from
Colorado (Mr. BENNET) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2068, a bill to prohibit
the Bureau of the Census from includ-
ing citizenship data in the legislative
redistricting data prepared by the Bu-
reau.
S. 2074
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2074, a bill to amend section 303(g) of
the Controlled Substances Act (21
U.S.C. 823(g)) to eliminate the separate
registration requirement for dispensing
narcotic drugs in schedule III, IV, or V,
such as buprenorphine, for mainte-
nance or detoxification treatment, and
for other purposes.
S. 2085
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2085, a bill to authorize the Secretary
of Education to award grants to eligi-
ble entities to carry out educational
programs about the Holocaust, and for
other purposes.
S. 2119
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2119, a bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to appropriately limit the
authority to award bonuses to Federal
employees.
S. 2179
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) and the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2179, a bill to
amend the Older Americans Act of 1965
to provide social service agencies with
the resources to provide services to
meet the urgent needs of Holocaust
survivors to age in place with dignity,
comfort, security, and quality of life.
S. 2185
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2185, a bill to provide labor
standards for certain energy jobs, and
for other purposes.
S. 2229
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2229, a bill to protect con-
sumers from deceptive practices with
respect to online booking of hotel res-
ervations, and for other purposes.
S. 2231
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2231, a bill to establish Amer-
ican opportunity accounts, to modify
estate and gift tax rules, to reform the
taxation of capital income, and for
other purposes.
S. 2253
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2253, a bill to amend chapter 2205
of title 36, United States Code, to pro-
vide pay equity for amateur athletes
and other personnel, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2254
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
names of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr.
SCHATZ) and the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2254, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to create
a Pension Rehabilitation Trust Fund,
to establish a Pension Rehabilitation
Administration within the Department
of the Treasury to make loans to mul-
tiemployer defined benefit plans, and
for other purposes.
S. 2256
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2256, a bill to protect children
affected by immigration enforcement
actions.
S. 2279
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 2279, a bill to make nec-
essary reforms to improve compliance
with loss mitigation requirements by
servicers of mortgages for single fam-
ily housing insured by the FHA, and for
other purposes.
S. RES. 252
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 252, a resolution desig-
nating September 2019 as National De-
mocracy Month as a time to reflect on
the contributions of the system of gov-
ernment of the United States to a more
free and stable world.
S. RES. 263
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 263, a resolution honoring the
100th anniversary of The American Le-
gion.
S. RES. 274
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
ROBERTS) and the Senator from Ari-
zona (Ms. MCSALLY) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 274, a resolution ex-
pressing solidarity with Falun Gong
practitioners who have lost lives, free-
doms, and other rights for adhering to
their beliefs and practices, and con-
demning the practice of non-con-
senting organ harvesting, and for other
purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BENNET, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. CARPER, Mr. CASEY,
Ms. COLLINS, Mr. COONS, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. DURBIN, Mr.
ENZI, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. JONES, Mr. KAINE,
Mr. KING, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. MORAN, Mr. MUR-
PHY, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. REED, Mr. SANDERS, Mr.
SCHATZ, Mr. SCHUMER, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Ms. SMITH, Ms. STA-
BENOW, Mr. TESTER, Mr. UDALL,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. WARNER,
Ms. WARREN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 2303. A bill to allow United States
citizens and legal residents to travel
between the United States and Cuba; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I am
here today to talk about America’s
highway infrastructure. It is important
to every State. I have just come back
from Wyoming, and it clearly is impor-
tant in my home State. It is important
in every community. It is important in
every Tribe in the country. I see that
week after week in Wyoming. Our
roads, our bridges, our highways, our
tunnels support America’s economic
growth and our competitiveness. The
Presiding Officer, from his home State
of Missouri, knows this as well. These
are an essential part, really, of every-
day life for all of America.
We use the infrastructure. We use the
roads, the bridges, the tunnels. We use
them when we drive to work, when we
head to school or we head off to sum-
mer vacation. Our economy is built on
a well-functioning road system that al-
lows products from rural areas to get
transported to population centers.
They are used to ship American-made
products and goods from one coast to
the other.
Certainly in Wyoming, we see a lot of
goods coming in then being transported
from the coast in California to Chi-
cago, with truck after truck going
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29JY6.016 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5144 July 29, 2019
through Wyoming. Interstates, like I–
80 in my home State of Wyoming, are
critical arteries for commerce in this
country. Our roads create jobs. They
move products, and they keep our
country running and going strong.
In 2015, the U.S. transportation sys-
tem moved a daily average of about 49
million tons of freight; that is, a daily
average of 49 million tons of freight
worth more than $53 billion—every sin-
gle day. Our roads and our bridges have
to keep pace. These systems are vital
to our country, and they need to be
taken care of. We must maintain, up-
grade, and, when necessary, build new
ones.
Since his election, President Trump
has called on Congress to act on infra-
structure. Last year, Congress an-
swered the President’s call by passing
America’s Water Infrastructure Act.
He signed it into law. It passed this
body 99 to 1. The legislation helped
streamline major projects and helped
keep communities safe. It made a sig-
nificant investment in our Nation’s
dams and our locks and our ports and
in drinking water systems.
Now is the time to do the same for
our roads and for our bridges. That is
why, today, I am introducing Amer-
ica’s Transportation Infrastructure
Act, and I am doing it along with my
fellow leaders of the Environment and
Public Works Committee, Ranking
Member CARPER and Senators CAPITO
and CARDIN.
This legislation will make a historic
investment in our roads. It will cut
Washington redtape. It will improve
safety and will help grow our economy.
America’s Transportation Infrastruc-
ture Act authorizes $287 billion over 5
years from the highway trust fund. Of
that money, $259 billion will go di-
rectly to the States through the high-
way formula funding process. This is
the largest investment in America’s
roads in any highway bill ever passed
by Congress. The legislation will help
the entire country. It will ensure both
rural and urban areas have access to
funding.
Formula funding gives each State the
flexibility it needs to address specific
surface transportation needs. The for-
mula-based approach has a proven
track record of efficiently delivering
infrastructure money directly to the
States. America’s Transportation In-
frastructure Act maintains this impor-
tant approach so that States will get
the funds they need faster.
America’s Transportation Infrastruc-
ture Act also continues successful Fed-
eral loan programs, such as the Trans-
portation Infrastructure Finance and
Innovation Act, which many people in
the business know as TIFIA. TIFIA and
programs like it get taxpayers signifi-
cant bang for their buck. A single tax-
payer dollar in the TIFIA program can
be leveraged 40 times that much in
terms of infrastructure spending.
Between new authorizations,
leveraging within Federal loan pro-
grams, with State-match requirements
and likely additions from the Com-
merce and Banking Committees, our
bill’s total impact on infrastructure
will be nearly one-half trillion dol-
lars—a historic high. With these in-
vestments, it is critical for us to speed
up government approvals for important
projects.
Last Congress, the Environment and
Public Works Committee heard testi-
mony about a highway safety project
that I am very familiar with in Wyo-
ming—and not too far from where the
Presiding Officer lives—near the inter-
state north of Sheridan, between Sheri-
dan and Montana. It took a decade to
get the permits but actually took only
months to build. That has to stop. This
was a safety project linking our States
together. It was held up for 10 years be-
cause of Washington permits. It is un-
acceptable. America’s Transportation
Infrastructure Act cuts Washington
redtape so projects can get done faster,
better, cheaper, and smarter. President
Trump has set a goal for his adminis-
tration of completing environmental
reviews for projects within 2 years. It
is a goal that I applaud, and the policy
is called One Federal Decision.
Our legislation makes key elements
of that policy into law. Instead of sev-
eral Federal agencies having duplicate
requirements on the same project, the
process is simplified because it needs
to be simplified. Our bill gives States
increased flexibility so that Federal
approvals can get moving and so that
project construction can get started. It
also reduces the amount of paperwork
that is needed from the States to com-
plete a project. Our legislation gets
long delayed safety projects moving
faster. Washington shouldn’t prioritize
paperwork over people’s safety, but
that has happened in the past, and it is
unacceptable.
America’s Transportation Infrastruc-
ture Act makes road safety a top pri-
ority. It supports innovative research
and technology deployment, including
new construction technologies that
will make roads safer and will expedite
project delivery. For example, the bill
supports technologies that allow con-
struction projects to be managed
digitally. That will enable project
managers to better track projects from
design through operation.
The Presiding Officer knows this and
sees it, and I saw it this past weekend.
When a car collides with an animal on
a highway, the results can be dramatic
and sometimes even deadly for both
the animal and for the driver. Our bill
creates a pilot program to build wild-
life highway crossings to minimize the
danger of vehicle-wildlife collisions.
Across the country, aging bridges are
in need of maintenance. Our bill estab-
lishes a competitive grant program to
help address the backlogs of bridges
that are in poor condition. Our bill es-
tablishes a new program to incentivize
States to lower the total number of fa-
talities with there being a special focus
on pedestrian deaths, which are on the
rise.
Of course, the climate is changing,
and humans have a collective responsi-
bility to do something about it. I be-
lieve that American innovation, not
government regulation and taxation, is
the answer to our addressing a chang-
ing climate. Our bill includes a climate
change title that ensures the dura-
bility of our transportation infrastruc-
ture, and our bill provides flexible re-
sources to help States reduce carbon
emissions. It helps States build more
resilient highways. We want to make
sure that our roads and our bridges are
built to withstand extreme weather
events, like hurricanes and floods, or
natural disasters, like wildfires, earth-
quakes, and rockslides.
The legislation also helps to reduce
transportation-related carbon emis-
sions. The very successful bill that had
been signed into law previously and is
expiring, the Diesel Emissions Reduc-
tion Act, is a program that has helped
communities in Wyoming and Montana
to replace aging school buses and pub-
lic equipment. The Diesel Emissions
Reduction Act helps to reduce black
carbon emissions. This is one of the
biggest contributors to climate change.
Our bill reauthorizes this program, and
it supports innovation. Carbon capture,
utilization, and sequestration tech-
nologies hold the key to major emis-
sions reductions. I have introduced the
USE IT Act, along with my colleagues
in the Senate, to support this impor-
tant research, and it is included in this
bill.
As I have stated, this is bipartisan
legislation. It doesn’t just include Re-
publican priorities; it includes Demo-
cratic priorities as well. For example,
this legislation establishes grant pro-
grams to help fund the construction of
electric vehicle charging stations and
infrastructure for other alternative
fuel vehicles, such as natural gas. This
provision has been a priority for sev-
eral Senators, including for Ranking
Member CARPER.
My priority is to make sure these ve-
hicles are actually contributing to the
maintenance of our roads. With a rap-
idly growing electric vehicle market, it
is necessary to make sure drivers of
these alternative fuel vehicles are con-
tributing to road maintenance. Nearly
every automaker is ramping up elec-
tric vehicle production. Right now,
none of these vehicles pay to maintain
America’s roads. How can that be? The
highway trust fund is funded through
fuel taxes. Because they don’t buy gas-
oline, these vehicles simply do not con-
tribute. Yet electric vehicles do as
much damage to our highways as do
traditional gas-powered vehicles. Ev-
eryone who drives on our Nation’s
roads should contribute to the cost of
road maintenance.
Our bill is bipartisan, substantial,
and needs to be paid for. As the Pre-
siding Officer knows, the Committee
on Environment and Public Works
doesn’t have jurisdiction over revenues
for the highway bill. Ranking Member
CARPER and I are going to work closely
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29JY6.008 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5145
July 29, 2019
with Senate Finance Chairman CHUCK
GRASSLEY and Ranking Member RON
WYDEN to responsibly pay for this leg-
islation.
In the process of writing this legisla-
tion, we have received extensive feed-
back from experts from our home
States and from other Senators. The
bill has already received broad support
from groups like the American Asso-
ciation of State Highway and Trans-
portation Officials, the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce, the National Association
of Manufacturers, the American High-
way Users Alliance, the American Road
& Transportation Builders Association,
the American Council of Engineering
Companies, the National Stone, Sand
and Gravel Association, the North
American Concrete Alliance, and many
more.
We have planned to mark up Amer-
ica’s Transportation Infrastructure Act
this week. The business meeting will be
a great opportunity in which to
strengthen the legislation and move
this important process forward. I am
thankful to Ranking Member CARPER
and to all of the members of our com-
mittee for working with me on this im-
portant piece of legislation. America’s
Transportation Infrastructure Act will
grow the Nation’s economy, will im-
prove the safety of our roads, and will
enhance the quality of life for the
American people.
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I rise
today to discuss America’s Transpor-
tation Infrastructure Act, legislation
that I introduced today with the chair-
man of the Environment and Public
Works Committee, JOHN BARRASSO,
along with our subcommittee chair on
Transportation and Infrastructure,
SHELLEY MOORE CAPITO, and our rank-
ing member from Maryland, BEN
CARDIN.
Our legislation reauthorizes our Na-
tion’s surface transportation laws and
makes a historic $287 billion invest-
ment in our Nation’s roads, highways,
and bridges. Our Nation’s first highway
bill was enacted just a few years after
the world’s first concrete highway was
paved outside of Detroit, MI. Henry
Ford had just introduced the Model T,
and the first stop-go traffic light would
soon be installed at the intersection of
East 105th Street and Euclid Avenue in
Cleveland, OH.
A century ago, the idea of speedy and
safe transcontinental travel was be-
yond our imagination and even further
from being realized. We have come a
long way since then.
Today, more than 4 million miles of
roadway and 600,000 bridges help link
our country together. Some 220,000 of
those miles combine to make up our
national highway system. Our trans-
portation infrastructure is essential to
America’s economy, to our society, and
to our way of life. It connects us to
commerce; it connects us to service;
and, more importantly, it connects us
to one another.
The sad truth, however, is that, as we
all know too well, many of these roads,
highways, and bridges are in poor con-
dition today. They have been in use far
beyond, for many of them, the intended
duration of their original design. A
great many roadways and bridges sim-
ply need repaving, while some need re-
pairs, and others need to be completely
redesigned.
According to the U.S. Department of
Transportation, approximately 20 per-
cent of our Federal-aid roadways are in
poor condition, as are 47,000 bridges.
That is in large part because, for far
too long, our Nation’s highway trust
fund has been operating on the brink of
insolvency. The highway account is
running at an $11 billion deficit, and
that deficit is growing.
Meanwhile, despite spending more
from the fund than we collect, we still
aren’t spending enough to make a dent
in the $800 billion backlog of invest-
ments needed to significantly improve
conditions on many of the roads, high-
ways, and bridges that millions of
Americans—all of us—use and depend
on every day.
All of this has contributed to an un-
acceptable level of uncertainty for
States, for cities, for businesses, and
for families. It has prevented us, as a
nation, from addressing serious chal-
lenges across our transportation infra-
structure that go well beyond simply
filling potholes.
For too long, we have failed to make
meaningful progress in America toward
improving safety, easing traffic conges-
tion, reducing harmful emissions, and
enhancing resilience. We can do better
than this. The legislation that is before
us today, if enacted, will help put our
country back on the right track. I am
excited about it, and I am grateful to
everyone who has contributed in ways
both large and small to the drafting of
the legislation that Senator BARRASSO
and I have introduced today.
While this bill will leverage badly
needed investments in rebuilding our
roads, highways, and bridges, it will do
a lot more than that. It will help expe-
dite the movement of people and goods
throughout our country. It will support
the creation of hundreds of thousands
of jobs here too. It will help alleviate
some of the congestion we face in
urban and suburban parts of all 50
States—areas across the country—on
an almost daily basis.
America’s Transportation Infrastruc-
ture Act will help make real the vision
of a safer, more connected, efficient,
and climate-friendly transportation
system, one that will endure the test of
time and keep up with the evolving de-
mands of the world’s biggest economy.
Our bill is a good start. Now we need to
build on it and make it better.
With respect to safety, too many pe-
destrians and bicyclists put their lives
at risk every day when they use our
roadways. In 2017, there were more
than 37,000—37,000—fatalities on our
Nation’s roadways, including approxi-
mately 7,000 nonmotorized users. Think
about that: 37,000 fatalities. That is
more than all of the people who live in
Dover, DE, or in Laramie, WY.
After trending down for many years,
in the last decade pedestrian deaths
have increased sharply and are now at
a 25-year high. In Tribal communities,
that fatality rate is even higher. That
is just unacceptable.
Our legislation addresses this car-
nage by investing $2.5 billion in Fed-
eral funds per year in safety improve-
ments and by compelling States and
cities with very high rates of pedes-
trian and bicyclist fatalities to do their
share as well.
Our legislation also expands funding
for bike paths, sidewalks, and other
transportation alternatives to $1.2 bil-
lion per year. It empowers States and
cities to design, implement, and man-
age those projects so they are better
designed to fit the needs of those
States and cities.
Too many Americans simply don’t
have safe places to walk or bike. In
some cases, we build roads in ways that
make it impossible for people to walk
or bicycle where they need to go, be it
a grocery store, a daycare center, a
health facility—you name it.
America’s transportation infrastruc-
ture should connect us, not divide us.
Let me say that again. America’s
transportation infrastructure should
connect us, not divide us. It should fos-
ter greater economic opportunity, not
disparity.
Our legislation seeks to improve
connectivity and accessibility by es-
tablishing a pilot program for States
and cities to measure access to destina-
tions like hospitals, schools, and gro-
cery stores. Our bill also funds a pro-
gram to help remove barriers, such as
chronically underused highways—when
appropriate—that create obstacles to
access and mobility.
But an even more pressing need to
address throughout America is the
roads, highways, and bridges that are
actually overcapacity today, where
cars and trucks and their passengers
sit for hours in traffic. Last year, every
American driver lost, on average, 97
hours due to traffic congestion. That is
97 hours for the average driver per
year. That is 4 days. It is not just a
nuisance for drivers; last year, it cost
our country $87 billion in lost produc-
tivity—$87 billion. Let’s not forget that
all that time we waste sitting in our
cars and trucks also degrades the qual-
ity of the air we breathe, increases the
cost of our healthcare, and raises the
cost of the goods we buy.
Our legislation addresses this predic-
ament by authorizing additional fund-
ing for the Congestion Mitigation and
Air Quality Program, which has been
used to build carpool lanes and support
a number of other alternatives to re-
duce congestion.
In addition, our legislation recog-
nizes that in many places, it is just not
possible to build additional lanes, so we
need to address congestion by man-
aging travel demand through innova-
tive technology, transit, and tolling.
That is why we have also created a new
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29JY6.009 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5146 July 29, 2019
program for our largest cities to pro-
vide new tools—new tools—to help ad-
dress congestion challenges.
That brings us to the evermore ap-
parent reality of climate change and
its ever-worsening impact on, among
other things, our infrastructure. The
cars, trucks, and vans that we drive
have become our Nation’s largest
source of carbon dioxide emissions, ac-
celerating and exacerbating the effects
of climate change and bringing with it
increasingly extreme weather that we
are witnessing throughout the world on
an almost daily basis. For example, in
Europe last week, temperatures ex-
ceeded 110 degrees Fahrenheit. And we
have examples here too. We have just
come off of the hottest 4 years in the
history of this country since we have
been measuring it, and this year looks
like it is going to be the hottest yet.
We have to do more than fight, and
with this legislation, we will.
I am proud to announce that Amer-
ica’s Transportation Infrastructure Act
includes the first-ever climate title in
a transportation bill in the history of
Congress. Our legislation calls for in-
vesting $10 billion over the next 5 years
directly in programs and policies that
will combat climate change by reduc-
ing emissions and improving the resil-
iency of our transportation networks
and infrastructure.
One such program is a $1 billion in-
vestment in charging and fueling sta-
tions for electric and alternative fuel
vehicles traveling in heavily traveled
corridors across America. While Henry
Ford’s Model T and its internal com-
bustion engine are an important part
of our country’s transportation system,
zero-emission electric vehicles rep-
resent our future.
Unfortunately, in most parts of
America today, drivers lack reasonable
access to charging or fueling stations
for electric or hydrogen-fueled vehi-
cles. Our legislation helps to address
that concern by creating competitive
grants for States and localities to build
hydrogen, natural gas, and electric ve-
hicle charging and fueling infrastruc-
ture along many of America’s most
heavily traveled highway corridors.
Meanwhile, increasingly frequent and
extreme weather events continue to
erode our transportation networks, and
sea level rise threatens the structural
integrity and longevity of our surface
transportation infrastructure. We see
that happening now in my home State
of Delaware, along major portions of
the East Coast, and in the flooding
that has occurred in the heartland of
our country. It has been reported in the
news that in some places in America,
the temperature has been so hot that
the asphalt roads and highways are
bubbling up from the heat. Try driving
through that.
Our legislation seeks to help address
these threats by investing nearly $5
billion over 5 years in a new formula
program available to all States and a
competitive resiliency grant program.
Both the formula program and the new
PROTECT Grants Program would sup-
port projects across America that rein-
force, upgrade, or realign existing
transportation infrastructure to better
withstand extreme weather events and
the effects of climate change, like the
record-setting temperatures I have spo-
ken of.
Let me briefly mention one other
thing. Through the use of natural in-
frastructure, like the marshes and wet-
lands that protect roads from storm
surges during tropical cyclones and
Nor’easters, our bill also helps harness
the power of Mother Nature to improve
the resilience of transportation
projects.
That gives you at least a glimpse of
some of the exciting aspects of the leg-
islation our committee chairman, JOHN
BARRASSO, and I are introducing today,
again with the help of a lot of people
on our committee, throughout the Sen-
ate—Democrats and Republicans—and
from all parts of this country. We in-
troduced our legislation with their help
and help from every corner of the coun-
try, and it comes from State and local
governments as well.
In the coming months, I look forward
to sharing more stories about how the
America’s Transportation Infrastruc-
ture Act can tackle complicated issues,
improve our daily lives, and help us
build the roads, highways, and bridges
of the future.
As bright as the chairman and I are
on our committee—and our very able
staff members like to think we are—I
am confident that our bill can be im-
proved as it moves through the legisla-
tive process in the months ahead. As I
oftentimes say, if it isn’t perfect, let’s
make it better. As good as what we
have done is—and we are proud of our
handiwork—we know it can be better,
and we look forward to making it bet-
ter. That begins tomorrow morning at
9 a.m. with a markup in the Senate
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
Before I close, I would be remiss if I
failed to remind everyone that with re-
spect to surface infrastructure, the 800-
pound gorilla in the room is almost al-
ways, how are we going to pay for the
improvements and the programs we all
know we need? The fact is, as I have
said, the highway trust fund is going
broke, and, if we are honest with one
another, our way of paying for it is
broken too. So what should we do
about it?
It is important to note that our legis-
lation will continue to fund the State-
level vehicle-miles-traveled pilot pro-
grams established in the 2015 bill. I am
especially pleased, however, that our
legislation also includes a national ve-
hicle-miles-traveled pilot program—the
first of its kind. I believe that user fee-
based approaches are generally the best
way to fund our Nation’s surface trans-
portation system and that vehicle-
miles-traveled systems, which seek to
ensure that all road users pay their fair
share, are the future.
In the meantime, there needs to be a
bridge to that future, and that bridge
will not rely on a silver bullet but on
what I refer to as a lot of silver BBs,
some of which are bigger than others.
With that, let me conclude by reit-
erating that Chairman BARRASSO and I
look forward to working closely with
our colleagues on the Senate Finance
Committee—a committee on which I
am privileged to serve—to ensure that
this bill is responsibly paid for.
I have already begun to meet with
several of our colleagues on the rel-
evant committees of jurisdiction, and I
am anxious to work with them and all
of our colleagues as we face not just
the dawning challenges that lie ahead
but the opportunities as well.
Winston Churchill once said, ‘‘You
can always count on America to do the
right thing in the end, after trying ev-
erything else.’’ If we pull together and
work together in the House and Sen-
ate, as I believe we tend to do in the
Senate Environment and Public Works
Committee, then we can reach that end
a good deal sooner than Mr. Churchill
and a lot of the skeptics might other-
wise expect. So why don’t we show
those skeptics what we can do? A great
many Americans are counting on us to
do just that, and we can’t let them
down.
Again, I thank my staff, the staff of
our Chairman BARRASSO, and the staff
of Senators CAPITO, BEN CARDIN, and
others on our committee for their ex-
cellent work and for negotiating in
good faith throughout this year. Their
spirit and dogged commitment are a
big part of what brought us to where
we are today.
But we all know that the introduc-
tion of a solid bipartisan bill, even
when it is followed the next day by a
successful markup, we hope, in com-
mittee—we must acknowledge that it
is just the beginning, but it is a good
start, one that we and our colleagues
can and I hope will build on, enabling
us and America to seize the day. I don’t
know a lot of Latin, but I think Latin
for ‘‘seize the day’’ is ‘‘carpe diem,’’ or
as we say in Delaware, ‘‘Carper diem.’’
Thank you.
Mr. LEAHY. Today I am introducing,
along with 45 Democratic and Repub-
lican cosponsors, the Freedom for
Americans to Travel to Cuba Act of
2019. Identical legislation was intro-
duced on July 25th by Representatives
JIM MCGOVERN and TOM EMMER in the
House.
We are introducing this bill for one
reason: so Americans can travel to
Cuba in the same way that they can
travel to every other country in the
world except North Korea, to which
President Trump banned travel by ex-
ecutive order. Based on my conversa-
tions with other Senators, I am con-
fident that if we were afforded the op-
portunity to vote on this bill, more
than 60 Senators would support it.
It is indefensible that the Federal
government restricts American citi-
zens and legal residents from traveling
to a tiny country 90 miles away that
poses no threat to us. At a time when
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29JY6.013 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5147
July 29, 2019
U.S. airlines are flying to Cuba, does
anyone here honestly think that pre-
venting Americans from traveling
there is an appropriate role of the Fed-
eral government? Why only Cuba? Why
not Venezuela? Or Russia? Or Iran, or
anywhere else? It is a vindictive, dis-
criminatory, self-defeating vestige of a
time long passed.
This bill would end these Cold War
restrictions on the freedom of Ameri-
cans to travel. It would not do away
with the embargo.
Americans overwhelmingly favor
travel to Cuba. The last poll I saw, a
CBS poll, found that 81 percent of
Americans support expanding travel to
Cuba. Officials in the White House,
however, have a different agenda, driv-
en by purely domestic political cal-
culations. They have not only rolled
back steps taken by the previous ad-
ministration to encourage engagement
with Cuba, they have gone further by
imposing even more onerous restric-
tions on the right of Americans to
travel. As a result, the number of
Americans traveling to Cuba this year
is projected to plummet by half, due to
the policies of their own government.
And the thousands of private Cuban en-
trepreneurs, the taxi drivers, the
Airbnb renters, restaurants, and shops
that depend on American customers
are struggling to survive. It is a short-
sighted, anachronistic policy that is
beneath our democracy.
I and others, including Republicans,
have traveled to Cuba many times over
the past 20 years, met with Cuban offi-
cials, with Cubans who have been per-
secuted for opposing the government,
and with many others. Every one of us
wants to see an end to political repres-
sion in Cuba. The arrests and mistreat-
ment of dissidents by the Cuban gov-
ernment should be condemned, just as
we should condemn such abuses by
other governments including some,
like Egypt and Turkey, whose leaders
have been welcomed at the White
House and the State Department.
Americans can travel freely to Egypt,
Turkey, and Saudi Arabia, but not to
Cuba.
The issue is how best to support the
people of Cuba who struggle to make
ends meet, and who want to live in a
country where freedom of expression
and association are protected. Anyone
who thinks that more economic pres-
sure, or ultimatums, will force the
Cuban authorities to stop arresting po-
litical dissidents and embrace democ-
racy have learned nothing from his-
tory. For more than half a century we
tried a policy of unilateral sanctions
and isolation, and it achieved neither
of those goals. Instead, it is the Cuban
people who were hurt the most. And it
provided an opening in this hemisphere
for Russia, China, and our other com-
petitors.
Change is coming to Cuba, and we
can help support that process. Or we
can sit on the sidelines and falsely
claim to be helping the Cuban people,
while pursuing a failed policy of puni-
tive sanctions. The bipartisan bill I am
introducing is about the right of Amer-
icans, not Cubans, to travel. Every
member of Congress, especially those
who have been to Cuba, should oppose
restrictions on American citizens that
have no place in the law books of a free
society.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 287—ESTAB-
LISHING APPROPRIATE THRESH-
OLDS FOR CERTAIN BUDGET
POINTS OF ORDER IN THE SEN-
ATE, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
Mr. BRAUN (for himself and Ms.
ERNST) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Budget:
S. RES. 287
Resolved,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Make Rules
Matter Act’’.
SEC. 2. THRESHOLDS FOR BUDGET POINTS OF
ORDER.
(a) THRESHOLD FOR POINT OF ORDER
AGAINST EMERGENCY DESIGNATIONS.—
(1) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the
term ‘‘emergency designation point of order’’
means a point of order raised under—
(A) section 314(e) of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 645(e));
(B) section 4(g)(3) of the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go-Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 933(g)(3)); or
(C) section 4112(e) of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th
Congress), the concurrent resolution on the
budget for fiscal year 2018.
(2) WAIVER.—In the Senate, an emergency
designation point of order may be waived or
suspended only by the affirmative vote of
two-thirds of the Members, duly chosen and
sworn.
(3) APPEAL.—In the Senate, an affirmative
vote of two-thirds of the Members, duly cho-
sen and sworn, shall be required to sustain
an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on an
emergency designation point of order.
(b) THRESHOLD FOR LARGE BUDGET IMPACT
FOR CERTAIN CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET ACT OF
1974 POINTS OF ORDER.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A point of order described
in paragraph (3) may be waived or suspended
in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of
two-thirds of the Members, duly chosen and
sworn.
(2) APPEAL.—In the Senate, an affirmative
vote of two-thirds of the Members, duly cho-
sen and sworn, shall be required to sustain
an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on a
point of order described in paragraph (3).
(3) DESCRIPTION OF LARGE BUDGET IMPACT.—
A point of order described in this paragraph
is a point of order under section 302(f)(2) or
311(a)(2)(A) of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 633(f)(2), 642(a)(2)(A)) against
legislation that would, within the time peri-
ods applicable to the point of order, as deter-
mined by the Chairman of the Committee on
the Budget of the Senate, cause budget au-
thority or outlays to exceed the applicable
allocation, suballocation, level, or aggregate
by more than $5,000,000,000.
(c) DE MINIMIS BUDGET IMPACT.—For a vio-
lation for which the absolute value of the
violation is not more than $500,000, a point of
order shall not lie—
(1) under the Congressional Budget and Im-
poundment Control Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 621
et seq.) (except for a point of order under sec-
tion 302 or 311 of such Act (2 U.S.C. 633, 642));
or
(2) under any concurrent resolution on the
budget.
(d) THRESHOLD FOR INCREASING SHORT-TERM
DEFICITS.—
(1) REDUCTION IN NET INCREASE IN THE DEF-
ICIT.—In the Senate, section 404(a) of S. Con.
Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concurrent reso-
lution on the budget for fiscal year 2010,
shall be applied by substituting
‘‘$1,000,000,000’’ for ‘‘$10,000,000,000’’.
(2) WAIVER AND APPEAL FOR LARGE BUDGET
IMPACT IN THE SENATE.—
(A) WAIVER.—In the Senate, section 404(a)
of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the con-
current resolution on the budget for fiscal
year 2010, may be waived or suspended by the
affirmative vote of two-thirds of the Mem-
bers, duly chosen and sworn, if the net in-
crease in the deficit in any fiscal year ex-
ceeds $10,000,000,000.
(B) APPEAL.—In the Senate, an affirmative
vote of two-thirds of the Members, duly cho-
sen and sworn, shall be required to sustain
an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on a
point of order raised under section 404(a) of
S. Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concur-
rent resolution on the budget for fiscal year
2010, if the net increase in the deficit in any
fiscal year exceeds $10,000,000,000.
(e) THRESHOLD FOR INCREASING LONG-TERM
DEFICITS.—
(1) REDUCTION IN NET INCREASE IN THE DEF-
ICIT.—In the Senate, subsections (a) and
(b)(1) of section 3101 of S. Con. Res. 11 (114th
Congress), the concurrent resolution on the
budget for fiscal year 2016, shall each be ap-
plied by substituting ‘‘$1,000,000,000’’ for
‘‘$5,000,000,000’’.
(2) WAIVER AND APPEAL FOR LARGE BUDGET
IMPACT IN THE SENATE.—
(A) WAIVER.—In the Senate, section
3101(b)(1) of S. Con. Res. 11 (114th Congress),
the concurrent resolution on the budget for
fiscal year 2016, may be waived or suspended
by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
Members, duly chosen and sworn, if the net
increase in on-budget deficits in any 10-fis-
cal-year period exceeds $10,000,000,000.
(B) APPEAL.—In the Senate, an affirmative
vote of two-thirds of the Members, duly cho-
sen and sworn, shall be required to sustain
an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on a
point of order raised under section 3101(b)(1)
of S. Con. Res. 11 (114th Congress), the con-
current resolution on the budget for fiscal
year 2016, if the net increase in on-budget
deficits in any 10-fiscal-year period exceeds
$10,000,000,000.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 288—AFFIRM-
ING THE IMPORTANCE OF THE
LONG-TERM SOLVENCY OF THE
HIGHWAY TRUST FUND
Mr. BRAUN submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works:
S. RES. 288
Whereas, in July 2019, the public debt of
the United States was more than
$22,000,000,000,000, increasing each year by a
Federal budget deficit of nearly
$1,000,000,000,000;
Whereas the Federal Government is facing
shortfalls in several Federal trust funds, in-
cluding the Highway Trust Fund, which is
expected to reach insolvency in July 2021;
Whereas the infrastructure of the United
States needs substantial investment in order
to continue supporting the growing economy
of the United States;
Whereas, according to a report published in
2015 by the Federal Highway Administration,
20 percent of the Federal-aid highways in the
United States were in poor condition;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29JY6.024 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5148 July 29, 2019
Whereas short-term extensions providing
funding to the Highway Trust Fund do not
provide the certainty needed by States and
local governments to enter into long-term
roadbuilding contracts; and
Whereas short-term extensions providing
funding to the Highway Trust Fund, based
solely on deficit spending, exacerbate the
problem described in the preceding whereas
clause and only serve to postpone solving the
problem: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that—
(1) the Highway Trust Fund should achieve
long-term solvency through user fees; and
(2) any spending on Federal highway pro-
grams during the next reauthorization pe-
riod that exceeds current Highway Trust
Fund revenues and balances should be fully
offset.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 289—EX-
PRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE THAT SOCIALISM POSES
A SIGNIFICANT THREAT TO
FREEDOM, LIBERTY, AND ECO-
NOMIC PROSPERITY
Mr. DAINES submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 289
Whereas Merriam-Webster Dictionary de-
fines socialism as—
(1) ‘‘any of various economic and political
theories advocating collective or govern-
mental ownership and administration of the
means of production and distribution of
goods’’; and
(2) ‘‘a system of society or group living in
which there is no private property’’;
Whereas socialism and the policies advo-
cated by self-described ‘‘democratic social-
ists’’ have an underlying historical connec-
tion to the Marxist theory;
Whereas history has witnessed countless
failed Marxist-inspired regimes;
Whereas, because of the perverse incen-
tives and inherent flaws of the Marxist the-
ory, socialism inevitably leads to societal
rot, resulting in devastation, economic pov-
erty, and destruction;
Whereas prominent elected officials in the
Senate and the House of Representatives are
self-described socialists and espouse socialist
proposals;
Whereas socialist policies such as the
Green New Deal and socialized medicine
would—
(1) eliminate the private property rights of
all people of the United States; and
(2) force taxpayers to pay trillions of dol-
lars to implement;
Whereas Alexis de Tocqueville wrote, ‘‘De-
mocracy and socialism have nothing in com-
mon but one word, equality. But notice the
difference: while democracy seeks equality
in liberty, socialism seeks equality in re-
straint and servitude.’’;
Whereas Margaret Thatcher once stated,
‘‘Socialist governments . . . always run out
of other people’s money’’, and thus the way
to prosperity is for the state to give ‘‘the
people more choice to spend their own
money in their own way’’;
Whereas free-market capitalism is the
greatest engine for human advancement in
the history of the world, bringing more peo-
ple out of poverty and into prosperity than
any economic model in the history of man-
kind;
Whereas the United States is the single
greatest country in the history of the world,
due in large part to its system of govern-
ment that secures the private property
rights of all citizens through the genius of
the Constitution of the United States; and
Whereas, on February 5, 2019, in the State
of the Union address, President Donald J.
Trump declared—
(1) ‘‘We are alarmed by new calls to adopt
socialism in our country’’; and
(2) ‘‘America will never be a socialist coun-
try’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) acknowledges that Marxism and social-
ism are failed ideologies;
(2) recognizes that socialism poses a sig-
nificant threat to the freedom, liberty, and
economic prosperity of all countries and peo-
ple around the world;
(3) accepts that socialism is a failed experi-
ment of governance that inevitably ends in
misery and suffering;
(4) declares that, throughout the history,
tradition, and national civic spirit of the
United States, the United States has been a
beacon of light shining like a lighthouse to
the rest of the world, demonstrating that
freedom and liberty are the surest founda-
tion of government; and
(5) affirms that the United States should
never be a socialist country.
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, we are
at a pivotal time in our great Nation’s
history. America was founded upon the
principles of liberty, the free enterprise
system, the promotion of national sov-
ereignty, and a strong national de-
fense. Under these principles, we have
built the greatest country in the his-
tory of the world. We have shown the
world time and again the genius of
American ingenuity and the grit of
American determination.
What makes America so great is not
that we are bonded by one ethnicity or
one race but that we are bonded to-
gether by the idea of liberty. Mon-
tanans agree. Montanans want less
government. Montanans don’t want the
hand of Big Government and Wash-
ington, DC, in their pockets, making
decisions on their behalf or limiting
their freedoms. In Montana, we under-
stand the principles of freedom.
However, a radical, socialist, far-left
movement is growing across this coun-
try and has taken root as the new voice
of the Democratic Party. My Grandpa
was a Democrat from Billings, MT. I
spent many days out with Grandpa
fishing and hunting in certain places in
Montana. I love my Grandpa dearly.
But if he were around today, he would
be appalled as a Democrat at some of
the things the far left are saying and
advocating for. The words and the ac-
tions of certain radical Members of the
Democratic House highlight this new
standard for the Democratic Party.
It was renowned economist Milton
Friedman who once said, ‘‘One of the
great mistakes is to judge policies and
programs by their intentions rather
than their results.’’
Radical Democrats are advocating
for disastrous policies that would
wreck our economy under the guise of
cleaning up the environment. Fantasy
policies, like the Green New Deal,
would be a disaster for Montana and
the American people. Under this social-
ist wish list, Montanans and millions
of the American people would have to
give up their cars and air travel. Mon-
tana truckers, our ag haulers, our pi-
lots, and the industries that rely on
them would be wiped out. What the so-
cialists are calling for is a disbanding
of our coal plants, leaving countless
Montana communities in the dark and
in the cold and putting many more out
of good-paying jobs and putting a di-
verse energy sector out of business.
Above all else, to fund this disaster
of a policy, it is estimated it would
take $93 trillion—that is with a ‘‘t.’’
Who do they think is going to pay for
that? It would be Montanans, Ameri-
cans, our moms and dads, our children.
Just last week in Berkley, CA, their
city council banned natural gas in new
homes. Whatever happened to sup-
porting all of the above energy agenda?
They are banning natural gas in new
homes in Berkley, CA.
Another disastrous policy that the
radical left is pushing for is this so-
called Medicare for All or rather so-
cialized medicine. They are calling for
a complete takeover of our healthcare
system by the Federal Government,
eliminating private insurance and
eliminating choice.
This so-called plan will cost the tax-
payers another $32 trillion over 10
years—$32 trillion with a ‘‘t.’’ Combine
this cost with the cost of the Green
New Deal proposal, and the country
you and I know will cease to exist. Our
economy will be destroyed.
We are also seeing far-left, radical
Democrats normalize crime and the
blatant disregard of the law with their
push for open borders. We are a sov-
ereign nation with established borders.
We are a nation based on the rule of
law.
Lost in this heated immigration de-
bate taking place at our southern bor-
der are the stories of the law-abiding,
legal American immigrants who have
fled socialist regimes for a chance at
freedom. Some of these immigrants in-
clude the Vietnamese boat people, the
Cuban refugees who fled Castro’s mur-
derous regime, and Chinese Christians
persecuted for practicing their faith.
You see, in talking to these immi-
grants—these legal immigrants—they
will tell you what socialism looks like.
They will also tell you how grateful
they are to have freedom here in Amer-
ica. They are proud to be Americans.
So we, as Americans, have a choice.
One path leads to complete government
control, undermining our Constitution
and our American way of life. The
other path is the path of freedom. You
see, capitalism and the free enterprise
system has done more than any other
system in the world to lift people out
of poverty.
As a former technology executive, I
can speak to the wonders of the free
enterprise system because I saw it hap-
pen firsthand in my hometown of Boze-
man, MT. What was once a small start-
up cloud computing business, grew into
a billion-dollar company headquartered
in Bozeman, MT, and it transformed
Bozeman into becoming one of the tech
hubs now of the West. It is all because
the American free enterprise system
thrives in innovation, and it rewards
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A29JY6.021 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5149
July 29, 2019
entrepreneurs and employees who pur-
sue their dreams and take that leap of
faith. That is what freedom looks like.
In the face of this extremism we see
bubbling up right over in that other
Chamber, the U.S. House of Represent-
atives, we must stand strong for the
values that made America what it is
today.
Therefore, today I introduce a resolu-
tion—my resolution condemning the
growing socialist movement in our
country. I ask my Senate colleagues to
join me in renouncing this ideology
taking root in our country and to stand
for freedom.
Today we make a choice—freedom or
socialism. I choose freedom.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 290—CELE-
BRATING 50 YEARS OF ENVIRON-
MENTAL PROGRESS IN THE CUY-
AHOGA RIVER VALLEY AND
LAKE ERIE
Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN) submitted the following res-
olution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 290
Whereas the Cuyahoga River is a 100-mile-
long river in the State of Ohio that flows
into Lake Erie;
Whereas the word ‘‘Cuyahoga’’ is a com-
bination of the names given to the river by
native peoples in the region and is translated
to mean ‘‘Crooked River’’;
Whereas, after generations of neglect, a
lack of clean-water protections, and decades
of industrial pollution in the Cuyahoga River
Valley, a 1968 report by the former Federal
Water Pollution Control Administration
found that the lower portion of the Cuya-
hoga River had no visible life;
Whereas oil-laden debris and pollution on
the Cuyahoga River caught fire 13 times be-
tween 1868 and 1969, inspiring the ignomin-
ious nickname ‘‘the burning river’’;
Whereas on June 22, 1969, sparks from a
railroad car passing over the Cuyahoga River
on a bridge ignited debris below, starting
what would be the last fire on the river;
Whereas a Time Magazine article on the
1969 fire alerted the public to the extent of
industrial pollution in the Cuyahoga River
Valley;
Whereas Carl B. Stokes, then mayor of
Cleveland, Ohio, testified before Congress
and called for Federal legislation to address
pollution;
Whereas, according to the Environmental
Protection Agency, the 1969 fire mobilized
public concern across the United States, re-
sulting in—
(1) the enactment of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (commonly known as
the ‘‘Clean Water Act’’) (33 U.S.C. 1251 et
seq.);
(2) the Agreement on Great Lakes Water
Quality, signed at Ottawa April 15, 1972 (23
UST 301; TIAS 7312), between the United
States and Canada;
(3) the Agreement on Great Lakes Water
Quality, 1978, signed at Ottawa November 22,
1978 (30 UST 1383; TIAS 9257), between the
United States and Canada (commonly re-
ferred to as the ‘‘Great Lakes Water Quality
Agreement’’);
(4) the establishment of the Environmental
Protection Agency; and
(5) the establishment of the Ohio Environ-
mental Protection Agency;
Whereas, according to the National Park
Service, the 1969 fire on the Cuyahoga River
helped inspire the first Earth Day in 1970;
Whereas passage of the Federal Water Pol-
lution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.)
spurred the city of Cleveland, the State of
Ohio, and a multitude of public and private
partners to improve the water quality in the
Cuyahoga River Valley;
Whereas public concern about pollution in
the Cuyahoga River Valley and the resulting
fires supported efforts led by Representatives
Ralph S. Regula and John F. Seiberling to
create the Cuyahoga Valley National Recre-
ation Area in 1974, which later became the
Cuyahoga Valley National Park;
Whereas the Cuyahoga River is now home
to more than 60 species of fish;
Whereas the industrial river valley in
downtown Cleveland, Ohio, known as ‘‘the
Flats’’, has been transformed into a center
for recreation and entertainment;
Whereas the Cuyahoga River transports
millions of tons of material to and from
local industries, supporting 15,000 direct, in-
direct, and induced jobs and producing
$1,700,000,000 in economic activity;
Whereas recreational opportunities are
available in—
(1) the Cuyahoga Valley National Park;
(2) State and county parks; and
(3) the Ohio & Erie Canal National Herit-
age Canalway;
Whereas the National Park Service and the
community partners of the National Park
Service created the Cuyahoga River Water
Trail along the entire length of the Cuya-
hoga River to increase public access, tour-
ism, and economic development; and
Whereas the rebirth of the Cuyahoga River
is a symbol of the importance of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.) and other landmark environmental
laws that ensure clean water and protect the
natural resources of the United States: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) celebrates 50 years of environmental
progress in the Cuyahoga River Valley and
Lake Erie;
(2) offers continued support for the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251
et seq.) and the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.);
(3) recognizes the transformation of the
Cuyahoga River and the Great Lakes Basin
as a model for environmental restoration;
(4) recognizes the economic benefit of the
Cuyahoga River for recreation, tourism,
commercial shipping, and job growth; and
(5) commits to continued progress in im-
proving ecosystem health, drinking water
quality, and wastewater infrastructure in
the Great Lakes Basin.
f
CELEBRATING 50 YEARS OF ENVI-
RONMENTAL PROGRESS IN THE
CUYAHOGA RIVER VALLEY AND
LAKE ERIE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 290, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 290) celebrating 50
years of environmental progress in the Cuya-
hoga River Valley and Lake Erie.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the resolution.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the question is on
adoption of the resolution.
The resolution (S. Res. 290) was
agreed to.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the preamble be agreed to
and the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
RENAMING THE SUCCESS DAM IN
TULARE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA,
AS THE RICHARD L. SCHAFER
DAM
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public
Works be discharged from further con-
sideration of H.R. 2695 and the Senate
proceed to its immediate consider-
ation.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 2695) to rename the Success
Dam in Tulare County, California, as the
Richard L. Schafer Dam.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be considered read
a third time and passed and the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (H.R. 2695) was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, JULY 30,
2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Tuesday, July 30;
further, that following the prayer and
pledge, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29JY6.011 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5150 July 29, 2019
approved to date, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day, morning business be closed,
and the Senate proceed to executive
session and resume consideration of
the Liburdi nomination under the pre-
vious order. Finally, I ask that the
Senate recess following the cloture
vote on the Hendrix nomination until
2:15 p.m. to allow for the weekly con-
ference meetings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 7:40 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday,
July 30, 2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G29JY6.042 S29JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1005
July 29, 2019
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, July
30, 2019 may be found in the Daily Di-
gest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
JULY 31
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry
To hold hearings to examine perspectives
on reauthorization of the U.S. Grain
Standards Act.
SR–328A
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of Vice Admiral Michael M.
Gilday, USN, to be Admiral and Chief
of Naval Operations, Department of De-
fense.
SD–G50
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Business meeting to consider S. 2297, to
authorize appropriations for the Coast
Guard, and S. 2299, to amend title 49,
United States Code, to enhance the
safety and reliability of pipeline trans-
portation.
SH–216
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Kenneth Charles Canterbury,
Jr., of South Carolina, to be Director,
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives, Department of Justice,
R. Austin Huffaker, Jr., to be United
States District Judge for the Middle
District of Alabama, Lee Philip
Rudofsky, to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Ar-
kansas, and Justin Reed Walker, to be
United States District Judge for the
Western District of Kentucky.
SD–226
10:30 a.m.
Committee on Finance
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nations of Brent James McIntosh, of
Michigan, to be an Under Secretary,
Brian Callanan, of New Jersey, to be
General Counsel, and Brian McGuire, of
New York, to be a Deputy Under Sec-
retary, all of the Department of the
Treasury, and Travis Greaves, of the
District of Columbia, to be a Judge of
the United States Tax Court.
SD–215
2 p.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine next steps
for positive train control implementa-
tion.
SH–216
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Indian Affairs
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nation of E. Sequoyah Simermeyer, of
Maryland, to be Chairman of the Na-
tional Indian Gaming Commission.
SD–628
AUGUST 1
10 a.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
Business meeting to consider S. 1494, to
amend the William Wilberforce Traf-
ficking Victims Protection Reauthor-
ization Act of 2008 to protect alien mi-
nors and to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to end abuse of the
asylum system and establish refugee
application and processing centers out-
side the United States, and the nomi-
nation of W. Stephen Muldrow, to be
United States Attorney for the District
of Puerto Rico, Department of Justice.
SD–226
SEPTEMBER 17
2:30 p.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition
Policy and Consumer Rights
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
enforcement of the antitrust laws.
SD–226
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M29JY8.000 E29JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D926
Monday, July 29, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S5121–S5150
Measures Introduced: Ten bills and four resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 2302–2311, and
S. Res. 287–290. Page S5141
Measures Reported:
H.R. 1388, to take lands in Sonoma County, Cali-
fornia, into trust as part of the reservation of the
Lytton Rancheria of California. (S. Rept. No.
116–67) Page S5141
Measures Passed:
50 Years of Environmental Progress in the Cuy-
ahoga River Valley and Lake Erie: Senate agreed to
S. Res. 290, celebrating 50 years of environmental
progress in the Cuyahoga River Valley and Lake
Erie. Page S5149
Richard L. Schafer Dam: Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works was discharged from further
consideration of H.R. 2695, to rename the Success
Dam in Tulare County, California, as the Richard L.
Schafer Dam, and the bill was then passed.
Page S5149
Measures Considered:
Bipartisan Budget Act—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the motion to proceed to consider-
ation of H.R. 3877, to amend the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, to es-
tablish a congressional budget for fiscal years 2020
and 2021, to temporarily suspend the debt limit.
Page S5125
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the motion to proceed to consideration of the bill,
and, in accordance with the provisions of Rule XXII
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, a vote on clo-
ture will occur upon disposition of the nomination
of Mary M. Rowland, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Illinois.
Page S5125
Veto Messages:
Resolutions of Disapproval of Proposed Trans-
fers of Certain Defense Articles and Services: By
45 yeas to 40 nays (Vote No. 231), two-thirds of the
Senators voting not having voted in the affirmative,
S.J. Res. 36, providing for congressional disapproval
of the proposed transfer to the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, the Kingdom of Spain, and the
Italian Republic of certain defense articles and serv-
ices, upon reconsideration, was rejected, and the veto
of the President was sustained. Pages S5126–34
By 45 yeas to 39 nays (Vote No. 232), two-thirds
of the Senators voting not having voted in the af-
firmative, S.J. Res. 37, providing for congressional
disapproval of the proposed export to the United
Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom of Great Brit-
ain and Northern Ireland, and the Republic of
France of certain defense articles and services, upon
reconsideration, was rejected, and the veto of the
President was sustained. Pages S5126–33, S5134
By 46 yeas to 41 nays (Vote No. 233), two-thirds
of the Senators voting not having voted in the af-
firmative, S.J. Res. 38, providing for congressional
disapproval of the proposed export to the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland of certain defense arti-
cles and services, upon reconsideration, was rejected,
and the veto of the President was sustained.
Pages S5126–33, S5134
Craft Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Kelly Craft, of Ken-
tucky, to be the Representative of the United States
of America to the United Nations, with the rank
and status of Ambassador, and the Representative of
the United States of America in the Security Council
of the United Nations, Department of State.
Pages S5125–26
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of H.R. 3877, to amend the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, to establish
a congressional budget for fiscal years 2020 and
2021, to temporarily suspend the debt limit.
Pages S5125–26
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:30 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D29JY9.REC D29JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D927
July 29, 2019
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5125
Norquist Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of David L. Norquist,
of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Defense.
Page S5126
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Kelly Craft, of Kentucky, to be
the Representative of the United States of America
to the United Nations, with the rank and status of
Ambassador, and the Representative of the United
States of America in the Security Council of the
United Nations, Department of State. Page S5126
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S5126
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5126
Liburdi and Welte Nominations—Agreement: A
unanimous-consent agreement was reached providing
that notwithstanding Rule XXII, that if cloture is
invoked on the nominations of Michael T. Liburdi,
to be United States District Judge for the District
of Arizona, and Peter D. Welte, to be United States
District Judge for the District of North Dakota, Sen-
ate vote on confirmation of the nominations, in the
order listed, at 11:30 a.m., on Tuesday, July 30,
2019. Page S5134
Liburdi Nomination—Cloture: By 51 yeas to 37
nays (Vote No. 234), Senate agreed to the motion to
close further debate on the nomination of Michael T.
Liburdi, to be United States District Judge for the
District of Arizona. Pages S5134–35
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 10:00 a.m., on Tues-
day, July 30, 2019, Senate resume consideration of
the nomination, post-cloture, under the order of
Monday, July 29, 2019. Page S5149
Welte Nomination—Cloture: Senate resumed con-
sideration of the nomination of Peter D. Welte, to
be United States District Judge for the District of
North Dakota. Pages S5135–36
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 66 yeas to 21 nays (Vote No. 235), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S5135
Messages from the House: Page S5139
Measures Referred: Page S5139
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Page S5139
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S5139
Executive Communications: Pages S5139–40
Petitions and Memorials: Pages S5140–41
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S5141–43
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S5143–47
Additional Statements: Pages S5138–39
Record Votes: Five record votes were taken today.
(Total—235) Pages S5133–35
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 7:40 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, July
30, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks of
the Majority Leader in today’s Record on page
S5149.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
The House was not in session today. The House
is scheduled to meet at 11:30 a.m. on Tuesday, July
30, 2019.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:30 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D29JY9.REC D29JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D928 July 29, 2019
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D786)
H.R. 866, to provide a lactation room in public
buildings. Signed on July 25, 2019. (Public Law
116–30)
S. 744, to amend section 175b of title 18, United
States Code, to correct a scrivener’s error. Signed on
July 25, 2019. (Public Law 116–31)
S. 998, to amend the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968 to expand support for police
officer family services, stress reduction, and suicide
prevention. Signed on July 25, 2019. (Public Law
116–32)
S. 1749, to clarify seasoning requirements for cer-
tain refinanced mortgage loans. Signed on July 25,
2019. (Public Law 116–33)
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
JULY 30, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: business meeting to con-
sider pending military nominations, 8:30 a.m., SR–222.
Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine the nom-
ination of Gen. John E. Hyten, USAF, for reappointment
to the grade of general and to be Vice Chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, 10 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: to
hold hearings to examine regulatory frameworks for dig-
ital currencies and blockchain, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: business
meeting to consider an original bill entitled, ‘‘America’s
Transportation Infrastructure Act’’, S. 1992, to amend the
FAST Act to repeal a rescission of funds, and General
Services Administration resolutions, 9 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Finance: to hold hearings to examine the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, 10:15 a.m.,
SD–215.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine the nominations of John Leslie Carwile, of Maryland,
to be Ambassador to the Republic of Latvia, Erin Eliza-
beth McKee, of California, to be Ambassador to the Inde-
pendent State of Papua New Guinea, and to serve concur-
rently and without additional compensation as Ambas-
sador to the Solomon Islands and Ambassador to the Re-
public of Vanuatu, Anthony F. Godfrey, of Virginia, to
be Ambassador to the Republic of Serbia, and Herro
Mustafa, of California, to be Ambassador to the Republic
of Bulgaria, all of the Department of State, 2:30 p.m.,
SD–419.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: busi-
ness meeting to consider the nominations of Sharon Fast
Gustafson, of Virginia, to be General Counsel, and Char-
lotte A. Burrows, of the District of Columbia, to be a
Member, both of the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, 10 a.m., SD–430.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
to hold hearings to examine unprecedented migration at
the United States southern border, focusing on what is
required to improve conditions, 10 a.m., SD–342.
Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal Man-
agement, to hold hearings to examine solutions to im-
prove Federal hiring, 2:30 p.m., SD–342.
Committee on Judiciary: Subcommittee on Intellectual
Property, to hold an oversight hearing to examine the
United States Copyright Office, 2:30 p.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to hold closed hearings to
examine certain intelligence matters, 2:30 p.m., SH–219.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of July 30 through August 2, 2019
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will resume consideration of
the nomination of Michael T. Liburdi, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Arizona,
post-cloture.
At 11:30 a.m., Senate will vote on confirmation
of the nominations of Michael T. Liburdi, to be
United States District Judge for the District of Ari-
zona, and Peter D. Welte, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the District of North Dakota.
Following disposition of the nomination of Peter
D. Welte, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke
cloture on the nomination of James Wesley Hendrix,
of Texas, to be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Texas.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: July 31,
to hold hearings to examine perspectives on reauthoriza-
tion of the U.S. Grain Standards Act, 9:30 a.m.,
SR–328A.
Committee on Armed Services: July 30, business meeting
to consider pending military nominations, 8:30 a.m.,
SR–222.
July 30, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine
the nomination of Gen. John E. Hyten, USAF, for re-
appointment to the grade of general and to be Vice
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 10 a.m., SD–G50.
July 31, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine
the nomination of Vice Admiral Michael M. Gilday,
USN, to be Admiral and Chief of Naval Operations, De-
partment of Defense, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: July
30, to hold hearings to examine regulatory frameworks
for digital currencies and blockchain, 10 a.m., SD–538.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:30 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D29JY9.REC D29JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D929
July 29, 2019
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: July
31, business meeting to consider S. 2297, to authorize
appropriations for the Coast Guard, and S. 2299, to
amend title 49, United States Code, to enhance the safety
and reliability of pipeline transportation, 10 a.m.,
SH–216.
July 31, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine
next steps for positive train control implementation, 2
p.m., SH–216.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: July 30,
business meeting to consider an original bill entitled,
‘‘America’s Transportation Infrastructure Act’’, S. 1992,
to amend the FAST Act to repeal a rescission of funds,
and General Services Administration resolutions, 9 a.m.,
SD–406.
Committee on Finance: July 30, to hold hearings to ex-
amine the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement,
10:15 a.m., SD–215.
July 31, Full Committee, business meeting to consider
the nominations of Brent James McIntosh, of Michigan,
to be an Under Secretary, Brian Callanan, of New Jersey,
to be General Counsel, and Brian McGuire, of New York,
to be a Deputy Under Secretary, all of the Department
of the Treasury, and Travis Greaves, of the District of Co-
lumbia, to be a Judge of the United States Tax Court,
10:30 a.m., SD–215.
Committee on Foreign Relations: July 30, to hold hearings
to examine the nominations of John Leslie Carwile, of
Maryland, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Latvia,
Erin Elizabeth McKee, of California, to be Ambassador to
the Independent State of Papua New Guinea, and to serve
concurrently and without additional compensation as
Ambassador to the Solomon Islands and Ambassador to
the Republic of Vanuatu, Anthony F. Godfrey, of Vir-
ginia, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Serbia, and
Herro Mustafa, of California, to be Ambassador to the
Republic of Bulgaria, all of the Department of State, 2:30
p.m., SD–419.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: July
30, business meeting to consider the nominations of Shar-
on Fast Gustafson, of Virginia, to be General Counsel,
and Charlotte A. Burrows, of the District of Columbia,
to be a Member, both of the Equal Employment Oppor-
tunity Commission, 10 a.m., SD–430.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
July 30, to hold hearings to examine unprecedented mi-
gration at the United States southern border, focusing on
what is required to improve conditions, 10 a.m., SD–342.
July 30, Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Fed-
eral Management, to hold hearings to examine solutions
to improve Federal hiring, 2:30 p.m., SD–342.
Committee on Indian Affairs: July 31, business meeting
to consider the nomination of E. Sequoyah Simermeyer,
of Maryland, to be Chairman of the National Indian
Gaming Commission, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on Judiciary: July 30, Subcommittee on Intel-
lectual Property, to hold an oversight hearing to examine
the United States Copyright Office, 2:30 p.m., SD–226.
July 31, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine
the nominations of Kenneth Charles Canterbury, Jr., of
South Carolina, to be Director, Bureau of Alcohol, To-
bacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice,
R. Austin Huffaker, Jr., to be United States District
Judge for the Middle District of Alabama, Lee Philip
Rudofsky, to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Arkansas, and Justin Reed Walker, to
be United States District Judge for the Western District
of Kentucky, 10 a.m., SD–226.
August 1, Full Committee, business meeting to con-
sider S. 1494, to amend the William Wilberforce Traf-
ficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008
to protect alien minors and to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to end abuse of the asylum system
and establish refugee application and processing centers
outside the United States, and the nomination of W. Ste-
phen Muldrow, to be United States Attorney for the Dis-
trict of Puerto Rico, Department of Justice, 10 a.m.,
SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: July 30, to hold closed
hearings to examine certain intelligence matters, 2:30
p.m., SH–219.
House Committees
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:30 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D29JY9.REC D29JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D930 July 29, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, July 30
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will resume consideration
of the nomination of Michael T. Liburdi, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Arizona, post-clo-
ture.
At 11:30 a.m., Senate will vote on confirmation of the
nominations of Michael T. Liburdi, to be United States
District Judge for the District of Arizona, and Peter D.
Welte, to be United States District Judge for the District
of North Dakota.
Following disposition of the nomination of Peter D.
Welte, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke cloture
on the nomination of James Wesley Hendrix, of Texas,
to be United States District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Texas.
(Senate will recess following the vote on the motion to invoke
cloture on the nomination of James Wesley Hendrix, until 2:15
p.m. for their respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
11:30 a.m., Tuesday, July 30
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: House will meet in Pro Forma
session at 11:30 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:30 Jul 30, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D29JY9.REC D29JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
