Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H4317
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 5, 2019 No. 94
House of Representatives
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Gracious God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day. The Members of
this people’s House will be leaving for
an extended weekend. Many will be
traveling to Normandy on the 75th an-
niversary of D-Day, a day when thou-
sands of American soldiers joined
forces with our allies to begin the lib-
eration of Europe.
As the world remembers that offen-
sive in that great war, may we here at
home be truly grateful for the sac-
rifices of so many whose efforts helped
to guarantee the conflict-free North
Atlantic world we have all lived with
through these 70-odd years since that
fateful day.
May we never forget the danger of
hypernationalism that can lead to a re-
duced respect for those who are the
‘‘other,’’ and a world where nations
when acting only in their own self-in-
terest, can fail to see Your presence in
their neighborhoods.
May all that is done this day, and in
the days to come, be for Your greater
honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentle-
woman from Massachusetts (Ms.
CLARK) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. The Chair will enter-
tain up to five requests for 1-minute
speeches on each side of the aisle.
f
HONORING ALL SERVICEMEMBERS
FOR THEIR SACRIFICES
(Mr. TAKANO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in gratitude for the bravery and
sacrifices made by American and Allied
Armed Forces on D-Day, June 6, 1944.
This week marks the 75th anniver-
sary of that longest day, a moment in
history when servicemembers from
across the globe stormed the shores of
Normandy, France, to defend liberty
and fight against the tyranny of Nazi
Germany.
And as we pause to honor and express
our gratitude to the tens of thousands
of American soldiers, sailors, and air-
men who bore the battle that day and
for many days after until victory was
achieved, we are reminded again that
the cost of freedom can be very high.
As chairman of the House Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs, it is my duty to
ensure the promises we made to vet-
erans and their survivors are kept.
To those veterans that remain with
us still to those D-Day veterans who
perished on that longest day and to
those who lived to tell the stories of
that day, I say to you that the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs is com-
mitted to honoring your legacies by
improving VA healthcare, providing ac-
countability for the fair and timely de-
livery of benefits, and to ensure that
we honor your memories.
Today I ask that all Americans re-
flect on the sacrifices made by the
greatest generation in Europe 75 years
ago and to join me in thanking those of
this generation who have stepped up
and every intervening generation who
have answered the call to serve.
f
RECOGNIZING FORT STEWART-
HUNTER ARMY AIRFIELD
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Fort Stew-
art-Hunter Army Airfield for winning
the 2019 Commander in Chief’s Annual
Award for Installation Excellence.
Conferred by the Department of De-
fense, installations compete based on a
number of categories, including unit
morale, installation management, safe-
ty, health, community relations, and
environmental stewardship. Fort Stew-
art-Hunter Army Airfield has won the
award a staggering seven times, most
recently in 2015.
I want to thank everyone at Fort
Stewart-Hunter Army Airfield, but es-
pecially Garrison Commander Colonel
Jason Wolter, whose hard work enabled
the installation to reach such a con-
sistent height of quality.
This award is the culmination of his
statement: ‘‘There’s no place other
than Fort Stewart or Hunter Army
Airfield our soldiers would rather call
home.’’
I am proud to have them in the First
Congressional District of Georgia and
proud of the work they are doing serv-
ing our country.
f
BRINGING SANCTUARY AND SAFE-
TY BACK TO AMERICAN COMMU-
NITIES
(Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN7.000 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4318 June 5, 2019
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts. Mr.
Speaker, as we commemorate D-Day
and express our heartfelt gratitude to
veterans across our great Nation, it is
also an appropriate time to think of ci-
vilians and security threats at home.
June is Gun Violence Awareness
Month and a time to reflect on the
lives we have lost to gun violence and
reinvigorate our fight to end senseless
suffering.
Just this past week, 52 people were
shot in Chicago, resulting in 10 deaths,
and 12 lives were taken in Virginia
Beach. The shooting in Virginia Beach
was the 150th mass shooting in 2019.
Just think about that and the lives
lost. Americans like Ryan Keith Cox, a
hero who helped his coworkers to safe-
ty, Mary Louise Gayle, a devoted
mother and grandmother known for
her holiday gingerbread houses, Rich-
ard Nettleton, a veteran and a die-hard
Red Sox fan, Katherine, Christopher,
Bert, Laquita, Bobby, Missy, Joshua,
Alexander, and Tara.
We are not powerless. 100 days ago
House Democrats passed two gun safe-
ty reform bills supported by over 90
percent of Americans. These bills can
save lives. We can bring sanctuary and
safety back to our communities.
We ask our Senate colleagues to do
their job and bring these life-saving
measures up for a vote.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
DESAULNIER). Pursuant to clause 8 of
rule XX, the Chair will postpone fur-
ther proceedings today on motions to
suspend the rules on which a recorded
vote or the yeas and nays are ordered,
or votes objected to under clause 6 of
rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
COASTAL AND OCEAN ACIDIFICA-
TION STRESSORS AND THREATS
RESEARCH ACT OF 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 1237) to amend the Fed-
eral Ocean Acidification Research and
Monitoring Act of 2009 to establish an
Ocean Acidification Advisory Board, to
expand and improve the research on
Ocean Acidification and Coastal Acidi-
fication, to establish and maintain a
data archive system for Ocean Acidifi-
cation data and Coastal Acidification
data, and for other purposes, as amend-
ed.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1237
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Coastal and
Ocean Acidification Stressors and Threats Re-
search Act of 2019’’ or the ‘‘COAST Research
Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PURPOSES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 12402(a) of the Fed-
eral Ocean Acidification Research and Moni-
toring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3701(a)) is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A),
by striking ‘‘development and coordination’’
and inserting ‘‘coordination and implementa-
tion’’;
(B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘acidifi-
cation on marine organisms’’ and inserting
‘‘acidification and coastal acidification on ma-
rine organisms’’; and
(C) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘estab-
lish’’ and all that follows through the semicolon
and inserting ‘‘maintain and advise an inter-
agency research, monitoring, and public out-
reach program on ocean acidification and coast-
al acidification;’’;
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘establish-
ment’’ and inserting ‘‘maintenance’’;
(3) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘and coastal
acidification’’ after ‘‘ocean acidification’’; and
(4) in paragraph (4), by inserting ‘‘and coastal
acidification that take into account other envi-
ronmental and anthropogenic stressors’’ after
‘‘ocean acidification’’.
(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENT.—Section 12402 of the Federal Ocean
Acidification Research and Monitoring Act of
2009 (33 U.S.C. 3701(a)) is amended by striking
‘‘(a) PURPOSES.—’’.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
Section 12403 of the Federal Ocean Acidifica-
tion Research and Monitoring Act of 2009 (33
U.S.C. 3702) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘of the
Earth’s oceans’’ and all that follows before the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘and changes in
the water chemistry of the Earth’s oceans,
coastal estuaries, and waterways caused by car-
bon dioxide from the atmosphere and the break-
down of organic matter’’;
(2) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘Joint Sub-
committee on Ocean Science and Technology of
the National Science and Technology Council’’
and inserting ‘‘National Science and Tech-
nology Council Subcommittee on Ocean Science
and Technology’’;
(3) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and
(3) as paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), respectively;
(4) by inserting before paragraph (2), as so re-
designated, the following new paragraph:
‘‘(1) COASTAL ACIDIFICATION.—The term
‘coastal acidification’ means the combined de-
crease in pH and changes in the water chem-
istry of coastal oceans, estuaries, and other bod-
ies of water from chemical inputs (including
carbon dioxide from the atmosphere), freshwater
inputs, and excess nutrient run-off from land
and coastal atmospheric pollution that result in
processes that release carbon dioxide, acidic ni-
trogen, and sulfur compounds as byproducts
which end up in coastal waters.’’; and
(5) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(5) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means each
State of the United States, the District of Co-
lumbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,
American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of
the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Is-
lands of the United States, and any other terri-
tory or possession of the United States.’’.
SEC. 4. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP.
Section 12404 of the Federal Ocean Acidifica-
tion Research and Monitoring Act of 2009 (33
U.S.C. 3703) is amended—
(1) in the heading, by striking ‘‘SUB-
COMMITTEE’’ and inserting ‘‘WORKING GROUP’’;
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘Joint Sub-
committee on Ocean Science and Technology of
the National Science and Technology Council
shall coordinate Federal activities on ocean
acidification and’’ and insert ‘‘Subcommittee
shall’’;
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘Wildlife
Service,’’ and inserting ‘‘Wildlife Service, the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, the En-
vironmental Protection Agency, the Department
of Agriculture, the Department of State, the De-
partment of Energy, the Department of the
Navy, the National Park Service, the Bureau of
Indian Affairs, the National Institute of Stand-
ards and Technology, the Smithsonian Institu-
tion,’’; and
(C) in paragraph (3), in the heading, by strik-
ing ‘‘CHAIRMAN’’ and inserting ‘‘CHAIR’’;
(3) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘, including
the efforts of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration to facilitate such imple-
mentation’’ after ‘‘of the plan’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘and
coastal acidification’’ after ‘‘ocean acidifica-
tion’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘and
coastal acidification’’ after ‘‘ocean acidifica-
tion’’;
(C) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and
inserting a semicolon;
(D) in paragraph (5)—
(i) by striking ‘‘developed’’ and inserting
‘‘and coastal acidification developed’’; and
(ii) by striking the period at the end and in-
serting ‘‘and coastal acidification; and’’; and
(E) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(6) ensure that each of the Federal agencies
represented on the interagency working group—
‘‘(A) participates in the Ocean Acidification
Information Exchange established under para-
graph (5); and
‘‘(B) delivers data and information to support
the data archive system established under sec-
tion 12406(d).’’;
(4) in subsection (c), in paragraph (2)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘, and to the Office of Man-
agement and Budget,’’ after ‘‘House of Rep-
resentatives’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘the
interagency research’’ and inserting ‘‘inter-
agency strategic research’’;
(5) by redesignating subsection (c) as sub-
section (d); and
(6) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(c) ADVISORY BOARD.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Chair of the Sub-
committee shall establish an Ocean Acidification
Advisory Board.
‘‘(2) DUTIES.—The Advisory Board shall—
‘‘(A) not later than 180 days before the Sub-
committee submits the most recent report under
subsection (d)(2)—
‘‘(i) review such report;
‘‘(ii) submit an analysis of such report to the
Subcommittee for consideration in the final re-
port submitted under subsection (d)(2); and
‘‘(iii) concurrently with the Subcommittee’s
final submission of the report under subsection
(d)(2), the Advisory Board shall submit a copy
of the analysis provided to the Subcommittee to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology of the House of
Representatives, and the Committee on Natural
Resources of the House of Representatives;
‘‘(B) not later than 180 days before the Sub-
committee submits the most recent strategic re-
search plan under subsection (d)(3) to Con-
gress—
‘‘(i) review such plan;
‘‘(ii) submit an analysis of such plan and the
implementation thereof to the Subcommittee for
consideration in the final strategic research
plan submitted under subsection (d)(3); and
‘‘(iii) concurrently with the Subcommittee’s
final submission of the strategic research plan
under subsection (d)(3), the Advisory Board
shall submit a copy of the analysis provided to
the Subcommittee to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the Sen-
ate, the Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology of the House of Representatives, and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K05JN7.002 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4319
June 5, 2019
Committee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives;
‘‘(C) provide ongoing advice to the Sub-
committee and the interagency working group
on matters related to Federal activities on ocean
acidification and coastal acidification;
‘‘(D) advise the Subcommittee and the inter-
agency working group on—
‘‘(i) efforts to coordinate research and moni-
toring activities related to ocean acidification
and coastal acidification; and
‘‘(ii) the best practices for the standards devel-
oped for data archiving under section 12406(e);
‘‘(E) publish in the Federal Register a charter;
‘‘(F) provide the Library of Congress with—
‘‘(i) the charter described in subparagraph
(E);
‘‘(ii) any schedules and minutes for meetings
of the Advisory Board;
‘‘(iii) any documents that are approved by the
Advisory Board; and
‘‘(iv) any reports and analysis prepared by
the Advisory Board; and
‘‘(G) establish a publicly accessible web page
on the website of the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration, that contains the in-
formation described in clauses (i) through (iv) of
subparagraph (F).
‘‘(3) MEMBERSHIP.—The Advisory Board shall
consist of 24 members as follows:
‘‘(A) 2 representatives of the shellfish and
crab industry.
‘‘(B) 1 representative of the finfish industry.
‘‘(C) 1 representative of seafood processors.
‘‘(D) 3 representatives from academia, includ-
ing both natural and social sciences.
‘‘(E) 1 representative of recreational fishing.
‘‘(F) 1 representative of relevant nongovern-
mental organizations.
‘‘(G) 6 representatives from relevant State,
local, and Tribal governments.
‘‘(H) 1 representative from the Alaska Ocean
Acidification Network.
‘‘(I) 1 representative from the California Cur-
rent Acidification Network.
‘‘(J) 1 representative from the Northeast
Coastal Acidification Network.
‘‘(K) 1 representative from the Southeast
Coastal Acidification Network.
‘‘(L) 1 representative from the Gulf of Mexico
Coastal Acidification Network.
‘‘(M) 1 representative from the Mid-Atlantic
Coastal Acidification Network.
‘‘(N) 1 representative from the Pacific Islands
Ocean Observing System or similar entity rep-
resenting the island territories and possessions
of the United States in the Pacific Ocean, and
the State of Hawaii.
‘‘(O) 1 representative from the Caribbean Re-
gional Association for Coastal Ocean Observing
or a similar entity representing Puerto Rico and
the U.S. Virgin Islands.
‘‘(P) 1 representative from the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration shall
serve as an ex-officio member of the Advisory
Board without a vote.
‘‘(4) APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.—The Chair
of the Subcommittee shall—
‘‘(A) appoint members to the Advisory Board
(taking into account the geographical interests
of each individual to be appointed as a member
of the Advisory Board to ensure that an appro-
priate balance of geographical interests are rep-
resented by the members of the Advisory Board)
who—
‘‘(i) represent the interest group for which
each seat is designated;
‘‘(ii) demonstrate expertise on ocean acidifica-
tion or coastal acidification and its scientific,
economic, industry, cultural, and community
impacts; and
‘‘(iii) have a record of distinguished service
with respect to ocean acidification or coastal
acidification, and such impacts;
‘‘(B) give consideration to nominations and
recommendations from the members of the inter-
agency working group and the public for such
appointments; and
‘‘(C) ensure that an appropriate balance of
scientific, industry, and geographical interests
are represented by the members of the Advisory
Board.
‘‘(5) TERM OF MEMBERSHIP.—Each member of
the Advisory Board—
‘‘(A) shall be appointed for a 5-year term; and
‘‘(B) may be appointed to more than one term.
‘‘(6) CHAIR.—The Chair of the Subcommittee
shall appoint one member of the Advisory Board
to serve as the Chair of the Advisory Board.
‘‘(7) MEETINGS.—Not less than once each cal-
endar year, the Advisory Board shall meet at
such times and places as may be designated by
the Chair of the Advisory Board, in consulta-
tion with the Chair of the Subcommittee and the
Chair of the interagency working group.
‘‘(8) BRIEFING.—The Chair of the Advisory
Board shall brief the Subcommittee and the
interagency working group on the progress of
the Advisory Board as necessary.
‘‘(9) FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ACT.—
Section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee
Act shall not apply to the Advisory Board.’’.
SEC. 5. STRATEGIC RESEARCH PLAN.
Section 12405 of the Federal Ocean Acidifica-
tion Research and Monitoring Act of 2009 (33
U.S.C. 3704) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘acidification’’ each place it
appears and inserting ‘‘acidification and coastal
acidification’’;
(B) in the first sentence—
(i) by inserting ‘‘, and not later than every 5
years thereafter’’ after ‘‘the date of enactment
of this Act’’;
(ii) by inserting ‘‘address the socioeconomic
impacts of ocean acidification and coastal acidi-
fication and to’’ after ‘‘mitigation strategies to’’;
and
(iii) by striking ‘‘marine ecosystems’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘ecosystems’’;
and
(C) in the second sentence, by inserting ‘‘and
recommendations made by the Advisory Board
in the review of the plan required under section
12404(c)(2)(B)(i)’’ after ‘‘subsection (d)’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘and social
sciences’’ after ‘‘among the ocean sciences’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘impacts’’
and inserting ‘‘impacts, including trends of
changes in ocean chemistry,’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (B)—
(I) by striking ‘‘improve the ability to assess
the’’ and inserting ‘‘assess the short-term and
long-term’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘; and’’ at the end and insert-
ing a semicolon;
(iii) by amending subparagraph (C) to read as
follows:
‘‘(C) provide information for the—
‘‘(i) development of adaptation and mitigation
strategies to address the socioeconomic impacts
of ocean acidification and coastal acidification;
‘‘(ii) conservation of marine organisms and
ecosystems; and
‘‘(iii) assessment of the effectiveness of such
adaptation and mitigation strategies; and’’; and
(iv) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(D) improve research on—
‘‘(i) ocean acidification and coastal acidifica-
tion;
‘‘(ii) the interactions between and effects of
multiple combined stressors including changes
in water chemistry, changes in sediment deliv-
ery, hypoxia, and harmful algal blooms, on
ocean acidification and coastal acidification;
and
‘‘(iii) the effect of environmental stressors on
marine resources and ecosystems;’’;
(C) in paragraph (3)—
(i) in subparagraph (F), by striking ‘‘database
development’’ and inserting ‘‘data manage-
ment’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (H) by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraphs:
‘‘(J) assessment of adaptation and mitigation
strategies; and
‘‘(K) education and outreach activities;’’;
(D) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘set forth’’
and inserting ‘‘ensure an appropriate balance of
contribution in establishing’’;
(E) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘reports’’
and inserting ‘‘the best available peer-reviewed
scientific reports’’;
(F) in paragraph (6)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘and coastal acidification’’
after ‘‘ocean acidification’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘of the United States’’ and in-
serting ‘‘within the United States’’;
(G) in paragraph (7), by striking ‘‘outline
budget requirements’’ and inserting ‘‘estimate
costs associated for full implementation of each
element of the plan by fiscal year’’;
(H) in paragraph (8)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘and coastal acidification’’
after ‘‘ocean acidification’’ each place it ap-
pears;
(ii) by striking ‘‘its’’ and inserting ‘‘their’’;
and
(iii) by striking ‘‘; and’’ at the end and insert-
ing a semicolon;
(I) in paragraph (9), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(J) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(10) describe monitoring needs necessary to
support potentially affected industry members,
coastal stakeholders, fishery management coun-
cils and commissions, non-Federal resource
managers, and scientific experts on decision-
making and adaptation related to ocean acidifi-
cation and coastal acidification.’’;
(3) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (1)(C), by striking ‘‘sur-
face’’;
(B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘and coast-
al acidification’’ after ‘‘ocean acidification’’
each place it appears;
(C) in paragraph (3)—
(i) by striking ‘‘input, and’’ and inserting ‘‘in-
puts,’’;
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, marine food webs,’’ after
‘‘marine ecosystems’’; and
(iii) by inserting ‘‘, and modeling that sup-
ports fisheries management’’ after ‘‘marine or-
ganisms’’;
(D) in paragraph (5), by inserting ‘‘and coast-
al acidification’’ after ‘‘ocean acidification’’;
and
(E) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(6) Research to understand related and cu-
mulative stressors and other biogeochemical
processes occurring in conjunction with ocean
acidification and coastal acidification.’’; and
(4) by striking subsection (e) and inserting the
following:
‘‘(e) ADVISORY BOARD EVALUATION.—Not later
than 180 days before a plan is submitted to Con-
gress, the Subcommittee shall provide the Advi-
sory Board established under section 12404(c) a
copy of the plan for purposes of review under
paragraph (2)(B)(i) of such section.
‘‘(f) PUBLICATION AND PUBLIC COMMENT.—Not
later than 90 days before the strategic research
plan, or any revision thereof, is submitted to
Congress, the Subcommittee shall publish the
plan in the Federal Register and provide an op-
portunity for submission of public comments for
a period of not less than 60 days.’’.
SEC. 6. NOAA OCEAN ACIDIFICATION ACTIVITIES.
Section 12406 of the Federal Ocean Acidifica-
tion Research and Monitoring Act of 2009 (33
U.S.C. 3705) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by
inserting ‘‘coordination,’’ after ‘‘research, moni-
toring,’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A05JN7.001 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4320 June 5, 2019
(B) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in subparagraph (B)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘including the Integrated
Ocean Observing System and the ocean observ-
ing assets of other Federal and State agencies,’’
after ‘‘ocean observing assets,’’; and
(II) by inserting ‘‘and agency and department
missions, prioritizing the location of monitoring
instruments, assets, and projects to maximize
the efficiency of resources and to optimize un-
derstanding of socioeconomic impacts and eco-
system health’’ after ‘‘research program’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (C)—
(I) by striking ‘‘adaptation’’ and inserting
‘‘adaptation and mitigation’’; and
(II) by inserting ‘‘and supporting
socioeconomically vulnerable communities and
industries’’ after ‘‘marine ecosystems’’;
(iii) in subparagraph (E), by striking ‘‘its im-
pacts’’ and inserting ‘‘their respective impacts’’;
(iv) in subparagraph (F), by striking ‘‘moni-
toring and impacts research’’ and inserting ‘‘re-
search, monitoring, and adaptation and mitiga-
tion strategies’’; and
(v) by adding at the end the following new
subparagraph:
‘‘(G) research to improve understanding of the
effect of—
‘‘(i) other environmental stressors on ocean
acidification and coastal acidification;
‘‘(ii) multiple environmental stressors on liv-
ing marine resources and coastal ecosystems;
and
‘‘(iii) adaptation and mitigation strategies to
address the socioeconomic impacts of ocean
acidification and coastal acidification.’’;
(C) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘critical re-
search projects that explore’’ and inserting
‘‘critical research and education projects that
explore and communicate’’; and
(D) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by striking
‘‘acidification’’ each place it appears and in-
serting ‘‘acidification and coastal acidifica-
tion’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsections:
‘‘(c) RELATIONSHIP TO INTERAGENCY WORKING
GROUP.—The National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration shall serve as the lead
Federal agency responsible for coordinating the
Federal response to ocean acidification and
coastal acidification, by—
‘‘(1) leading the interagency working group in
implementing the strategic research plan under
section 12405;
‘‘(2) coordinating monitoring and research ef-
forts among Federal agencies in cooperation
with State, local, and Tribal government and
international partners;
‘‘(3) maintaining an Ocean Acidification In-
formation Exchange described under section
12404(b)(5) to allow for information to be elec-
tronically accessible, including information—
‘‘(A) on ocean acidification developed through
or used by the ocean acidification program de-
scribed under section 12406(a); or
‘‘(B) that would be useful to State govern-
ments, local governments, Tribal governments,
resource managers, policymakers, researchers,
and other stakeholders in mitigating or adapt-
ing to the impacts of ocean acidification and
coastal acidification; and
‘‘(4) establishing and maintaining the data ar-
chive system under subsection (d).
‘‘(d) DATA ARCHIVE SYSTEM.—
‘‘(1) MANAGEMENT.—The Secretary, in coordi-
nation with members of the interagency working
group, shall provide for the long-term steward-
ship of, and access to, data relating to ocean
acidification and coastal acidification by estab-
lishing and maintaining a data archive system
that the National Center for Environmental In-
formation uses to process, store, archive, provide
access to, and incorporate to the extent possible,
such data collected—
‘‘(A) through relevant federally-funded re-
search; and
‘‘(B) by a Federal agency, State agency, local
agency, Tribe, academic scientist, citizen sci-
entist, or industry organization.
‘‘(2) EXISTING GLOBAL OR NATIONAL DATA AS-
SETS.—In establishing and maintaining the data
archive system under paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall ensure that existing global or na-
tional data assets (including the data assets
maintained by the National Centers for Envi-
ronmental Information, the Integrated Ocean
Observing System, and other existing data sys-
tems within Federal agencies) are incorporated
to the greatest extent possible.
‘‘(e) STANDARDS, PROTOCOLS, AND PROCE-
DURES.—With respect to the data described in
subsection (d), the Secretary, in coordination
with members of the interagency working group,
shall establish and revise as necessary the
standards, protocols, or procedures for—
‘‘(1) processing, storing, archiving, and pro-
viding access to such data;
‘‘(2) the interoperability and intercalibration
of such data;
‘‘(3) the collection of any metadata under-
lying such data; and
‘‘(4) sharing such data with State, local, and
Tribal government programs, potentially af-
fected industry members, coastal stakeholders,
fishery management councils and commissions,
non-Federal resource managers, and academia.
‘‘(f) DISSEMINATION OF OCEAN ACIDIFICATION
DATA AND COASTAL ACIDIFICATION DATA.—The
Secretary, in coordination with members of the
interagency working group, shall disseminate
the data described under subsection (d) to the
greatest extent practicable by sharing such data
on full and open access exchanges, including
the Ocean Acidification Information Exchange
described in section 12404(b)(5).
‘‘(g) REQUIREMENT.—Recipients of grants from
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration under this subtitle that collect data de-
scribed under subsection (d) shall—
‘‘(1) collect such data in accordance with the
standards, protocols, or procedures established
pursuant to subsection (e); and
‘‘(2) submit such data to the data archive sys-
tem under subsection (d), in accordance with
any rules promulgated by the Secretary.’’.
SEC. 7. NSF OCEAN ACIDIFICATION ACTIVITIES.
Section 12407 of the Federal Ocean Acidifica-
tion Research and Monitoring Act of 2009 (33
U.S.C. 3706) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘ocean acidification’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘ocean acidifica-
tion and coastal acidification’’;
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘continue’’ and all that follows
through ‘‘which shall’’ ;
(ii) by striking ‘‘proposals for research’’ and
inserting ‘‘proposals for the researching’’; and
(iii) by striking ‘‘its impacts’’ and inserting
‘‘their respective impacts’’;
(B) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘marine eco-
systems’’ and inserting ‘‘ecosystems’’;
(C) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘; and’’ at
the end and inserting a semicolon;
(D) in paragraph (3)—
(i) by striking ‘‘and its impacts’’ and inserting
‘‘and their respective impacts’’; and
(ii) by striking the period at the end and in-
serting ‘‘; and’’; and
(E) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(4) adaptation and mitigation strategies to
address socioeconomic effects of ocean acidifica-
tion and coastal acidification.’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) REQUIREMENT.—Recipients of grants from
the National Science Foundation under this
subtitle that collect data described under section
12406(d) shall—
‘‘(1) collect data in accordance with the
standards, protocols, or procedures established
pursuant to section 12406(e); and
‘‘(2) submit such data to the Director and the
Secretary, in accordance with any rules promul-
gated by the Director or the Secretary.’’.
SEC. 8. NASA OCEAN ACIDIFICATION ACTIVITIES.
Section 12408 of the Federal Ocean Acidifica-
tion Research and Monitoring Act of 2009 (33
U.S.C. 3707) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘ocean acidification’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘ocean acidifica-
tion and coastal acidification’’;
(2) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘its impacts’’
and inserting ‘‘their respective impacts’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
subsection:
‘‘(d) REQUIREMENT.—Researchers from the
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
under this subtitle that collect data described
under section 12406(d) shall—
‘‘(1) collect such data in accordance with the
standards, protocols, or procedures established
pursuant to section 12406(e); and
‘‘(2) submit such data to the Administrator
and the Secretary, in accordance with any rules
promulgated by the Administrator or the Sec-
retary.’’.
SEC. 9. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
Section 12409 of the Federal Ocean Acidifica-
tion Research and Monitoring Act of 2009 (33
U.S.C. 3708) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘subtitle—’’
and all that follows through paragraph (4) and
inserting the following: ‘‘subtitle $30,500,000 for
each of the fiscal years 2020 through 2024.’’; and
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘subtitle—’’
and all that follows through paragraph (4) and
inserting the following: ‘‘subtitle $20,000,000 for
each of the fiscal years 2020 through 2024.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous materials on H.R.
1237, the bill now under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I rise in support of H.R. 1237, the
COAST Research Act of 2019. Our Na-
tion is facing an invisible but growing
threat: ocean acidification. For the
last 200 years, the oceans have soaked
up about one-third of the excess carbon
dioxide in the atmosphere from the
burning of fossil fuels causing the
oceans to become more acidic.
The science is clear. As spelled out in
the Fourth National Climate Assess-
ment and the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change Special Report,
ocean acidification is causing the
chemistry of the oceans to change at
an unprecedented rate.
Ocean acidification makes it more
difficult for shelled organisms like oys-
ters, mussels, clams, and corals to
build their shells and skeletons and has
potentially devastating effects on ma-
rine ecosystems.
The effects of ocean acidification are
already being seen and felt today in
our coastal communities around the
Nation.
Congress acted and passed the Fed-
eral Ocean Acidification Research and
Monitoring Act in 2009, which cata-
lyzed research and monitoring efforts
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN7.001 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4321
June 5, 2019
to better understand ocean acidifica-
tion and its impacts. While this bill has
successfully increased our under-
standing of ocean acidification, the
Federal investment in research has
been relatively small compared to the
size of the problem.
b 0915
H.R. 1237 updates and reauthorizes
our Federal ocean acidification re-
sponse and expands the scope of the
Federal efforts on this important issue.
H.R. 1237 also designates the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration as the lead Federal agen-
cy, which formalizes the leadership
role it has played in conducting ocean
acidification research and monitoring
over the last decade.
Ocean acidification threatens the vi-
tality of our coastal economies. We
need to get ahead of the problem of
ocean acidification before it causes
even greater economic harm to our
coast. We need to have a much better
understanding of ocean acidification in
order to mitigate and adapt to its ef-
fects.
H.R. 1237, along with the three other
ocean acidification bills being consid-
ered today, offers a path toward solu-
tions. If we don’t act now, we risk
going down an irreversible path.
June is World Oceans Month, and I
see no better time for the U.S. House of
Representatives to pass legislation to
support the health of the oceans than
now.
I want to take a brief moment to rec-
ognize the efforts of the sponsor of the
bill, the gentlewoman from Oregon
(Ms. BONAMICI). She has been a cham-
pion of this issue during her time here
in the House and has been relentless in
her efforts to authorize this program.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
letters from Earthjustice, Ocean Con-
servancy, the Northwest Association of
Networked Ocean Observing Systems,
the Integrated Ocean Observing Sys-
tem Association, and the Pacific Coast
Shellfish Growers Association in sup-
port of this bill.
EARTHJUSTICE,
June 4, 2019.
Re Earthjustice supports H.R. 1237, the
Coastal and Ocean Acidification
Stressors and Threats Research Act of
2019.
Hon. SUZANNE BONAMICI,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN BONAMICI: On behalf
of our supporters and staff nationwide, we
are writing to voice our strong support for
the Coastal and Ocean Acidification
Stressors and Threats (COAST) Act of 2019
(H.R. 1237). Ocean acidification is a serious
global threat, as our oceans calibrate our at-
mosphere and maintain the conditions that
have supported human life for millennia.
This vital legislation leads us towards solu-
tions that secure our ecosystems, our econo-
mies, and our health.
Ocean acidification has devastated coastal
communities by eroding the sources of their
livelihood and protection against ocean
events. Acidic waters imperil everything
from cod larvae and lobsters, to plankton
and coral reefs. The process acidification
sets into motion will cause increasingly ex-
pensive damage on scales larger than we’ve
already seen in our Pacific Northwest shell-
fish farms. Americans will take the hit, ei-
ther in the grocery store, or—for coastal re-
gions—in their jobs and their homes. How-
ever, immediate action can halt plunging pH
levels and promote resilience in changing
temperatures.
The COAST Research Act jumpstarts
ocean recovery and helps communities cope
with ocean acidification by updating the
Federal Ocean Acidification Research and
Monitoring Act (FOARAM) to face current
threats. Funding FOARAM through 2023 en-
sures we don’t backslide in protecting our-
selves against ocean acidification, just as
the danger is increasing. Incorporating the
best available data on the full effects of
ocean acidification, including socioeconomic
and regional variations, ensures our national
response to the problem works for the whole
nation. Establishing an advisory board that
represents and coordinates the diverse stake-
holders impacted by ocean acidification en-
sures interests at all level—including indus-
try, recreation, and conservation—are ac-
counted for in federal action.
Bipartisan support for the COAST Re-
search Act speaks to the seriousness of the
problem and the efficiency of this proposed
solution. Neither Democrats nor Republicans
are willing to watch our blue economy dis-
solve in increasingly acidic waters. Both par-
ties support urgent action to stabilize our
oceans and fortify them against future
changes. This bill provides the funding and
strategy to do just that.
Without action, our ocean ecosystems and
dependent economies may be barren by the
end of this century. Congress has the oppor-
tunity to reverse this trend and keep our
coasts and oceans vibrant and bountiful. We
greatly appreciate your leadership in
crafting the bill that can make such reversal
possible.
Sincerely,
MARJORIE MULHALL,
Legislative Director for Lands,
Wildlife, and Oceans, Earthjustice.
OCEAN CONSERVANCY,
Washington, DC, February 27, 2019.
Hon. SUZANNE BONAMICI,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE BONAMICI: On behalf
of Ocean Conservancy, please accept this let-
ter of support for H.R. 1237, the Coastal and
Ocean Acidification Stressors and Threats
(COAST) Research Act of 2019. Americans de-
pend on a healthy ocean, and ocean acidifica-
tion threatens millions of jobs and liveli-
hoods, cultures, and ways of life, from the
Pacific Northwest’s shellfish industry to
Florida’s coral reef tourism. We believe the
COAST Research Act strengthens our na-
tion’s investments in ocean and coastal
acidification, and we are proud to offer our
support for this legislation.
From coast to coast, ocean acidification is
having a broad range of impacts on the
health of our ocean and coastal commu-
nities. Coastal industries are continuing to
face the reality of an increasingly acidic
ocean. In 2017, researchers at Oregon State
University recorded some of the highest lev-
els of ocean acidification in the world off the
coast of the Pacific Northwest. Additionally,
63% of test sites on the west coast experi-
enced levels of acidification known to cause
commercial oyster production failures. From
the Atlantic to the Pacific, ocean and coast-
al acidification has had extensive biological
and socioeconomic impacts.
In 2009, Congress recognized the urgent
need for federal investments in ocean acidifi-
cation research and monitoring, and subse-
quently passed the Federal Ocean Acidifica-
tion Research and Monitoring (FOARAM)
Act of 2009. FOARAM established the federal
government’s work on ocean acidification by
creating the NOAA Ocean Acidification Pro-
gram and an interagency working group on
ocean acidification. Much of our knowledge
and understanding of ocean acidification
that has emerged in the last decade can be
credited to the federal funding authorized by
FOARAM. The law’s authorization, however,
expired in 2012, and there are changes that
can be made to further improve our ability
to understand acidification in the open ocean
as well as in the coastal zone.
We believe the COAST Research Act will
help our nation and coastal communities
better prepare for the effects from ocean and
coastal acidification. Thank you for your
leadership on this issue, and we look forward
to working with you to craft solutions for
our changing ocean environment.
Sincerely,
SARAH COOLEY, PH.D.,
Director, Ocean Acidification
Program, Ocean Conservancy.
NORTHWEST ASSOCIATION OF
NETWORKED OCEAN OBSERVING SYSTEMS,
Washington, DC, March 7, 2019.
Hon. SUZANNE BONAMICI,
House of Representatives,
Washington DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN BONAMICI: As the
Director of the Northwest Association of
Ocean Observing Systems (NANOOS), I write
in support of the Coastal and Ocean Acidifi-
cation Stressors and Threats (COAST) Re-
search Act.
NANOOS provides access to near-real time
observations, forecasts, and other tools that
can be used to observe water properties in
the Salish Sea and the coastal waters off
Washington and Oregon. NANOOS can only
serve our stakeholders via NOAA’s Inte-
grated Ocean Observing System (IOOS),
which links together Federal agencies with
our collective of local universities, govern-
ment agencies, tribes, nonprofits, and indus-
try organizations who collect quality ocean-
ographic and meteorological data from
moorings, buoys, and satellites from across
the Pacific Northwest region. But our re-
sources are limited and this COAST Re-
search Act would help to highlight the pay-
off investments can make.
In the Pacific Northwest, we know that
ocean acidification is an issue already, as
witnessed by the difference that monitoring
water chemistry has made to shellfish grow-
ers. We know that impacts from ocean acidi-
fication may affect shellfish harvesters, fish-
ermen, resource managers, and tribal and
other coastal communities. NANOOS’ work
with IOOS and NOAA’s Ocean Acidification
Program have been instrumental in aiding
adaptation.
The COAST Research Act will enhance
these and other efforts to understand, mon-
itor, and manage the nation’s ability to re-
spond and adapt to ocean acidification.
NANOOS will be better able to meet the
needs of our stakeholders if this Act is
passed.
My thanks for your leadership and in-
sights.
Sincerely,
JAN NEWTON,
NANOOS Executive Director.
IOOS ASSOCIATION,
March 5, 2019.
Hon. SUZANNE BONAMICI,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN BONAMICI: On behalf
of the Integrated Ocean Observing System
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K05JN7.004 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4322 June 5, 2019
(IOOS) Association and its national network
of eleven coastal observing systems, I write
to support the Coastal and Ocean Acidifica-
tion Stressors and Threats (COAST) Re-
search Act.
NOAA’s Integrated Ocean Observing Sys-
tem (IOOS) links together Federal agencies
and eleven Regional Associations (RAs) to
design and to operate regional observing sys-
tems to provide timely and reliable data and
information on our oceans, coasts, and Great
Lakes. Coastal acidification is becoming an
even more pressing concern for many of our
stakeholders and users, such as shellfish
growers, shellfish harvesters, fishermen, re-
source managers, and coastal communities.
The impacts of coastal acidification vary,
and each system must be tailored to the
unique situation of the region. The IOOS
RAs work closely with NOAA’s Ocean Acidi-
fication Program to understand the regional
context, to deploy and operate sensors, sup-
port the data that can detect and monitor
acidification to support and improve warn-
ings and alerts and to provide for the sharing
and integration of data.
The COAST Research Act will enhance
these and other efforts to understand, moni-
toring and manage the nation’s ability to re-
spond and adapt to ocean acidification. The
Act does this be expanding the Advisory
Board to include representatives of the vari-
ety of industries and stakeholder impacted
by ocean acidification, expanding the stra-
tegic plan for research and monitoring, and
expanding the role of the Federal agencies
for addressing ocean acidification.
Sincerely,
ELLA (JOSIE) QUINTRELL,
Director.
PACIFIC COAST SHELLFISH
GROWERS ASSOCIATION,
March 9, 2019.
Hon. SUZANNE BONAMICI,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE BONAMICI: On behalf
of the members of Pacific Coast Shellfish
Growers Association (PCSGA), I am submit-
ting this letter of support for H.B. 1237, the
Coastal and Ocean Acidification Stressors
and Threats (COAST) Research Act of 2019.
Shellfish growers were the first community
to call attention to the problems associated
with ocean acidification when, in 2007, they
experienced sever oyster larvae mortality in
two out of three major west coast shellfish
hatcheries. Since then, PCSGA has engaged
in several local, state, and federal efforts and
initiatives to ensure a future for this his-
toric industry.
Shellfish farming on the west coast began
in the late 1800’s, fueled the California Gold
Rush and was the reason for the development
of many coastal towns. Today, PCSGA
proudly represents 120 shellfish farms in
Alaska, Washington, Oregon, California and
Hawaii which farm mussels, clams, oysters
and geoduck. Our members not only produce
sustainable, healthy, food, but also provide
significant ecosystem services such as aquat-
ic habitat and water filtration, and support
thousands of family-wage jobs within rural
coastal communities.
For nearly a decade, the shellfish industry
has benefited from NOAA’s Ocean Acidifica-
tion Program and the Integrated Ocean Ob-
serving System (IOOS), both of which relate
to the Federal Ocean Acidification Research
and Monitoring (FOARAM) Act of 2009.
These programs and the directives within
FOARAM have influenced the way shellfish
growers operate their farms among the un-
certainty of changing ocean conditions. His-
torically, growers only consulting their tide
charts. Now, growers rely upon a variety of
real-time data and tools to understand the
ocean changes and adapt methods and prac-
tices which allow them to continue farming
in a productive and profitable manner. There
much work ahead of us and much yet to
learn. COAST Research Act provides an es-
sential pathway forward.
We are excited by the intent of COAST Re-
search Act and the opportunities it provides.
Not only is it a reasonable follow up to
FOARAM but it also allows us to continue
asking questions and seek innovative ap-
proaches to mitigate the impacts related to
ocean acidification.
Thank you very much for your leadership
on this and for your commitment to ensur-
ing the long-term health of our coastal and
marine areas upon which shellfish growers
depend.
Respectfully,
MARGARET A. PILARO,
Executive Director.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I strongly support this bipartisan bill,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1237, the COAST Research Act of 2019.
This bipartisan legislation would reau-
thorize and modernize ocean acidifica-
tion research and monitoring pro-
grams.
Ocean acidification is the result of a
gradual decrease in pH in ocean chem-
istry. A small shift in pH can have a se-
rious effect on marine ecosystems, in-
cluding shellfish habitat, coral reefs,
and fisheries habitat.
Congress recognized the need for a
better understanding of the cause and
the effects of ocean acidification by
passing the Federal Ocean Acidifica-
tion Research and Monitoring Act of
2009. This legislation created a frame-
work for science organizations such as
NOAA and the National Science Foun-
dation to dedicate resources to study-
ing the phenomenon. This program pro-
vided valuable information to the sci-
entific community to better under-
stand what caused ocean acidification
and how to begin addressing this issue.
H.R. 1237 reauthorizes and modern-
izes those efforts by updating the stra-
tegic plan governing the Federal Gov-
ernment’s research efforts, strength-
ening cooperation among scientific
agencies. It designates NOAA as the
lead agency for coordinating Federal
efforts for addressing the Federal re-
sponse to ocean acidification. Addi-
tionally, the bill clarifies that all fed-
erally funded research conducted in
connection with the program is to be
made publicly available.
This bill is the result of years of
work in building a consensus among
stakeholders, ranging from ocean con-
servation groups and sportsmen to
coastal communities, about how best
to address this problem moving for-
ward.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield such time as she may consume
to the gentlewoman from Oregon (Ms.
BONAMICI).
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairwoman JOHNSON for yielding
time, also for her leadership on the
committee, and I thank Chairwoman
JOHNSON and Ranking Member LUCAS
for their support of this legislation.
I rise today in support of the Coastal
and Ocean Acidification Stressors and
Threats, or COAST, Research Act, my
bipartisan bill to expand scientific re-
search and monitoring of ocean and
coastal acidification.
According to the Fourth National
Climate Assessment, catastrophic car-
bon dioxide concentrations are now
higher than at any time in the last 3
million years. Approximately one-third
of the carbon dioxide in the atmos-
phere dissolves into our oceans and es-
tuaries, causing them to become more
acidic.
In addition to atmospheric carbon di-
oxide, our oceans, estuaries, and coast-
al waterways are absorbing chemical
inputs and excess nutrient runoff from
land and coastal pollution.
Our understanding of the long-term
consequences of changes in water
chemistry on our marine ecosystem is
still limited, but we do know that
ocean and coastal acidification make it
difficult for marine organisms to build
their shells and skeletal structures.
Some finfish, including endangered
salmon in the Pacific Northwest, lose
their sense of smell that they use for
identifying prey, reproducing, and
navigating their habitats.
Ocean acidification events are only
projected to become more intense,
longer, and increasingly common, espe-
cially on the Pacific Coast.
The COAST Research Act would im-
prove scientific research on ocean and
coastal acidification in the context of
other environmental stressors and di-
rect Federal agencies to assess adapta-
tion and mitigation strategies. Impor-
tantly, the bill also expands the defini-
tion of ocean acidification to include
estuaries and to recognize mechanisms
that cause changes in coastal chem-
istry.
As chair of the Interagency Working
Group on Ocean Acidification, NOAA is
already leading interdisciplinary ef-
forts to expand our understanding of
changing ocean conditions. This bill
would designate NOAA as the lead Fed-
eral agency responsible for imple-
menting the Federal response to ocean
and coastal acidification. This is a
pragmatic response to calls for an
interdependent national ocean acidifi-
cation program office and rec-
ommendations from a September 2014
Government Accountability Office re-
port.
Ocean acidification research is still
in its infancy, and the best way to
mitigate its effects is through region-
ally coordinated scientific research.
The COAST Research Act directs
NOAA to maintain a data archive sys-
tem to process, store, archive, and pro-
vide access to data on ocean and coast-
al acidification from federally funded
research, including existing global or
national datasets and research from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN7.004 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4323
June 5, 2019
State and local agencies, Tribes, aca-
demic scientists, citizen scientists, and
industry organizations.
Additionally, the COAST Research
Act would increase our understanding
of the socioeconomic effects of ocean
and coastal acidification and engage
stakeholders. The bill creates an advi-
sory board comprised of representa-
tives of the shellfish and crab industry;
finfish industry; seafood processors;
recreational fishing; academia; non-
governmental organizations; State,
local, and Tribal governments; and re-
gional coastal acidification networks.
This regionally balanced group will ad-
vise the interagency working group on
ocean and coastal acidification re-
search and monitoring activities.
Our oceans and estuaries are facing
the brunt of our inaction to reduce an-
thropogenic carbon emissions. We
know that even if carbon dioxide emis-
sions are halted today, many of the ef-
fects for our oceans will continue to
occur over the course of the next few
decades.
The COAST Research Act will sup-
port vulnerable communities, indus-
tries, and coastal and ocean managers
by strengthening research on how they
can best prepare and, when possible,
adapt to ocean and coastal acidifica-
tion. Oregon’s shellfish industry and
researchers at Oregon State University
have collaborated on ocean acidifica-
tion mitigation strategies that have
helped the shellfish industry survive.
Their research demonstrates what is
possible when we invest in science and
research to help coastal communities
adapt to climate change.
Our oceans and estuaries are resil-
ient, and we can help them heal, but we
cannot afford to wait any longer. This
is National Ocean Month and Capitol
Hill Ocean Week, a good time to act to
help protect the oceans and our planet.
Mr. Speaker, I want to close by
thanking, again, my colleagues, Rep-
resentative YOUNG, Representative
POSEY, and Representative PINGREE,
for their leadership on this issue. I
truly appreciate the support from my
fellow House Oceans Caucus and Con-
gressional Estuary Caucus co-chairs. I
also want to, again, thank Chairwoman
JOHNSON and Ranking Member LUCAS
for their support.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
letters from the Oregon Coordinating
Council on Ocean Acidification and Hy-
poxia and Oregon State University in
support of the COAST Research Act.
THE OREGON COORDINATING COUNCIL
ON OCEAN ACIDIFICATION AND HY-
POXIA,
March 8, 2019.
Re Coastal and Ocean Acidification Stressors
and Threats (COAST) Research Act.
Hon. SUZANNE BONAMICI,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE BONAMICI: As the
Co-Chairs of the State legislatively man-
dated, Oregon Coordinating Council on
Ocean Acidification and Hypoxia (or ‘‘Oregon
OAH Council’’), we appreciate the oppor-
tunity to provide you with a letter of strong
support for the Coastal and Ocean Acidifica-
tion Stressors and Threats (COAST) Re-
search Act. Addressing intensifying ocean
acidification (OA) conditions here in Oregon,
as well as across the United States, is crit-
ical to our Nations understanding of larger
impacts from CO2 emissions.
Oregon is among the first places in the
world to observe direct impacts of ocean
acidification and hypoxia (OAH), due to our
unique geographic and oceanographic con-
text, putting our fragile marine ecosystem
at risk. Our coastal economies rely on our
vibrant marine ecosystem. Our nearshore
waters are home to sport and commercial
fisheries, all of the State’s mariculture oper-
ations, and contain critical nursery grounds
for economically important species including
rockfish, oysters, salmon, pink shrimp, and
Dungeness crab. Oregon is not alone in expe-
riencing the impacts from OA or hypoxia.
Through actions such as those in the COAST
Research Act we must act together as Amer-
icans to develop solutions for our coastal
communities, economies, and ecosystems to
prepare for future conditions.
In the coming years, the Oregon OAH
Council will continue to take a thoughtful,
collaborative, science-based approach to de-
veloping recommendations to address OAH
in our state and beyond. Through further in-
vestments and initiatives, Oregon and the
United States will benefit from adaptation
and mitigation measures and will model to
the world how to develop actionable solu-
tions for OA adaptation and mitigation.
THE OREGON OAH COUNCIL HAS IDENTIFIED
THREE URGENTLY NEEDED STRATEGIC AC-
TIONS, WHICH DIRECTLY ALIGN WITH OBJEC-
TIVES WITHIN THE COAST RESEARCH ACT.
(1) Monitoring of key oceanographic and
biological indicators of impacts from OAH.
At the same time that OA has been im-
pacting our coasts, oxygen-depletion is on
the rise; Oregon and much of the West coast
has seen several seasons in a row with ex-
tended periods of hypoxia in our coastal
waters. The Oregon OAH Council is encour-
aged that the COAST Research Act identifies
the need to strengthen investments in OA re-
search and monitoring in the context of
other environmental stressors. Ocean acidifi-
cation and hypoxia are compounding
stressors for a wide range of marine animals,
and as such must continue to be studied to-
gether. Through the COAST Research Acts
reauthorization of funding of NOAA, NSF,
and NASA, much needed resources will be
made available to researchers across the
United States to continue to expand our
knowledge of OAH. The Oregon OAH Council
also supports the initiative of the COAST
Research Act to create data processing, stor-
age, and archive facilities to provide for the
long-term stewardship and standardization
of data. By creating a central repository for
OAH data it provides governments, sci-
entists, and industry better access to the in-
formation need to inform their mitigation
and adaption planning. Only by maximizing
our current data and filling our knowledge
gaps of OAH, can we as a Nation begin to be
able to piece together for solutions for our
coastal communities.
(2) Projects or programs that promote
coastal economic and ecosystem resilience
to OAH.
Fisheries and aquaculture are central to
our history, are enjoyed by Americans across
the nation year-round, and remain key to
many of Oregon’s coastal economies today.
Yet, the future sustainability of these ma-
rine resources and communities’ ability to
rely on them, are uncertain in the face of
significant ocean changes, including OAH,
and uncertain in the face of our current
state of preparation to adapt to those
changes over time. This is why the Oregon
OAH Council supports activities and initia-
tives that promote resilience to increased
OAH conditions, for both human commu-
nities and ecosystems. The COAST Research
Act also stresses the importance of increas-
ing our understanding of the socioeconomic
effects of OA by expanding federal research
to assess adaptation and mitigation strate-
gies. There will be costs of inaction relative
to CO2 mitigation and the United States has
an obligation to relieve these costs wherever
possible for our citizens.
(3) Tools and strategies to increase aware-
ness of OAH science, impacts and solutions.
As the impacts of OA intensify, it is going
to be vitally important for our Nation to
identify and advance opportunities to raise
awareness of and communicate OAH science,
impacts, and mitigation solutions. This is
why the Oregon OAH Council is encouraged
by the fact that the COAST Research Act
recognizes the need to address the effects of
OA on estuaries and integrate research, mon-
itoring, and adaptation strategies. By inte-
grating OA causes and effects, it better dem-
onstrates the complexity of this climate
issue, and provides a clearer message to com-
munities. The Oregon OAH Council also sup-
ports the COAST Research Act establish-
ment of an Advisory Board to increase co-
ordination among stakeholders, including
members of industry, to work with State and
Federal governments to improve coordina-
tion. Recognizing the importance of a broad
membership, our Oregon OAH Council in-
cludes members from industry, academia and
state government agencies. For the benefit
of our marine ecosystem and the human
communities that rely on a healthy marine
ecosystem, the Nation’s adaptation and miti-
gation approaches to OA should include suc-
cessful communication of new science, moni-
toring, and adaptation strategies.
As Co-Chairs of the Oregon OAH Council,
we appreciate the opportunity to provide you
with a letter of strong support for the
COAST Research Act. The strategic invest-
ment and coordination opportunities out-
lined in this act are meaningful and will
make a difference in our understanding of
OAH science, impacts, and solutions.
Through passage of this Act and the subse-
quent investment in science, adaptation and
communications, the United States will
demonstrate meaningful action in fighting
OA and the global challenges of climate
change, and preparing our citizens and
economies for the changes ahead.
Thank you for your consideration of these
comments.
Sincerely,
JOHN BARTH, PH.D.,
Co-Chair, Oregon
OAH Council, Exec-
utive Director, Ma-
rine Studies Initia-
tive, Oregon State
University.
CAREN BRABY, PH.D.,
Co-Chair, Oregon
OAH Council, Ma-
rine Resources Pro-
gram Manager, Or-
egon Department of
Fish and Wildlife.
OFFICE OF THE PROVOST AND EXECU-
TIVE VICE PRESIDENT, OREGON
STATE UNIVERSITY,
Corvallis, OR, March 8, 2019.
Re H.R. 1237—The COAST Research Act of
2019.
Hon. SUZANNE BONAMICI,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE BONAMICI: We write
to offer Oregon State University’s strong
support for H.R. 1237, the COAST Research
Act of 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K05JN7.006 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4324 June 5, 2019
As marine habitats face new and daunting
pressures threatening their sustainability,
the COAST Research Act identifies the grow-
ing need for strategic and robust invest-
ments in ocean acidification (OA) research,
monitoring and stakeholder collaboration.
Oregon State University is committed to
interdisciplinary approaches to address the
national and global challenges facing our
oceans and coast communities. OSU has a
deep history of global leadership in oceanog-
raphy and engages in nationally ranked
oceanographic monitoring programs and
world-leading OA research. Further, the uni-
versity recognizes that Oregon’s estuaries
and coastal regions are home to some of the
world’s most productive ecosystems and eco-
nomically vital shellfish farms.
The university is encouraged that the
COAST Research Act expands the definition
of OA to include coastal and estuarine sys-
tems, and identifies OA as being affected by
a combination of factors, including hypoxia.
The university believes that by expanding
federal definitions of OA and by increasing
funding opportunities, researchers and man-
agers will be able to best utilize resources to
find solutions to address OA.
The university also is encouraged that this
legislation recognizes the need for federal
engagement to continue important invest-
ments. Doing so will enhance the integration
of OA research, monitoring and adaptation
strategies across principal federal research
agencies, including the National Science
Foundation, National Oceanographic and At-
mospheric Administration, and the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration.
Oregon State University understands that
effective and collaborative partnerships and
communication are essential for our state
and nation to find adaptive and mitigation
solutions to address OA. For example, the
proposal to establish an Ocean Acidification
Advisory Board will be essential for facili-
tating the important work still to be done.
The world’s ocean belongs to everyone, and
ocean health is critical to our future. In the
coming decades, it will be essential for the
nation and its universities to work collabo-
ratively to improve and sustain the health of
our oceans. Doing so, we will assure human
wellness, environmental health and eco-
nomic prosperity for future generations.
In closing, Oregon State University be-
lieves that the COAST Research Act pro-
poses new strategic tools to expand under-
standing and address the problems facing our
oceans and coastal communities.
Sincerely,
EDWARD FESER,
Provost and Executive
Vice President.
IREM TUMER,
Interim Vice President
for Research.
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I urge
all of my colleagues to support this
bill.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Florida (Mr. POSEY),
my colleague not only on the Science,
Space, and Technology Committee, but
on the Financial Services Committee,
ever thoughtful and ever strong spir-
ited.
Mr. POSEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman for yielding and his kind re-
marks.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1237, the COAST Research Act, of
which I am an original cosponsor.
Those of us who live on the coast un-
derstand that the coast is an essential
part of our lives. In my own State of
Florida, approximately 80 percent of
the population lives along the coast.
About 6 million people work in our
coastal communities and produce near-
ly $280 billion a year in wages and con-
tribute over $700 billion in gross domes-
tic product.
Today, we face uncertainty about the
sustainability and the resilience of our
coasts. Parts of our coast have come
under assault from the ocean itself,
even before anyone imagined anything
about sea level rise.
Acidification presents uncertainties
in the ocean and could pose severe ef-
fects to the biodiversity of our marine
wildlife.
Along the Space Coast, we have seen
a recent plague of algal blooms that
foul our estuaries and threaten our
economy. It is serious and it is heart-
breaking.
The message is clear: We need to
take care of our precious coast so that
we can continue to enjoy the lifestyle
and the economic well-being that we
all cherish.
We must work with the Federal Gov-
ernment in the interest of improving
our coastal resilience. That is why I
have joined Congresswoman SUZANNE
BONAMICI in directing NOAA to pick up
the role of leading research for coastal
acidification.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
four letters of support for the COAST
Research Act from the following orga-
nizations: the Consortium for Ocean
Leadership, the Surfrider Foundation,
the Pacific States Marine Fisheries
Commission, and the Northwest fish-
eries groups.
CONSORTIUM FOR OCEAN LEADERSHIP,
Washington, DC, March 1, 2019.
Hon. SUZANNE BONAMICI,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN BONAMICI: On behalf
of the Consortium for Ocean Leadership
(COL), which represents our nation’s leading
ocean science, research, and technology or-
ganizations from academia, industry, and
aquariums, I am writing to express support
for the Coastal and Ocean Acidification
Stressors and Threats (COAST) Research Act
(H.R. 6267). America relies on our ocean and
coastal communities for our basic individual
needs as well as our overall security and
prosperity. Keeping these environments, and
therefore their communities, safe from the
myriad threats associated with ocean acidifi-
cation is paramount to our ocean security.
COL applauds the COAST Research Act in its
mission to strengthen existing ocean acidifi-
cation initiatives and introduce new strate-
gies to better understand and manage this
environmental stressor.
Ocean acidification, which occurs as the
ocean absorbs higher concentrations of at-
mospheric carbon dioxide, threatens the
health of the entire ocean. As corals, shell-
fish, and many types of plankton struggle to
create and maintain their shells or
exoskeletons in more acidic waters, ocean
food webs are disrupted. This, in turn,
threatens the crucial balance in many eco-
systems, as well as our own food security,
and jeopardizes the stability of those whose
livelihoods depend on a healthy ocean. Com-
batting the causes and mitigating the effects
of ocean acidification requires sustained con-
gressional support and interagency collabo-
ration, as well as engagement from stake-
holders in the private sector and academia. I
strongly commend the COAST Research
Act’s commitment to advancing ocean acidi-
fication research and monitoring efforts, as
well as promoting cooperation among stake-
holder groups.
I offer my sincere thanks to you, Congress-
woman Bonamici, along with Congress-
woman Chellie Pingree and Congressmen
Don Young and Bill Posey, for your bipar-
tisan efforts to help us better understand
ocean acidification and improve overall
ocean health by strengthening federal in-
vestments in the research and increasing
monitoring of changing ocean conditions.
Our lives and our future may well depend on
it.
Respectfully,
JONATHAN W. WHITE,
RADM (RET.), USN,
President and CEO.
SURFRIDER FOUNDATION,
Clemente, CA, March 7, 2019.
Hon. SUZANNE BONAMICI,
Washington, DC.
Re Support for Coastal and Ocean Acidifica-
tion Stressors and Threats (COAST) Re-
search Act.
DEAR HONORABLE CONGRESSWOMAN
BONAMICI: On behalf of Surfrider Founda-
tion’s 160 Chapters and student clubs and our
250,000 supporters, activists and members
worldwide, we write to express our enthusi-
astic supports for Coastal and Ocean Acidifi-
cation Stressors and Threats (COAST) Re-
search Act. The Surfrider Foundation
(Surfrider) is a non-profit grassroots organi-
zation dedicated to the protection and enjoy-
ment of our world’s oceans, waves and beach-
es.
As climate change continues to impact our
ocean and coast, local communities need to
plan ahead to better understand and plan for
a changing climate. Ocean acidification (OA)
is particularly concerning for Surfrider. The
current understanding of ocean acidification
impacts on ocean and estuarine ecosystems
is inadequate and must be improved to fully
prepare for and adapt to changing environ-
mental conditions and manage our natural
resources in nearshore locations. In addition,
more integration and coordination is needed
between local, state, and national entities to
ensure adequate scientific research and in-
vestments in related topics such as nutrient
loading, hypoxia, ocean acidification, and
harmful algae bloom research and other ob-
servational systems are targeted to meet
coastal communities’ needs.
Surfrider is particularly pleased to see the
legislation focuses on adaptation strategies
for ocean acidification and expands the defi-
nition of ocean acidification to include estu-
aries. In addition, we are pleased to see that
the bill would expand the Interagency Work-
ing Group’s strategic research plan to also
address socioeconomic effects of ocean and
coastal acidification and assess adaptation
and mitigation strategies.
Furthermore, establishing an Advisory
Board to increase coordination among stake-
holders, and requiring NOAA to facilitate an
Interagency Working Group’s strategic re-
search plan, that coordinates monitoring and
research efforts among federal and local
agencies and stakeholders is critical to en-
sure success of this important piece of legis-
lation.
Thank you for introducing such important
legislation.
Sincerely,
STEFANIE SEKICH-QUINN,
Surfrider Foundation, Coastal
Preservation Manager.
CHARLIE PLYBON,
Surfrider Foundation,
Oregon Policy Manager.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN7.017 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4325
June 5, 2019
PACIFIC STATES MARINE
FISHERIES COMMISSION,
Portland, OR, March 4, 2019.
Hon. SUZANNE BONAMICI,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE BONAMICI: The Pa-
cific States Marine Fisheries Commission
has a standing resolution adopted by the
Commissioners to support and encourage
new funding should be identified to augment
coastwide research and monitor changing
ocean conditions, harmful algal blooms, and
ocean acidification.
We have had an opportunity to review the
Coastal and Ocean Acidification Stressors
and Threats (COAST) Research Act. The bill
would reauthorize the Federal Ocean Acidifi-
cation Research and Monitoring Act to con-
tinue funding research through the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
and the National Science Foundation. The
bill would designate NOAA as the lead fed-
eral agency in the coordination of the federal
response to ocean acidification. The bill also
broadens the program to include marine es-
tuaries.
The bill, as introduced, strengthens the
federal research programs that focus on
ocean acidification. West Coast and Alaska
ocean stakeholders are already feeling the
socioeconomic impacts of ocean acidifica-
tion. We view ocean acidification research as
an important ongoing federal responsibility
in seeking to address the negative impacts to
these stakeholders. Pacific States therefore
supports the your efforts and that of other
Members of the Ocean Caucus in seeking to
expeditiously move the Coast Research Act
through the House of Representatives.
Regards,
RANDY FISHER,
Executive Director.
MARCH 10, 2019.
Hon. SUZANNE BONAMICI,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE BONAMICI: From
coast to coast, ocean acidification is having
a broad range of impacts on the health of our
ocean and coastal communities. Coastal in-
dustries are continuing to face the reality of
an increasingly acidic ocean. In 2017, re-
searchers at Oregon State University re-
corded some of the highest levels of ocean
acidification in the world off the coast of the
Pacific Northwest. Additionally, 63 percent
of test sites on the west coast experienced
levels of acidification known to cause com-
mercial oyster production failures.
Our Pacific Northwest economies, our rec-
reational and commercial fishing, and shell-
fish industry as well as our great northwest
tourism economy—all depend on a healthy
ocean. And because we are already seeing the
effects of ocean acidification, we support
your efforts and we support H.R. 1237, the
Coastal and Ocean Acidification Stressors
and Threats (COAST) Research Act of 2019.
Much of our knowledge and understanding
of ocean acidification that has emerged in
the last decade can be credited to the federal
funding authorized by Federal Ocean Acidifi-
cation Research and Monitoring (FOARAM)
Act of 2009. FOARAM established the federal
government’s work on ocean acidification by
creating the NOAA Ocean Acidification Pro-
gram and an interagency working group on
ocean acidification. FOARAM’s authoriza-
tion expired in 2012. The COAST Research
Act amends FOARAM to further improve our
ability to understand acidification in the
open ocean as well as in the coastal zone.
We support the COAST Research Act and
believe it will help our coastal communities
better prepare for the effects from ocean and
coastal acidification. Thank you for your
leadership to strengthen the nation’s focus
and investment in oceans and coastal acidifi-
cation.
Sincerely,
LYF GILDERSLEEVE,
Owner, Flying Fish
Company—Sustain-
able Seafood.
GRANT PUTNAM,
President, Northwest
Guides and Anglers
Association.
LIZ HAMILTON,
Executive Director,
Northwest Sport-
fishing Industry As-
sociation.
JOSEPH BOGAARD,
Executive Director,
Save Our Wild Salm-
on Coalition.
GREG BLOCK,
Executive Director,
Sustainable North-
west.
DAVID MOSKOWITZ,
Executive Director,
The Conservation
Angler.
KURT BEARDSLEE,
Executive Director,
Wild Fish Conser-
vancy.
GUIDO RAHR,
Executive Director,
Wild Salmon Center.
Mr. POSEY. Mr. Speaker, we must
not fail to preserve the sustainability
and resilience of our coastal resources,
our environments, and our economies.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
support the COAST Research Act.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I would simply urge the passage of this
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I urge a
‘‘yes’’ vote, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1237, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
COASTAL COMMUNITIES OCEAN
ACIDIFICATION ACT OF 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 1716) to direct the Sec-
retary of Commerce, acting through
the Administrator of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration,
to conduct coastal community vulnera-
bility assessments related to ocean
acidification, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1716
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Coastal Commu-
nities Ocean Acidification Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. STATE AND UNITED STATES DEFINED.
Section 12403 of the Federal Ocean Acidifica-
tion Research And Monitoring Act of 2009 (33
U.S.C. 3702) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as para-
graph (4);
(2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means each
State of the United States, the District of Co-
lumbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,
American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of
the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Is-
lands of the United States, and any other terri-
tory or possession of the United States.’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(5) UNITED STATES.—The term ‘United States’
means the States, collectively.’’.
SEC. 3. COASTAL COMMUNITY VULNERABILITY
ASSESSMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 12406 of the Federal
Ocean Acidification Research And Monitoring
Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3705) is amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (d); and
(2) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) COMMUNITY VULNERABILITY ASSESS-
MENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, through the
program established under subsection (a), shall
conduct an ocean acidification coastal commu-
nity vulnerability assessment, and issue a cor-
responding public report, which shall be up-
dated at least once every 7 years.
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The assessment con-
ducted under paragraph (1) shall—
‘‘(A) identify the United States coastal com-
munities, including island communities, low-
population rural communities, and subsistence
communities, that are most dependent on coast-
al and ocean resources that may be impacted by
ocean acidification;
‘‘(B) assess the nature of the social and eco-
nomic vulnerabilities of those communities, in-
cluding the economic impact on local or regional
commercial fisheries and recreational opportuni-
ties;
‘‘(C) identify the ocean acidification impacts
that might harm those communities, including
impacts from changes in ocean and coastal ma-
rine resources that are not managed by the Fed-
eral Government;
‘‘(D) identify key knowledge gaps where re-
search could be devoted to better understand the
possible impacts of ocean acidification on those
communities, the risks and threats facing those
communities, and possible adaptation strategies
for those communities; and
‘‘(E) be conducted in collaboration with ex-
perts, indigenous knowledge groups, and stake-
holders who are familiar with the unique eco-
nomic, social, ecological, geographic, and re-
source concerns of coastal communities in the
United States, including representatives of—
‘‘(i) the National Marine Fisheries Service and
the Office for Coastal Management of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
‘‘(ii) National Integrated Coastal and Ocean
Observation System regional information coordi-
nation entities established under section
12304(c)(4) of the Integrated Coastal and Ocean
Observation System Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C.
3603(c)(4));
‘‘(iii) regional ocean acidification networks;
and
‘‘(iv) State sea grant programs (as defined in
section 203 of the National Sea Grant College
Program Act (33 U.S.C. 1122)).
‘‘(c) SUPPORT FOR STATE AND LOCAL VULNER-
ABILITY ASSESSMENTS AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH
PLANNING.—In carrying out the program estab-
lished under subsection (a), the Secretary shall
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A05JN7.018 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4326 June 5, 2019
collaborate with State, local, and tribal govern-
ment entities that are conducting or have com-
pleted vulnerability assessments, strategic re-
search planning, or other similar activities re-
lated to ocean acidification and its impacts on
coastal communities, for the purpose of—
‘‘(1) determining whether such activities can
be used as a model for other communities; and
‘‘(2) identifying opportunities for the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and
other relevant Federal agencies to support such
activities.’’.
(b) ONGOING INPUT MECHANISM.—Section
12404(b)(5) of the Federal Ocean Acidification
Research And Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C.
3703(b)(5)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘including information’’ and
inserting the following: ‘‘including—
‘‘(A) information’’;
(2) by striking the period at the end and in-
serting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) an ongoing mechanism that allows af-
fected industry members, coastal stakeholders,
non-Federal resource managers, community
acidification networks, indigenous knowledge
groups, and scientific experts not employed by
the Federal Government to provide input on re-
search, data, and monitoring that is necessary
to support on-the-ground management, deci-
sionmaking, and adaptation related to ocean
acidification and its impacts.’’.
(c) STRATEGIC RESEARCH PLAN.—Section 12405
of the Federal Ocean Acidification Research
And Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3704) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (8), by striking ‘‘and’’ after
the semicolon;
(B) in paragraph (9), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(10) make recommendations for research that
should be conducted, including in the social
sciences and economics, to address the key
knowledge gaps identified in the community
vulnerability assessment report conducted under
section 12406(b).’’; and
(2) in subsection (e), by inserting ‘‘, tribal gov-
ernments, indigenous knowledge groups,’’ after
‘‘industry’’.
(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Sec-
tion 12409(a) of the Federal Ocean Acidification
Research And Monitoring Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C.
3708(a)) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(a) NOAA.—There are authorized to be ap-
propriated to the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration to carry out the purposes
of this subtitle $2,700,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024.’’.
(e) REPORT ON SUPPORT FOR STATE AND LOCAL
VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENTS AND STRATEGIC
RESEARCH PLANNING.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Administrator of the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration shall submit to Con-
gress a report on the efforts of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration to support
State, local, and tribal community vulnerability
assessments, strategic research and planning,
and monitoring needs, pursuant to section
12406(c) of the Federal Ocean Acidification Re-
search And Monitoring Act of 2009 (as added by
subsection (a) of this section).
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous materials on H.R.
1716, the bill under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
b 0930
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1716, the Coastal Communities Ocean
Acidification Act of 2019, which is spon-
sored by the gentlewoman from Maine
(Ms. PINGREE).
The bill directs the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, or
NOAA, to conduct vulnerability assess-
ments to study socioeconomic impacts
of ocean acidification on coastal com-
munities across the country.
As more coastal regions across the
U.S. are negatively impacted by ocean
acidification, it is critical that we
work to understand these impacts and
to develop mitigation and adaptation
strategies. These strategies can help
these communities adequately prepare
and respond to a more acidic coastal
environment.
In order to be successful, these as-
sessments must involve all coastal
communities in the U.S., which this
bill does by including indigenous
groups and Tribal governments.
The bill also includes language that
ensures that all U.S. territories, which
are highly reliant on coastal and ma-
rine resources, can also take advantage
of NOAA’s coastal vulnerability assess-
ments. This will allow these island
communities to protect their vibrant
coastal economies in the face of an
acidifying ocean.
The vulnerability assessments in this
bill also include the economic impacts
on commercial fisheries and outdoor
recreation. These industries are signifi-
cant contributors to many coastal
economies, and it is important that
they are part of the discussion when
developing strategies to deal with
ocean acidification.
I am glad that this bill passed out of
the Committee on Science, Space, and
Technology in a bipartisan fashion, and
I urge my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to support this legislation to
better prepare our coastal communities
and economies against the growing
threat of ocean acidification.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1716, the Coastal Communities Ocean
Acidification Act of 2019.
This bill simply directs the Secretary
of Commerce to conduct a vulnerabil-
ity assessment of the impacts of ocean
acidification on coastal communities.
This assessment would identify those
communities most likely to be affected
by ocean acidification in the coming
years.
Once these communities are identi-
fied, the assessment would examine the
economic impacts of ocean acidifica-
tion on these communities by directing
Federal agencies to coordinate with
local officials, community stake-
holders, and local businesses. Once the
assessment is complete, a cor-
responding report will be made pub-
licly available and would be revised
every 7 years.
Our Nation’s coastal communities
are dependent on the health of our
oceans. A 2014 NOAA study found there
were 149,000 ocean-dependent busi-
nesses in the United States that em-
ploy more than 3 million people in in-
dustries such as seafood and tourism.
Ocean acidification is a threat to the
health and vitality of these commu-
nities, and this legislation is an impor-
tant step to assist those communities
most directly impacted by this phe-
nomenon.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield such time as she may consume
to the distinguished gentlewoman from
Maine (Ms. PINGREE).
Ms. PINGREE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON), the committee chairwoman,
for yielding me the time and for sup-
porting this bill, as well as the ranking
member from Oklahoma, both of whom
have shown a true willingness to ad-
dress the impact of climate change and
the impact that it has had on our
oceans.
The increased carbon absorbed by our
oceans has presented a crisis that has
touched coastal communities in the
Pacific and Atlantic Oceans, as well as
the connected water bodies in between.
That is why it is encouraging to see
the health of our oceans finally receive
the attention from this Chamber that
they have long deserved, with the four
bipartisan bills before us today.
Despite congressional inaction, the
Federal Government has done its best
to address ocean acidification through
existing programs and budgets.
I would particularly like to recognize
the work of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, better
known as NOAA, which has never
shirked its responsibility to safeguard
our seas in the face of climate change,
even though the agency did not receive
additional resources to meet this com-
plex challenge. It is due to NOAA’s re-
search that we know that our oceans
have increased in acidity by approxi-
mately 30 percent since the industrial
revolution and could experience in-
creases up to 150 percent by the end of
the century.
Let’s be clear. That data isn’t just
frightening on an environmental level.
It also spells disaster for our economy.
America’s coastal communities
produce 45 percent of the Nation’s
gross domestic product, and nearly 3
million American jobs are directly de-
pendent on the resources of our oceans
and the Great Lakes. If we let this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN7.009 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4327
June 5, 2019
problem intensify, the financial impli-
cations will ripple across all of our
communities.
I remember hearing about the issue
of ocean acidification taking hold in
Maine during the summer of 2012.
Maine had experienced a big spike in
ocean temperatures that summer.
Triggerfish, seahorses, and a lot of
invasive species started showing up
that year.
A little fishery for squid popped up in
Penobscot Bay. Black sea bass, which
are common south of Cape Cod, mi-
grated north and became a major pred-
ator of small crustaceans, such as baby
lobsters. In a State renowned for its
lobster, you can imagine that the im-
pacts on our economy were significant.
Meanwhile, our clammers and shell-
fish growers have reported similar im-
pacts.
Bill Mook, an oyster farmer on
Maine’s Damariscotta River, told me
that he has had to adjust operations to
mitigate for ocean acidification and
worries how future oyster production
will be affected.
According to a recent study by the
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute,
the Gulf of Maine is more susceptible
to pressures of ocean acidification than
any other region on the East Coast.
These are only a few of the reasons
why I introduced the bipartisan Coast-
al Communities Ocean Acidification
Act, which is one of the four bills under
consideration today. My bill would di-
rect NOAA to study the socioeconomic
impacts of ocean acidification on
coastal communities nationwide and,
better yet, finally provide the agency
with the additional authorized funding
needed to do this essential research.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support for the
four bipartisan bills before the House
today, including my own. It is critical
that we protect our coastal economies
and our oceans so that they are here
for the next generation.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I have no
additional speakers, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Oregon (Ms. BONAMICI).
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairwoman for yielding time and
for her support of this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of Congresswoman PINGREE’s Coastal
Communities Ocean Acidification Act.
I am proud to be an original cospon-
sor of this bill, which would direct
NOAA to conduct a vulnerability as-
sessment to identify communities that
are dependent on coastal and ocean re-
sources that may be affected by ocean
acidification.
The Pacific Coast is more vulnerable
to ocean acidification than other coast-
al regions, and it can be used as a test-
ing ground for different strategies and
models to manage and adapt to ocean
acidification.
But ocean acidification is fundamen-
tally a global phenomenon. We must
strengthen our understanding of the
socioeconomic effects of ocean acidifi-
cation on a range of geographically di-
verse coastal communities.
Importantly, this bill directs NOAA
to work with States, like my home
State of Oregon, that are already de-
veloping ocean acidification response
plans.
I thank members of the Science,
Space, and Technology Committee for
including my amendment during the
full markup to authorize $2.7 million
annually for fiscal years 2020 through
2024.
I hope that my COAST Research Act
will complement this bill and address
some of the gaps in our understanding
of the socioeconomic effects of ocean
acidification. But there must be a sepa-
rate authorization for vulnerability
studies.
Finally, and importantly, I thank all
the staff who worked on not only this
bill but also the COAST Research Act
and the other two ocean acidification
bills, especially, in my office, Maxine
Sugarman, but all the staff on both
sides of the aisle in our offices and the
hardworking committee staff.
Finally, I thank Congresswoman PIN-
GREE for her continued leadership on
protecting the health of oceans and im-
proving research on ocean acidifica-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this bill.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask for support of the bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I, too, ad-
vocate support of the bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1716, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
OCEAN ACIDIFICATION
INNOVATION ACT OF 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 1921) to authorize Federal
agencies to establish prize competi-
tions for innovation or adaptation
management development relating to
ocean acidification, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1921
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Ocean Acidi-
fication Innovation Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PRIZE COMPETITIONS.
Section 12404 of the Federal Ocean Acidifi-
cation Research And Monitoring Act of 2009
(33 U.S.C. 3703) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(d) PRIZE COMPETITIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Any Federal agency with
a representative serving on the interagency
working group established under this section
may, either individually or in cooperation
with one or more agencies, carry out a pro-
gram to award prizes competitively under
section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler Tech-
nology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719).
An agency seeking to carry out such a pro-
gram shall carry out such program in coordi-
nation with the chair of such interagency
working group.
‘‘(2) PURPOSES.—Any prize competition
carried out under this subsection shall be for
the purpose of stimulating innovation to ad-
vance our Nation’s ability to understand, re-
search, or monitor ocean acidification or its
impacts, or to develop management or adap-
tation options for responding to ocean acidi-
fication.
‘‘(3) PRIORITY PROGRAMS.—Priority shall be
given to establishing programs under this
section that address communities, environ-
ments, or industries that are in distress due
to the impacts of ocean acidification, includ-
ing—
‘‘(A) the development of monitoring or
management options for communities or in-
dustries that are experiencing significant fi-
nancial hardship;
‘‘(B) the development of adaptation options
to alleviate economic harm and job loss
caused by ocean acidification;
‘‘(C) the development of measures to help
vulnerable communities or industries, with
an emphasis on rural communities and busi-
nesses; and
‘‘(D) the development of adaptation and
management options for impacted shellfish
industries.’’.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous materials on H.R.
1921, the bill now under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1921, the Ocean Acidification Innova-
tion Act of 2019, and I thank Mr. KIL-
MER for introducing this important leg-
islation and working with our com-
mittee.
Additionally, I thank the Science,
Space, and Technology Committee
members on both sides of the aisle for
their work to advance this bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K05JN7.012 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4328 June 5, 2019
Ms. BONAMICI; Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER;
Mr. CRIST; the Environment Sub-
committee chair, Mrs. FLETCHER; the
Environment Subcommittee ranking
member, Mr. MARSHALL; and my friend,
Ranking Member LUCAS.
Ocean acidification, as we have dis-
cussed today, is a serious problem. This
bill would create Federal prize com-
petitions to spur innovation in under-
standing ocean acidification and devel-
oping management strategies for re-
sponding to ocean acidification.
Federal prize competitions, while not
a replacement for federally funded re-
search, allow the government to trans-
fer risk to prize participants and stim-
ulate private-sector investment. This
could enhance and augment our under-
standing of this important issue.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge my col-
leagues to support H.R. 1921, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1921, the Ocean Acidification Innova-
tion Act of 2019.
This bipartisan legislation is spon-
sored by Representative DEREK KILMER
and Representative JAIME HERRERA
BEUTLER, who can speak firsthand to
how ocean acidification is harming the
shellfish population off Washington
State.
H.R. 1921 would allow Federal science
agencies to use existing funds to con-
duct prize competitions to increase our
ability to research, monitor, and man-
age the impacts of ocean acidification.
By creating incentives, the legisla-
tion recognizes the need to engage non-
profit groups, private citizens, and the
academic community in the develop-
ment of solutions to address this prob-
lem. Establishment of this competition
will enable us to leverage the ingenuity
and resourcefulness of these commu-
nities.
Mr. Speaker, this bill represents an
innovative approach to tackling this
problem, and I urge my colleagues to
support this bill. I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield such time as he may consume to
the gentleman from Washington (Mr.
KILMER), the sponsor of the bill.
b 0945
Mr. KILMER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chair for yielding, and I thank her
for her leadership on these issues and
so many others in her committee’s do-
main.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 1921, the bipartisan Ocean
Acidification Innovation Act. Ocean
acidification is a rising threat to coast-
al communities throughout the Pacific
Northwest and threatens entire liveli-
hoods and industries in my home State
of Washington.
There are generation of folks along
the sound and in our coastal commu-
nities who have worked in fishing and
in shellfish growing, but that is endan-
gered if we don’t maintain a healthy
Pacific Ocean.
Growing evidence suggests that acid-
ic ocean conditions harm the ability of
many marine organisms to generate
shells. These marine organisms, which
include oysters, mussels, and pteropods
are a key part of the food chain for
salmon, herring, and other fish.
Scientists back home at the Univer-
sity of Washington recently discovered
that ocean acidification also threatens
the more than $220 million Dungeness
crab fishery, raising serious concerns
about future implications for species
and ecosystems in the region.
In Washington State alone, the com-
mercial fishing and seafood processing
industry, which includes shellfish
aquaculture, contribute nearly 16,000
jobs and $9.4 billion in revenue to our
economy. According to a report by
Washington Sea Grant, Washington
State is the Nation’s leading producer
of farmed clams, oysters, and mussels,
and not only are these products deli-
cious, they support jobs.
So really, the Ocean Acidification In-
novation Act is really about jobs. This
bill would allow Federal agencies to
use existing funds to conduct prize
competitions to increase the ability to
research, monitor, and manage ocean
acidification and its impacts. I agree
with the chair that this can’t and
shouldn’t replace direct investment in
research. But this bill creates a strong
incentive for experts to focus on devel-
oping innovative solutions to this seri-
ous challenge.
This legislation was created in col-
laboration with key stakeholders, in-
cluding the XPRIZE Foundation, an in-
novative nonprofit organization that
creates competitions designed to en-
courage increased investment in solu-
tions to major societal problems. So,
for example, the Ansari XPRIZE
awarded for personal spaceflight tech-
nology helped launch a brand-new $2
billion private space industry.
Research also suggests that prize
competitions often increase exponen-
tially the amount of research focused
on solving a problem. For example, the
Ansari XPRIZE yielded over $100 mil-
lion in private research as 26 teams
competed for a $10 million prize.
So Federal agencies have increas-
ingly viewed these prize competitions
as a means of maximizing the return
on taxpayer dollars, leveraging prizes
to attract more resources to tackle dif-
ferent scientific challenges.
Mr. Speaker, I believe the Ocean
Acidification and Innovation Act will
encourage collaboration and spur inno-
vative strategies to mitigate and adapt
to ocean acidification. It will help com-
munities, environments, and industries
that rely on healthy oceans and are
facing the hard realities of increasing
ocean acidification.
I want to thank my colleague from
the Pacific Northwest, Representative
JAMIE HERRERA BEUTLER, as well as SU-
ZANNE BONAMICI and DON YOUNG for co-
sponsoring this important legislation. I
also want to thank the chair and the
ranking member for their continued
leadership and their support of this.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I note to
my colleague that I have no additional
speakers, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Oregon (Ms. BONAMICI).
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank the chairwoman for yielding
and for her support of this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of Congressman KILMER’s bipartisan
Ocean Acidification Innovation Act. I
am proud to be an original cosponsor of
this bill, along with Representative
HERRERA BEUTLER from Washington,
and my House Oceans Caucus co-chair
Representative YOUNG from Alaska.
This bill would establish a prize com-
petition for Federal agencies that serve
on the Interagency Working Group on
Ocean Acidification to increase efforts
to research, monitor, and manage
ocean acidification and its effects. Our
understanding of ocean acidification
and its interactions with other envi-
ronmental stressors, such as hypoxia,
harmful algal blooms, and warming
waters is rapidly evolving, but still
limited in scope.
A 2009 paper from the Ocean Carbon
and Biochemistry’s Ocean Acidifica-
tion Subcommittee estimated that a
U.S. national program on ocean acidifi-
cation would need $50 million to $100
million per year to provide timely in-
formation for managers and decision-
makers.
A 2012 report from the National Ma-
rine Sanctuary Foundation, based on
informal conversations with various
Federal agencies, estimated a need for
approximately $95 million for all Fed-
eral ocean acidification research and
monitoring by next year, 2020.
In fiscal year 2019, the NOAA Ocean
Acidification Program received only
$12 million, so there is no doubt that
gaps in funding are a result of insuffi-
cient resources.
The prize competition established in
this bill will encourage collaboration
and spur innovative strategies to miti-
gate and adapt to ocean acidification.
This will help the communities, envi-
ronments, and industries that rely on a
healthy ocean and are facing harsh re-
alities of rising carbon emissions.
Again, I thank Congressman KILMER
for his leadership, especially given the
pervasive effects of ocean acidification
on the Pacific Coast. I urge all of my
colleagues to support this bill.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I have no further requests for time. I
would simply urge the support of the
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1921, as
amended.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K05JN7.015 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4329
June 5, 2019
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
on that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
A message from the Senate by Ms.
Lasky, one of its clerks, announced
that the Senate agreed to the following
resolution:
S. RES. 229
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran was born in Pontotoc, Mississippi,
in 1937;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran graduated from Byram High School
in Hinds County, Mississippi, as valedic-
torian, an Eagle Scout, a member of 4-H, and
a student athlete;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran studied at the University of Mis-
sissippi in Oxford, Mississippi;
Whereas, while a student at the University
of Mississippi, the Honorable William Thad
Cochran was president of Pi Kappa Alpha
fraternity, vice president of the student
body, company commander in the Navy Re-
serve Officers’ Training Corps, and head
cheerleader;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran was commissioned an Ensign in the
United States Naval Reserve, served aboard
the USS MACON from 1959 to 1961, served on
staff of the Commandant of the Eighth Naval
District in New Orleans, Louisiana, taught
military law and naval orientation at the Of-
ficer Candidate School in Newport, Rhode Is-
land, from 1962 to 1964, and was promoted to
the rank of Lieutenant in the United States
Naval Reserve;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran studied at the University of Mis-
sissippi School of Law in Oxford, Mississippi,
and at Trinity College, University of Dublin,
in Dublin, Ireland, on a Rotary Foundation
Graduate Fellowship;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran joined the law firm of Watkins &
Eager in Jackson, Mississippi, in 1964, was
made a partner at that firm in less than 3
years, and served as chairman of the Mis-
sissippi Law Institute, lawyers’ chairman for
the Heart Fund and United Givers Fund,
president of the Young Lawyers Division of
the Mississippi Bar Association, a board
member of the Jackson Rotary Club, and
chairman of the Legal Services program of
the Jackson Junior Bar;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran was elected to the House of Rep-
resentatives to represent the Fourth District
of Mississippi in 1972, and was reelected in
1974 and 1976;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran was elected to the Senate in 1978,
becoming the first Republican in more than
100 years to win a statewide election in the
State of Mississippi, and was reelected in
1984, 1990, 1996, 2002, 2008, and 2014, with a
total period of service lasting from Decem-
ber 27, 1978, to April 1, 2018;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran served as Chair of the Senate Re-
publican Conference from 1991 to 1997;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran served as Chairman of the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry of the Senate from 2003 to 2005;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran served as Chairman of the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the Senate from
2005 to 2007 and from 2015 to 2018;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran championed education programs, in-
cluding programs to increase educational
achievement among disadvantaged children,
particularly in rural areas, to build the re-
search capabilities of universities, and to
support Historically Black Colleges and Uni-
versities;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran worked to strengthen the Armed
Forces by supporting shipbuilding programs
for the Navy, the Marine Corps, the Coast
Guard, and other critical Federal organiza-
tions and the military bases and installa-
tions in the State of Mississippi and across
the United States;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran was the chief sponsor of the Na-
tional Missile Defense Act of 1999 (Public
Law 106–38; 113 Stat. 205), which made the
United States exponentially safer by cre-
ating the missile defense system used by the
United States as of June 2019;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran was a leader in agriculture and
worked to promote United States agricul-
tural innovation around the world through
the development of the Cochran Fellowship
Program of the Department of Agriculture,
which trains fellows from middle-income
countries to strengthen and enhance trade
linkages between the countries of the fellows
and agricultural interests in the United
States;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran led the effort to provide critical
Federal assistance to the State of Mississippi
and other Gulf Coast States devastated by
Hurricane Katrina in 2005, the worst natural
disaster in the history of the United States;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran was a devoted father, grandfather,
and husband;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran was awarded honorary degrees from
Kentucky Wesleyan College, Mississippi Col-
lege, Blue Mountain College, the University
of Richmond, Belhaven University, and
Tougaloo College;
Whereas the Honorable William Thad
Cochran was recognized as the tenth-longest
serving Senator in the history of the United
States;
Whereas the service of the Honorable Wil-
liam Thad Cochran on behalf of the people of
the State of Mississippi and all people of the
United States earned the Honorable William
Thad Cochran the respect and devotion of
colleagues and the title ‘‘the Quiet Per-
suader’’; and
Whereas the death of the Honorable Wil-
liam Thad Cochran has deprived the State of
Mississippi and the United States of one of
the most distinguished statesmen: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) has heard with profound sorrow and
deep regret the announcement of the death
of the Honorable William Thad Cochran,
former Senator for the State of Mississippi;
and
(2) respectfully requests that the Secretary
of the Senate—
(A) communicate this resolution to the
House of Representatives; and
(B) transmit an enrolled copy of this reso-
lution to the family of the Honorable Wil-
liam Thad Cochran.
The message also announced that the
Senate has passed a bill of the fol-
lowing title in which the concurrence
of the House is requested:
S. 1235. An act to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in commemora-
tion of ratification of the 19th Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, giv-
ing women in the United States the right to
vote.
f
NATIONAL ESTUARIES AND ACIDI-
FICATION RESEARCH ACT OF 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 988) to provide for a study
by the Ocean Studies Board of the Na-
tional Academies of Science examining
the impact of ocean acidification and
other stressors in estuarine environ-
ments, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 988
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘National Es-
tuaries and Acidification Research Act of
2019’’ or the ‘‘NEAR Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Ocean acidification impacts human
health, natural resources, and the environ-
mental, economic, and recreational uses of
the coastline.
(2) The current understanding of ocean
acidification impacts on estuarine eco-
systems is inadequate to fully prepare and
manage for changing environmental condi-
tions in nearshore locations.
(3) While pH can be measured with high
precision and accuracy in open ocean envi-
ronments, more understanding of the car-
bonate system in estuarine ecosystems is
needed for precise and accurate measure-
ments and observations.
(4) The interaction of multiple stressors,
including salinity, pH, temperature, sea
level rise, and nutrient input, within estua-
rine ecosystems is inadequately understood
for managing the health, economic, rec-
reational, and environmental impacts driven
by these interactions.
(5) A better understanding is needed of how
anthropogenic influences in coastal environ-
ments affect estuarine ecosystems.
(6) More integration and coordination is
needed among regional, national, and global
environmental observations in estuarine en-
vironments, supporting prior investments in
related topics such as nutrient loading, hy-
poxia, ocean acidification, and harmful algae
bloom research and observational systems.
SEC. 3. STUDY EXAMINING THE IMPACT OF
OCEAN ACIDIFICATION AND OTHER
ENVIRONMENTAL STRESSORS ON
ESTUARINE ENVIRONMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Commerce shall make appro-
priate arrangements with the National Acad-
emies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine
(referred to in this Act as the ‘‘National
Academies’’) under which the National Acad-
emies shall conduct a study that—
(1) examines the existing science of ocean
acidification in estuarine environments;
(2) examines the challenges to studying
ocean acidification and ocean acidification’s
interactions with other environment
stressors in estuarine environments;
(3) provides recommendations for improv-
ing future research with respect to ocean
acidification in estuarine environments; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K05JN7.017 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4330 June 5, 2019
(4) identifies pathways for applying science
in management and mitigation decisions re-
lating to ocean acidification in estuarine en-
vironments.
(b) CONTENTS OF STUDY.—The study de-
scribed under subsection (a) shall include—
(1) the behavior of the carbonate system
within estuarine environments;
(2) the interactions of the carbonate sys-
tem with other biotic and abiotic character-
istics of estuarine ecosystems;
(3) how environmental and anthropogenic
changes or disturbances could affect abiotic
and biotic processes within estuaries;
(4) how estuarine biotic and abiotic proc-
esses will be affected under predicted envi-
ronmental changes;
(5) the current state of data collection, in-
terpretation, storage, and retrieval and ob-
servational infrastructure of abiotic and bi-
otic parameters in estuarine ecosystems;
(6) the gaps that exist in understanding the
socio-economic and health impacts of ocean
acidification in estuaries;
(7) future directions for scientific research;
and
(8) pathways for applying science in man-
agement and mitigation decisions.
(c) REPORT.—In entering into an arrange-
ment under subsection (a), the Secretary
shall request that the National Academies
transmit to Congress a report on the results
of the study not later than 24 months after
the date of enactment of this Act.
(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section $1,000,000.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and to in-
clude extraneous materials on H.R. 988,
the bill now under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
988, the National Estuaries and Acidifi-
cation Research Act of 2019, or the
NEAR Act.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to take a
moment to thank the sponsor of the
legislation, Mr. POSEY, for his work on
this bill and his general support and
understanding in addressing the seri-
ous problem of ocean acidification.
Mr. POSEY’s bill takes a focused look
at a unique part of our coastal environ-
ment estuaries. Our estuaries are valu-
able and part of our marine commu-
nity, both from an economic, as well as
an ecological perspective. These envi-
ronments are complex and the effects
of ocean acidification on them is well
understood.
H.R. 988 would address the gaps in
our knowledge by commissioning a re-
view by the National Academies of
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine on
the impacts of ocean acidification on
estuaries.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this
good, bipartisan bill, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
988, the National Estuaries and Acidifi-
cation Research Act of 2019, a bipar-
tisan bill sponsored by Congressman
BILL POSEY.
This legislation directs the Secretary
of Commerce to coordinate a study
with the National Academies of
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to
examine the effects of ocean acidifica-
tion on estuary environments, and to
submit the report to Congress within 2
years. Specifically, this study would
provide Congress a greater under-
standing of the biological and eco-
nomic impacts of ocean acidification
on inland marine environments beyond
what is called for under current law.
Estuaries are ecologically unique and
economically important brackish
water ecosystems that occur when in-
land rivers meet oceans. These areas
possess unique biological characteris-
tics and have not been the subject of
studying the effects of ocean acidifica-
tion to date.
Mr. Speaker, we have heard about
the need for additional study for ocean
acidification during the debate on the
previous bills. However, this legislation
would further improve our knowledge
of this topic by utilizing the expertise
and resources of the National Acad-
emies of Sciences, Engineering, and
Medicine Ocean Studies Board to gain
a better understanding of the impor-
tance of this issue.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bill, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Oregon (Ms. BONAMICI).
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank the chairwoman for yielding
me the time and for her support of this
bill.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of Congressman POSEY’s bipartisan Na-
tional Estuaries and Acidification Re-
search Act. I am proud to be an origi-
nal cosponsor of this bill, which would
direct the National Academies of
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine
Ocean Studies Board to conduct a
study that examines the existing
science of ocean acidification and estu-
aries and provide recommendations to
improve future research and manage-
ment to inform mitigation decisions.
As co-chair of the House Oceans Cau-
cus and the Congressional Estuary
Caucus, I know that acidification is
not only affecting open oceans. Estu-
aries and nearshore waters are also
faced with environmental stressors.
Ocean and coastal acidification often
present itself in the context of other
coastal processes like runoff, erosion,
and upwelled water from the oceans
making it difficult to measure its indi-
vidual effects on estuaries.
We know that estuaries and near-
shore waters are also experiencing the
consequences of our inaction to address
ocean and coastal acidification, and re-
search has not kept pace with the
needs of coastal communities.
The NEAR Act would address the sig-
nificant research gaps and urgent need
to improve our understanding of the ef-
fects of ocean and coastal acidification.
I want to thank Congressman POSEY
for his leadership on this bill, and his
efforts to preserve our Nation’s estu-
aries. I urge all of my colleagues to
support this bill.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Florida (Mr. POSEY),
the author of this outstanding piece of
legislation and someone who has a tre-
mendous working knowledge of all of
these issues.
Mr. POSEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman for yielding and his kind
words.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
988, the National Estuaries and Acidifi-
cation Research Act.
First, I want to thank Congress-
woman SUZANNE BONAMICI and Con-
gressman BRIAN MAST for working with
me and our staff to advance this impor-
tant bipartisan legislation. I also want
to thank the National Academies of
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine
for their valuable input.
The NEAR Act is a national proposal
with a very special connection. People
in my district, the Eighth Congres-
sional District of Florida, understand
in a very deep way the economic and
environmental importance of the ocean
and our estuary.
My district is bounded on the east by
the Indian River Lagoon, which is
North America’s most diverse estuary.
As the name implies, our estuary is a
lagoon. It is an estuary separated from
the ocean by barrier islands. The ex-
change of waters between the lagoon
and the sea makes it an estuary.
b 1000
The lagoon is 156 miles long, but it is
only a half mile to 5 miles wide and
averages just 3 feet in depth. Our la-
goon is a wondrous nursery for sea life,
but its physical features make it espe-
cially vulnerable to environmental
threats. Unfortunately, the Indian
River Lagoon and other valuable estu-
aries throughout our country are being
threatened by ocean acidification,
along with other stressors.
EPA tells us that, when carbon diox-
ide is released into the atmosphere,
about one-third of that carbon dioxide
is absorbed by seawater, creating car-
bonic acid. We have seen this happen in
the ocean, but this process is now
seeming to occur in estuaries and
coastal zones.
Ten years of Federal investments in
ocean acidification research show that
acidification hurts tourism, rec-
reational fishing, and coastal commu-
nities that depend on healthy marine
ecosystems. Shellfish are especially at
peril.
The threats of coastal acidification
to our environment and our economy
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN7.013 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4331
June 5, 2019
are significant. The story of my dis-
trict and the Indian River Lagoon
plays out along our entire national
coastline. More than half of the U.S.
population lives in coastal areas.
Coastal watershed counties provide
an estimated 69 million U.S. jobs and
contribute an estimated $7.9 trillion to
the GDP, annually. That is why I
joined with Congresswoman BONAMICI
to cofound the bipartisan Congres-
sional Estuary Caucus to work for poli-
cies that preserve and restore our estu-
aries and to help support other efforts
like research and development to con-
tribute to healthy estuaries.
Regrettably, we don’t know a lot
about how increasing ocean acidifica-
tion affects a nearshore water body
like the Indian River Lagoon. That is
because acidification often acts, along-
side other coastal processes, like run-
off, erosion, and upwelled water from
the ocean.
These estuary conditions aren’t
present in the same way in the open
ocean, and they make it difficult to
measure acidification’s impact from
what we know about the open ocean.
As a result, we don’t yet have a great
way to measure how acidification plays
out in estuaries. We need more re-
search to support efforts to prevent
and mitigate coastal acidification.
The NEAR Act is a great step toward
increasing our knowledge of how acidi-
fication affects our estuaries. The
study proposed in this bill can give us
invaluable information to bolster our
efforts to preserve and restore healthy
estuaries.
Mr. Speaker, when we take care of
our environment, we take care of our-
selves; and, therefore, I ask my col-
leagues to join me in taking this im-
portant step toward understanding how
ocean acidification affects our precious
estuaries and support this bill today.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I have no
additional speakers, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I urge support of the bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 988, the ‘‘National Es-
tuaries and Acidification Research Act of
2019.’’
H.R. 988 provides a study by the Ocean
Studies Board of the National Academies of
Science examining the impact of ocean acidifi-
cation and other stressors in estuarine envi-
ronments.
The bill would authorize the appropriation of
$1 million for a report, to be completed in two
years, that examines the challenges to study-
ing ocean acidification, provides recommenda-
tions for improving future research, and identi-
fies ways to apply science while mitigating and
managing ocean acidification in estuarine en-
vironments.
Ocean acidification occurs when there are
changes in ocean water chemistry from the
absorption of excess carbon dioxide, but the
current understanding of ocean acidification
impacts on estuarine ecosystems is inad-
equate to fully prepare and manage for chang-
ing environmental conditions in nearshore lo-
cations.
It is critical that we better understand the
interaction of multiple stressors, including sa-
linity, pH, temperature, sea level rise, and nu-
trient input, within estuarine ecosystems so
that the health, economic, recreational, and
environmental impacts driven by these inter-
actions can be effectively managed.
This bill will allow the Ocean Studies Board
of the National Academies to conduct a study
that—examines the existing science of ocean
acidification in estuarine environments; exam-
ines the challenges to studying ocean acidifi-
cation and ocean acidification’s interactions
with other environment stressors in estuarine
environments; provides recommendations for
improving future research with respect to
ocean acidification in estuarine environments;
and identifies pathways for applying science in
management and mitigation decisions relating
to ocean acidification in estuarine environ-
ments.
Through transportation, recreation, tourism,
and other port activities, healthy estuaries are
critical to the economy of coastal communities
and contribute $320 billion to our nation’s
GDP.
In addition, estuaries filter sediments and
pollutants out before river water reaches the
ocean and provide habitat for more than 75
percent of commercially caught fish in the
United States.
When enacted, H.R. 988 will create a better
understanding of coastal acidification, so we
can better manage and mitigate its effects on
our nation’s estuaries and other natural treas-
ures.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 988 to confront ocean
acidification, which poses a strong threat to
the estuaries that America’s coastal residents
depend on for nutrition, employment, and
recreation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 988, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to provide for a
study by the National Academies of
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine
examining the impact of ocean acidifi-
cation and other stressors in estuarine
environments.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
OCEAN ACIDIFICATION
INNOVATION ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1921) to authorize Federal
agencies to establish prize competi-
tions for innovation or adaptation
management development relating to
ocean acidification, as amended, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 395, nays 22,
not voting 15, as follows:
[Roll No. 241]
YEAS—395
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Nunes
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K05JN7.020 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4332 June 5, 2019
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—22
Amash
Brooks (AL)
Burchett
Cline
Ferguson
Gohmert
Gosar
Grothman
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Higgins (LA)
Hunter
Jordan
Massie
McClintock
Meadows
Mooney (WV)
Perry
Rose, John W.
Roy
Sensenbrenner
Yoho
NOT VOTING—15
Biggs
Buck
Clyburn
Dean
Duncan
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Hastings
Herrera Beutler
Lawrence
Norman
Olson
Sherman
Swalwell (CA)
Wilson (FL)
b 1031
Messrs. MEADOWS, GROTHMAN,
and JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee
changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to
‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. KELLY of Mississippi,
FULCHER, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. DUNN,
Ms. DELBENE, and Mr. GRAVES of
Louisiana changed their vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
the Committee on the Judiciary be dis-
charged from further consideration of
H.R. 962, the Born-Alive Abortion Sur-
vivors Protection Act, and ask for its
immediate consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. I urge the
Speaker and the majority leader to im-
mediately schedule the born-alive bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
f
LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
(Mr. SCALISE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I rise for
the purpose of inquiring of the major-
ity leader the schedule for next week.
I yield to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. HOYER), the majority leader.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Louisiana (Mr.
SCALISE), the Republican whip, for
yielding.
Mr. Speaker, on Monday, the House
will meet at 2 p.m. for legislative busi-
ness, with votes postponed until 6:30
p.m.
Mr. Speaker, on Tuesday and
Wednesday, the House will meet at 10
a.m. for morning-hour debate and 12
p.m. for legislative business.
Members are reminded that when the
House is considering appropriations
bills, votes will occur after 7 p.m. and,
obviously, before as well.
On Thursday, the House will meet at
9 a.m. for legislative business. Last
votes on Thursday are expected to
occur probably between 2 and 3 p.m.
That is different, as I know most Mem-
bers are used to leaving at 11. We are
leaving at 10:30 today, but it will be
somewhere between 2 and 3 p.m. on
that Thursday.
We will consider several bills under
suspension of the rules. The complete
list of suspension bills will be an-
nounced by the close of business today.
The House will also consider a con-
tempt resolution. This resolution
would force Attorney General Barr and
former White House Counsel McGahn
to comply with congressional sub-
poenas that have been duly issued by
the House Judiciary Committee. The
resolution will authorize the Judiciary
Committee to pursue civil action to
seek enforcement of its subpoenas in
Federal court.
Madam Speaker, it also authorizes
House committees that have issued
subpoenas as part of their oversight
and investigation responsibilities to
seek civil enforcement of those sub-
poenas when they are ignored.
Madam Speaker, in addition to that
contempt resolution, the House will
consider H.R. 2740, the Labor, Health
and Human Services, Education, Legis-
lative Branch, Defense, State, Foreign
Operations, and Energy and Water De-
velopment Appropriations Act of 2020.
This will be the first of several
minibuses, Madam Speaker, that will
be coming to the floor over this work
period. It is my intention to pass all 12
appropriations bills through the House
by the end of June. This package is the
first step toward the House doing its
work.
This is, as I said, the first step to-
ward precluding the possibility of a
shutdown at the end of this year, as oc-
curred at the beginning of this year. I
am hopeful that all Members will co-
operate with Chair LOWEY and Ranking
Member GRANGER, who have led their
committees in working extraordinarily
hard, 12 subcommittees, all of which
will have marked up their bills by the
middle of next week and be ready for
floor action. This is one of the earliest
times we have considered it.
My Republican colleagues passed a
number of bills, as well, in the last
year. It was in the Senate that we
didn’t get that done. But the fact of
the matter is, hopefully, we will be
able to get this done.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, as we
start the appropriations process to, ul-
timately, get to the point where we are
able to pass our appropriations bills
prior to September 30, I think the gen-
tleman recognizes that the only way
we will have an opportunity to get to a
point where we don’t have a shutdown
is if we are in agreement, both between
the House and Senate as well as with
the White House, on the actual num-
ber, the amount of money that the
Federal Government would be able to
spend in that year.
We have had agreements in prior
years, budget agreements, on how we
are going to do that. I think the gen-
tleman understands that even within
the Democratic-controlled House,
there is not an agreement. The Budget
Committee, the majority’s Budget
Committee, was not able to pass a
budget. It was not even able to pass out
of committee an amount of money to
determine what we could spend in the
House or the Senate. There is not an
agreement at all.
In fact, if you look, it is the first
time in 9 years that the House Budget
Committee did not produce a budget.
That budget, that is usually the docu-
ment that says this is the amount of
money that the appropriations bills
can ultimately equal up to, whether it
is defense or all the other bills.
Next week, more than half of the dis-
cretionary spending of the country is
going to be on the House floor. The De-
partment of Defense bill alone rep-
resents more than half of the discre-
tionary spending, and there is not an
agreement between the House and Sen-
ate or with the White House on how
much we are going to fund defense.
I would like to see us get that agree-
ment, but, clearly, the gentleman
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN7.015 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4333
June 5, 2019
knows we don’t have one. Unfortu-
nately, those bills are typically bipar-
tisan, and the Appropriations Com-
mittee has produced a very partisan de-
fense bill. That doesn’t happen often.
I wish the Democrats on the com-
mittee would have worked with the Re-
publicans on the Appropriations Com-
mittee to produce a bipartisan bill so
that we would have a better chance of
getting something that can get signed
into law.
If we want to avoid a shutdown, the
best way to do it is to work with both
parties, not just produce a Democrat-
only bill. That doesn’t happen too
often. Unfortunately, I think that is
the direction we are headed.
I would like to ask the gentleman,
number one, if he has any kind of idea
on how we are going to get to a budget
agreement, an agreement on some kind
of spending forecast, so that we can
have a picture of how we can get bills
that can get signed into law and an
amendment process that would be fair
to both sides.
I think we have talked about this be-
fore, how so far this Congress, it has
been very tilted, where the lion’s share
of amendments that are coming out of
the Rules Committee are only Demo-
cratic amendments. There has been a
history this Congress of shutting out
Republican amendments on the floor,
and I would hope there would be a more
fair process as these important bills—
DOD, Labor-H, and some of the other
bills—are going to be coming to the
floor, where the Rules Committee
would at least allow both sides to
speak as we try to produce a bill that
could be bipartisan but, so far, has not
been.
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. SCALISE. I yield to the gen-
tleman from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
First of all, of course, there was no
budget last year. There was a budget
that was passed in the latter part of
the year before, but that was for rec-
onciliation purposes so that Repub-
licans could pass their tax bill with
less than 60 votes in the United States
Senate. So I wouldn’t go too far on the
budget.
Republicans were in charge for 8
years, and they never had a budget.
That doesn’t mean we didn’t pass one
through the House, but there was never
a budget. There was never a budget
that was implemented, that I can re-
member, in the long term.
b 1045
But that aside, as the gentleman
probably knows, I, in January, started
talking with his leadership, with Rank-
ing Member GRANGER, with Senator
MCCONNELL, with Senator SHELBY,
with Senator LEAHY, with Mrs. LOWEY,
and with our leadership about the ne-
cessity to reach an agreement on the
level of discretionary spending, which
we call the caps.
Clearly, as Senator MCCONNELL
pointed out in our discussions, the
White House was a critical component
of that because, as the gentleman
knows, in order to change the seques-
ter, which I think is one of the
stupidest policies that we put in place,
but in order to change the sequester,
we would have to have a bill signed by
the President. So, clearly, the Presi-
dent would have to be involved.
Unfortunately, sometime thereafter,
Mr. Vought and Mr. Mulvaney sug-
gested that we ought to go to seques-
ter, that we ought to just march to the
sequester numbers.
For the Members who may not know
exactly what that means, that means a
$54 billion cut in defense spending. I
don’t really think anybody in this
House thinks that is an appropriate
step for us to take, but that is what
Mr. Mulvaney and Mr. Vought of OMB
suggested, except, by the way, they
crossed their fingers to say we will use
$180 billion of additional deficit spend-
ing out of the overseas contingency op-
erations to fund defense.
In other words, yes, we will do the se-
quester, but it will really only have an
effect on the nondefense, education,
healthcare, medical research, law en-
forcement, et cetera. It would only
have an effect on that side of the budg-
et.
I didn’t think that made much sense.
And, very frankly, I think all of the
people that I just mentioned that I had
talked to didn’t think it made sense ei-
ther.
Obviously, Paul Ryan, when he was
Speaker, didn’t think it made sense,
because he led a deal with Senator
MURRAY to give us numbers that we
thought were reasonable, and we came
to an agreement.
I would hope that we could do that
now. I know there are some negotia-
tions at the top four level and in the
White House that have not reached
agreement yet. I think that is unfortu-
nate.
Now, the gentleman observed that we
haven’t passed a budget. He is correct.
But we did pass the exact same number
that the Budget Committee reported
out for discretionary spending, and we
adopted it in the rule.
He is right; we did not adopt it in the
budget as it was offered, but that
wasn’t necessary, because in either
event, that wouldn’t have solved the
problem.
But we adopted the same exact num-
ber, the Democrats voted for that num-
ber, to which the committee marked
its bills. As the gentleman knows, that
was $733 billion on defense and $639 bil-
lion on nondefense. There was some ar-
gument on our side as to whether those
numbers ought to be closer together,
but that aside, that is what those bills
have been.
So there is a number, and it was a
number that was used by the Appro-
priations Committee, and it is a num-
ber that is reflected in the bills that we
will be bringing to the floor.
Now, of course we could wait, as I
think, frankly, the White House wants
us to wait, until September, maybe
September 27, 28, or 29, and then they
would say: Well, we are going to do a
CR at last year’s numbers.
Now, that would be a little more
than sequester, no doubt about that,
but it would not be a number that I
think the Members of this House on ei-
ther side of the aisle would be happy
with—maybe for different reasons but,
nevertheless, not happy with.
So I am in agreement that we need to
reach a number. We need to pass a bill,
because, if we do not, under the law
that we passed some years ago, 15 days
after the first session of this Congress
adjourns, sequester will automatically
go into effect.
Nobody would be happy. America will
not be happy. Our security will suffer
and our people will suffer under those
numbers. So I am in full agreement
that we ought to reach a number.
Now, with respect to the appropria-
tions bills, I think we need to move
them. Obviously, there is going to be a
lot of negotiation back and forth, a lot
of different steps will need to be taken.
But this is a first step; it is an impor-
tant step; and it sets a marker as to
where we are going to start negotia-
tions.
Hopefully, those negotiations will
bear fruit with the Senate and with the
White House, because I know the gen-
tleman shares my view that shutting
down the government is not an option
that we ought to be pursuing. Hope-
fully, we, through these actions, can
preclude that from happening, and I
think that will be a positive result.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for his comments.
I share the majority leader’s under-
standing that there is a negotiation
going on to see if we can get an agree-
ment on the budget numbers. We are
not there yet.
I understand the gentleman that the
majority has to move, at some point,
on those appropriations bills next
week. We all know that the bills that
are being moved are not bills that we
have an agreement on and, unfortu-
nately, started off on a very partisan
nature. Hopefully, we can get to a more
bipartisan nature in the bills, bills like
defense, that are coming up.
We want our military to be properly
funded, and we want our military to
have the certainty that they don’t
have to operate under a CR, they don’t
have to operate under a cloud of poten-
tial shutdown.
Our men and women in uniform, as
we get ready to honor the brave sac-
rifices that were made on D-Day—to-
morrow, of course, marks the 75th an-
niversary of D-Day and the heroic ef-
forts that so many made, sacrificing
their lives. Over 10,000 American sol-
diers died, and, of course, we reflect
and pause to thank them for their sac-
rifice, to recognize that sacrifice that
they made.
And just as they did, today we have
men and women in uniform risking
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K05JN7.024 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4334 June 5, 2019
their lives for our country. And we
don’t want to have this potential that,
if we get to September 30 and can’t get
an agreement on what that proper level
should be, that they should worry
whether or not they are going to get
paid.
So, hopefully, we can keep that work
going, those conversations and negotia-
tions going to finalize an agreement
that we can get. We are not there yet.
We will see where it goes next week.
We then want to shift over now and
talk about what else is going to be on
the floor next week, and that is going
to be this contempt resolution. I
haven’t seen the language. I don’t
know when the gentleman’s side plans
to file.
I would ask the majority leader, it is
clear that there is a march to impeach-
ment, that this starts, maybe, the for-
mal march to impeachment on the
House floor. But just this Sunday, the
majority whip was asked on a TV show
if he felt the House was going to im-
peach the President of the United
States, and he said yes.
There has been no evidence that
would necessitate an impeachment. We
had this nearly 2-year investigation by
Mr. Mueller, and it was all about
whether or not there was collusion be-
tween the President and Russia. They
looked into whether or not there was
any kind of interference by Russia in
our elections.
Of course, he did find that there was
interference by Russia. Russia tried to
interfere with our elections while
Barack Obama was President of the
United States.
Now, what did Barack Obama do to
stop that? I don’t know. I don’t know if
that is going to be investigated—it
should be—whether or not the Presi-
dent did everything in his powers at
the time to stop Russia from inter-
fering with our elections.
We need to work together to make
sure it doesn’t happen again. That
should be our focus.
There was no collusion, by the way,
and he found that. There was no ob-
struction of justice.
I know the committee wants to keep
focusing and looking into everything
that they can to try to find more evi-
dence that wasn’t there, but if they
start bringing and you start bringing
resolutions to hold, for example, the
Attorney General in contempt—we
haven’t seen what the charges are, but
some of the things that the Judiciary
Committee has asked the Attorney
General to produce, if the Attorney
General produced that information, he
would be violating law.
Why would you hold the Attorney
General of the United States in con-
tempt of Congress for not breaking the
law?
Those are some of the things we have
seen. Again, we haven’t seen the final
language. We have heard some conjec-
ture by the chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, by others who want to
start this impeachment drumbeat.
Madam Speaker, I would just urge
caution to the gentleman as the House
floor becomes politicized to just try to
impeach the President because some
people just don’t like the fact that he
was elected in 2016.
There will be an election next year.
There are a whole lot of people on the
Democratic side who are already trying
to get the nomination to unseat the
President, and that debate is already
going on in the country, and it will
happen in full next year.
Let’s let the people of this country
decide who the President of the United
States is. Let’s respect the fact that
the people of this country, in 2016, said
they wanted Donald Trump to be the
President of the United States, and he
is the President of the United States,
and he is carrying out his duties, and
he is carrying out the agenda that he
campaigned on, as it should be.
If somebody wants to carry out a dif-
ferent agenda, next year they are going
to have that opportunity to present it
to the people of this country.
But even though there was no collu-
sion identified by the special counsel,
this idea that we are still going to just
start bringing legislative instruments
to the floor like contempt and then, ul-
timately, as the majority whip said
Sunday that he felt that there would
be impeachment on the House floor, I
would just urge caution to the gen-
tleman. This next week, this legisla-
tion that is going to be brought for-
ward is all a part of that.
We should respect this process more.
We should respect the fact that the At-
torney General of the United States
has an obligation to enforce the laws of
this country. And when he is asked by
Congress to do something that would
actually violate laws, we ought to re-
spect the fact that he said he would
come and testify to the Judiciary Com-
mittee, to the members of the Judici-
ary Committee.
Then the Judiciary Committee
changed the rules of the game and said
they didn’t want Members of Congress
to question him; they wanted staff to
question, which would be unprece-
dented, so he didn’t come. But he did
say he would come and testify to the
committee under the normal processes
that have always been in place.
So with that, again, we haven’t seen
the legislation yet. Once we do, we will
review it, but I would just urge cau-
tion.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for his comments.
Very frankly, the person who re-
jected the premise that this matter
was over was Robert Mueller in a rel-
atively short press conference in which
he answered no questions, but he clear-
ly demonstrated that he thought Mr.
BARR misrepresented the fact that this
was over. In fact, he said:
If we thought the President had not done
anything wrong and we were convinced of
that, we would have said so. We did not say
so.
Now, having said that, this is not re-
lated to impeachment. This is related
to the Congress’ authority, under the
Constitution of the United States, to
receive information from the executive
on behalf of the American people.
Now, if Mr. BARR believes that the
information requested need not be sub-
mitted, then he had nothing to fear, be-
cause what we are seeking is a court
ruling, an independent body’s ruling as
to whether or not he ought to be held
in contempt and directed by a court to
provide the information to the Con-
gress of the United States, acting pur-
suant to its constitutional duty.
Madam Speaker, I will tell my friend
that it is a sad day when the Repub-
licans and Democrats do not stand to-
gether on behalf of not only this insti-
tution’s constitutional authority, but
responsibility to get the information it
needs both with respect to, as, again,
Mr. Mueller pointed out, the very seri-
ous issue of the Russians trying to af-
fect our democracy and our elections.
There is no dispute of that fact. In
fact, nine Russians were indicted by
the Mueller special counsel for exactly
that purpose.
b 1100
Now, this resolution to which the
gentleman refers authorizes the Judici-
ary Committee to pursue civil action
to seek enforcement in Federal court
of its subpoenas to Attorney General
Barr and former White House Counsel
McGahn, who is no longer a Federal
employee. It also authorizes House
committees that have issued subpoenas
as part of their oversight and inves-
tigation responsibilities. Let me em-
phasize that: Investigation responsibil-
ities, oversight. That is part of the con-
stitutional responsibility of the Con-
gress of the United States, which, by
the way, your party pursued extraor-
dinarily vigorously over the last 8
years of the Obama administration,
and, very frankly, in previous adminis-
trations.
We are seeking civil enforcement to
have a determination as to whether or
not Attorney General Barr, Mr.
McGahn, and indeed others, who have
refused to comply with constitu-
tionally sanctioned requests by the
Congress of the United States for infor-
mation on behalf of the American peo-
ple. The President of the United
States, like Barr, said it is over.
Mr. Mueller says it is not over. Mr.
Mueller says he did not have the au-
thority pursuant to Justice policy to
go further, but he pointed out that
there are other bodies that have the
authority and responsibility to do so.
Who is that? Us, the Congress of the
United States.
Now, one of the problems that we are
having is that the President has in-
structed almost all of government not
to respond to the Congress of the
United States, not to answer questions,
not to testify, not to appear. I have
called that perhaps the biggest coverup
in the history of any President who
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K05JN7.025 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4335
June 5, 2019
has, in effect, given a blanket sugges-
tion, and in some cases order, that peo-
ple ought not to testify. He said there
is no reason to go any further. He has
made that decision. And especially in
Congress where it is very partisan, ob-
viously very partisan. We did think
this is not partisan. This is our respon-
sibility to the American people.
By refusing to cooperate with Con-
gress, the Trump administration has
engaged in a refusal to allow the Con-
gress to exercise its responsibility, and
therefore, we are going to continue to
pursue the facts on behalf of the Amer-
ican people. And that is what this is
about. You will note that we have not
sought criminal contempt. We have,
however, found it to be untenable, un-
acceptable to have an administration,
any administration, Republican or
Democrat, tell the Congress whether it
is a Republican Congress or a Demo-
cratic Congress that it will not respond
to requests for information, to sub-
poenas to testify, and for other infor-
mation that Congress needs. So that is
what we are going to do.
Mr. SCALISE. Well, the gentleman
mentioned a lot of things that I think
need to be addressed.
First, the idea that there is some
coverup. Let’s recognize and remember
that for nearly 2 years of the Mueller
investigation, President Trump fully
complied with all of the requests that
were made, and when the Mueller in-
vestigation was completed, first of all,
Mr. Barr, the Attorney General, had an
opportunity to review that report and
give a summary to Congress.
During that period, Mr. Barr invited
Mr. Mueller to review the report, to re-
view his summary. Mr. Mueller chose
not to participate in that. And so ulti-
mately the Attorney General then gave
Congress a summary, which made it
crystal clear there was no collusion
after almost 2 years and over $30 mil-
lion of taxpayer money looking into
this where the President fully com-
plied, his administration fully com-
plied, and they were probing every-
thing.
Mr. HOYER. Will my friend yield?
Mr. SCALISE. The gentleman will
yield, but after I first go through this
because these are important points to
make because anybody that wants to
use the term ‘‘coverup’’ ought to be
very cognizant of what they are talk-
ing about when we talk about that in-
vestigation. Because that investigation
was as thorough as any that we have
seen, and the Attorney General and the
special counsel were both involved in
reviewing it, but the special counsel
had an opportunity if he found wrong-
doing to file charges. And the gen-
tleman from Maryland knows that.
Mr. HOYER. No, I do not know that.
Mr. SCALISE. He could have filed
charges, and he filed absolutely no
charges. There were no charges filed,
because there was nothing wrong that
was found.
Mr. HOYER. And he said why he did
not.
Mr. SCALISE. The task was to see if
there was any collusion between Russia
and the Trump campaign while Russia
was interfering with the elections. We
know Russia interfered with the elec-
tions.
Why did the Obama administration
allow Russia to interfere with the elec-
tions? That is a question we should be
probing. Why? Not just to go back in
time, but to make sure it doesn’t hap-
pen again. And how much time is being
spent going and looking and seeing just
exactly what Russia did to interfere
with our election while Barack Obama
was President? They are not doing
that. They want to go after all these
witch hunts, and was there more collu-
sion. There was no collusion.
And so instead of saying, okay, they
tried for 2 years. You had members of
your own leadership team saying they
had evidence of collusion, and yet,
there was no evidence of collusion and
they have never come forth and said
they were wrong. They have never
brought forward what their mysterious
evidence was, because there was no evi-
dence, because there was no collusion.
And so instead of that, they are con-
tinuing to say, let’s just hold contempt
hearings for the Attorney General here
on the House floor.
The majority whip says the House
will impeach the President. The gen-
tleman hasn’t answered that. Well,
where is that going to happen? When is
that going to happen? Why don’t we ac-
tually focus on the problems of this
country? Because the same committee
that continues down these rabbit holes
and on these witch hunts, that same
committee that has jurisdiction over
this whole Mueller investigation that
found no collusion, no charges filed by
the special counsel, that is the same
committee that has jurisdiction over
the border crisis.
And the gentleman knows we have a
crisis at our border. It is a serious cri-
sis because we don’t have control over
our border yet. We need to get control
over our border, but in the next 2
weeks—literally, in the next 2 weeks
the department of DHS is about to run
out of money to deal with this crisis.
And the President of the United
States submitted a supplemental re-
quest to this majority asking to give
additional funding so that we can take
care of those kids that are coming over
every day in the thousands, the unac-
companied children where the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services is
about to run out of money to take care
of those kids.
And so what happens to those kids? If
they come over illegally, the law says
what Homeland Security has to do.
And if they come over and they are
sick, which some of them are coming
over very sick, they are turned over to
DHS where DHS takes care of them,
and DHS has told you they are about to
run out of money and not a thing has
been done.
In fact, when the Labor-HHS bill was
in subcommittee, one of our Members
actually filed an amendment to try to
include the money, so that we can keep
taking care of the health needs of those
kids that are coming over illegally,
and that was rejected on a party line
vote. Your party voted against that.
And the committee of jurisdiction, in-
stead of focusing on how to solve this
problem, how we can help resolve this
problem in a bipartisan way, which it
should be bipartisan, we all ought to
care about these kids that are coming
over that have a lot of health issues
that we are trying address, but they
are about to run out of money. And
what are we going to do about it? We
have asked that this majority do some-
thing to address that request that was
sent down from the President weeks
ago.
But we are literally facing a crisis in
a matter of days where they will run
out of money. When is that going to be
addressed by this majority? We have
asked for it to be addressed, and it
hasn’t. So when is the Speaker going to
bring legislation? Would the majority
leader be willing to bring legislation?
For weeks we have talked about it
right here in this colloquy, and it
hasn’t been addressed. And so before it
becomes a crisis where literally DHS
cannot take and care for the health
needs of these kids that are coming
over, why don’t we address it now, in-
stead of waiting until they truly run
out of money, can no longer take care
of those kids and bad things would hap-
pen. I don’t want those bad things to
happen. I know you don’t want those
bad things to happen. And the Presi-
dent doesn’t want those bad things to
happen. That is why he sent that sup-
plemental request weeks ago, and it
hasn’t been dealt with.
I yield to the gentleman.
Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentleman
for yielding.
Let me deal with the question of the
supplemental, first. There is a humani-
tarian crisis at the border. We need to
deal with it. The President came down
with a request some two-plus weeks
ago.
Mr. SCALISE. Four.
Mr. HOYER. The Republicans held up
consideration of a disaster bill that we
passed in January. Now, this dealt with
natural disasters, not the humani-
tarian crisis at the border. I under-
stand that.
We passed that Monday ultimately
because the administration wanted to
undermine very badly the American
citizens who live in Puerto Rico. Fi-
nally, we got agreement that that was
the right thing to do and the Senate
passed it overwhelmingly, then sent it
over here. We tried to pass it by unani-
mous consent, and your side objected.
You objected three times. So we had to
pass it this Monday. We did over-
whelmingly. Not as many perhaps on
the gentleman’s side as on my side, but
we passed it handily.
The fact of the matter is, we need to
deal with this humanitarian crisis. We
need to deal with the humanitarian cri-
sis, and if we limit it to dealing with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K05JN7.027 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4336 June 5, 2019
the humanitarian crisis, Madam
Speaker, we will do it. And, in fact, Ms.
LUCILLE ROYBAL-ALLARD is in discus-
sions on that now. My view is the four
corners, meaning the Speaker, the Re-
publican leader, Senator MCCONNELL,
the majority leader, and Mr. SCHUMER
are dealing with it. I hope they get it
done very soon. And if they get it done
we are going to move it because there
is a crisis and we need to deal with it.
But I would urge my friend to urge
his colleagues not to try to do some of
the President’s agenda unrelated to the
humanitarian crisis. And if we can do
that, we will get to an agreement, in
my opinion.
Now let me go back to your what I
believe to be inaccurate, recitation—as
I believe Attorney General Barr’s reci-
tation of what the Mueller report says,
and Mr. Mueller clearly made that
very, very crystal clear that he had a
different view as to whether that was.
Now, I have got a whole page here of
things that the Mueller report says
with reference to—‘‘collusion’’ is a
word that the President has created. It
is not collusion, not a crime, per se.
Conspiracy is a crime, but the Presi-
dent uses this word ‘‘collusion’’ as fake
news, as a distraction, as a magician’s
trick to look over here, not here, so
that I can fool you.
I asked the gentleman to yield when
he said, well, the special counsel de-
cided to do nothing. The special coun-
sel made it very clear that under Jus-
tice Department directives, a sitting
President cannot be indicted. And Mr.
Mueller said if he can’t be indicted, I
don’t want to make an allegation,
which would not be fair because he can-
not be indicted, and therefore, there
will be no fora on which to defend him-
self. But he observed there was another
forum, that was inappropriate for him,
that did have the responsibility and
the ability to take action, and that, as
I said, is us.
Now, I won’t go through this list of
findings that the Mueller committee or
task force, the special counsel con-
cluded, but in my opinion, and I said
this in a release 2 days after, were pret-
ty damning and at a minimum worthy
of the Congress of the United States
trying to get to the bottom of what
Manafort and Stone and others did in
reference to WikiLeaks, welcoming the
Russian participation that they
thought was helping them. Mueller re-
port.
So we can go into that at great
length, but the proper way to do that is
to do what we are doing, ask questions,
have witnesses, review documents and
other communications to get to the
bottom of this, and we intend to do
that. And we intend to do it in a con-
sidered, focused way.
Neither the Speaker nor I, as the
gentleman has read, are saying that we
are seeking impeachment, but we are
seeking to do our constitutional duty,
our responsibility to the American peo-
ple and to the Constitution to ensure
that, in fact, the American people
know what this administration or indi-
viduals who work with this administra-
tion or others were doing.
b 1115
Madam Speaker, lastly, because we
can go on at length about this, let me
say that the gentleman protests too
much. The Republicans control the
United States Senate. Very frankly,
the Intelligence Committee is working
in a bipartisan fashion with Mr. BURR
from North Carolina and Mr. WARNER
from Virginia.
Madam Speaker, if the gentleman,
my friend, the whip, is frustrated, I
suggest he call up his friends in the
United States Senate to say they ought
to do this; they ought to do that; and
they ought to do the other.
If they think it is the right thing to
do, maybe they will do it. But we in-
tend to do our responsibility here.
Again, I would hope that we could
join together in defense of the Con-
gress’ responsibility and authority and
not have any administration—Repub-
lican, Democratic, Obama, Trump, any
President—say, no, it is not going to
give us any information, that some
other body has disposed of that ques-
tion.
Some other body is not us, and we
need to move ahead on doing our re-
sponsibility.
Again, I would hope the gentleman
would cooperate, but we are going to
continue to do the business of the peo-
ple of this country as well.
We have differences on that. We
think this was a pretty historic week.
We passed the disaster bill. We ex-
tended flood insurance, and we ex-
tended TANF, so neither one of them
expired. Then, we passed the American
Dream and Promise Act, legislation
that will relieve the fears of 2-plus mil-
lion people who are positive partici-
pants in the American Dream.
It was a bipartisan bill, not a lot
from your side, but we think it is a his-
toric piece of legislation. We hope the
Senate takes it up.
We have been trying to get that bill
on the floor for 8 years, without suc-
cess. We got it on the floor. As I knew
it would, it passed. I think it would
have passed had we put it on the floor
in the previous Congress, but we didn’t
get it to the floor.
Madam Speaker, I look forward to
working with the whip toward reaching
some bipartisan resolutions.
In particular, I agree with him, and I
think we all agree that we want to
make sure that we have the resources
necessary to handle what is, in fact, a
humanitarian crisis, with so many peo-
ple fleeing natural disasters and man-
made disasters—terror, murder, may-
hem—for safety for themselves and
their families, as have millions and
millions and millions of people who
preceded them who came to this coun-
try. Whether they came from Europe,
Asia, Africa, South America, Central
America, they came here because
America had a beacon that they saw as
a land of opportunity and a land of
freedom, equality, and justice, a land
in which they wanted to live and make
better.
Madam Speaker, we will continue to
do our business as well as exercise our
responsibilities.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for his comments,
and I would share a lot of the disagree-
ments we have with how the Senate
does business, whether it is a Repub-
lican or Democratic Senate.
Their rules, in many ways, work to
undermine much of the good work that
we do here in the House, whether it is
a Republican or Democratic majority.
We can find a lot of common ground on
that disagreement.
As it relates to immigration, I, too,
believe America has this unique place
in the world as that shining beacon for
anybody who seeks freedom, anybody
who seeks the liberty that has been
fought for with blood and treasure by
so many heroes throughout genera-
tions to make America the place that
people look to when they think about
freedom.
We are also the most generous nation
in the world when it comes to immigra-
tion, and we are proud of that. That is
something we celebrate. We let over a
million people a year into America to
be a part of the American Dream, to
come to seek the American Dream, and
that is what it should be about.
It should be about seeking those
things that make America great so
that more people can come to add to
the richness of this country. We do
that, but we also are a nation of laws,
and we can’t lose sight of that at the
same time that we want to maintain
that beacon.
We only maintain it if we also main-
tain those great laws that we take an
oath to uphold. All of us take that
oath. That oath is critically important,
because as people want to come here,
they want to come here because of
what America is. It is our job to pre-
serve the greatness of what America is.
If we start to lose that, if we start to
look the other way and ignore this law
and try to undermine that law, it real-
ly weakens the greatness of our democ-
racy.
When you look at the differences we
had on the House floor, so many of us
wanted to address the problems that
are created by not having a secure bor-
der. But when you say, for example,
that if somebody comes here when they
are actually in a gang database, and by
law, we can’t even look at that data-
base to see if that person coming into
our country is a member of a gang or
committed violent crimes, that is not
what is the richness of America. We
want to maintain the dream that peo-
ple come here to seek.
We may disagree on the methods of
getting there, but let’s keep working to
try to get to a better place, something
signed into law to fix the problems
with our immigration system, to get
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K05JN7.028 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4337
June 5, 2019
back to a functioning, legal immigra-
tion system, instead of having thou-
sands of people, whether they are part
of that culture that wants to seek the
American Dream or whether they are
coming here to undermine what is
great about America, think they can
just traipse through, thousands a day
at a time, because we have not secured
our border.
In our homes, we have windows,
doors, a yard. We might have a fence.
But if we lock our door, we are locking
it for a reason. It is not because we
don’t want anyone inside. It is because
we only want to let in the people who
are coming to be a part of what is great
about our family and about our home.
If somebody wants to come to do us
harm, that is why we have the lock on
the door.
We let over a million people a year
into our country, and that is part of
what is great about our Nation. No
other country in the world, by the way,
is close to the generosity in letting
people into their country every year.
No country is letting in over a million
people a year.
We need to get back to a system
where our immigration system works.
We passed a bipartisan bill last week
to take care of the disaster needs of so
many people around the country, and
it was bipartisan. It was an example of
what works.
There were some Members who ob-
jected. Some of them objected because
the humanitarian money that is needed
to address this crisis at the border
wasn’t in the bill.
I am glad the gentleman acknowl-
edged that we need to work to resolve
it. Hopefully, we can do that next week
before the crisis hits, before DHS actu-
ally runs out of money so that we have
a severe crisis.
Let’s work together to stop it. I
know the gentleman has acknowledged
he wants to do that. While there are
some other things that are going to be
on the floor next week that, unfortu-
nately, will be very partisan in nature
that we will disagree on, let’s also try
to work to address that crisis so that,
again, we get back to the richness of
what’s great about this Nation.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman and look forward to working
together next week on the things that
we can accomplish for this country.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
SLOTKIN). Remarks in debate in the
House may not engage in personalities
toward the President, whether origi-
nating as the Member’s own words or
being reiterated from another source.
f
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMOR-
ROW, AND ADJOURNMENT FROM
THURSDAY, JUNE 6, 2019, TO
MONDAY, JUNE 10, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 11 a.m. tomorrow, and further,
when the House adjourns on that day,
it adjourn to meet at 2 p.m. on Monday
next, and that the order of the House of
January 3, 2019, regarding morning-
hour debate not apply on that day.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
f
ENACT NATIONAL RECYCLING
STANDARDS
(Ms. MCCOLLUM asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Speaker,
there are more than 9,800 local recy-
cling programs following different
standards in the United States. There
is no coordination.
Cities and counties are struggling,
and recycling is at risk of collapsing.
Increasingly, recyclable plastics and
papers are going to landfills and incin-
erators, and poisoning our oceans and
waterways.
It is time for a national recycling
strategy to harmonize standards across
the country, strengthen markets, and
reduce contamination in the recycling
system.
Leadership is needed from Congress
to work with stakeholders to make re-
cycling environmentally and economi-
cally sustainable.
For example, it is time for a stand-
ardized national system of labeling.
Every household, business, school,
park, and stadium should be using a
universal, standardized labeling system
that reduces contamination in the re-
cycling stream and enhances the mar-
ket viability of recyclable materials.
As citizens and consumers, Ameri-
cans want recycling to work. It is time
for Washington to get to work to make
recycling work.
f
RECOGNIZING JUNIOR LEAGUE OF
BUFFALO CENTENNIAL
(Mr. COLLINS of New York asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. COLLINS of New York. Madam
Speaker, 100 years ago today, Mary
Crate Taylor brought together a group
of 67 women to form the Junior League
of Buffalo.
Ms. Taylor organized this group of all
women volunteers to provide needed re-
lief to families during the Depression
era. During this era, the league gen-
erated tens of thousands of dollars in
donations for various causes in western
New York, including Children’s Hos-
pital.
Since 1919, the Junior League has
created programs to curb substance
abuse, assist mothers at risk of pov-
erty, combat illiteracy, and empower
women through many volunteer pro-
grams and projects.
Today, with more than 500 women,
the Junior League has generated mil-
lions of dollars in donations that ben-
efit cultural and community-based pro-
grams throughout western New York.
Happy centennial to the Junior
League of Buffalo. Keep up the great
work, and here is to 100 more.
f
WHO IS JAMES HOLZHAUER
(Mrs. LEE of Nevada asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Madam Speak-
er, on behalf of the people of Nevada’s
Third District, I rise today to recog-
nize, ‘‘Who is James Holzhauer?’’
James, a local Las Vegas resident,
shocked the world with an unrivaled
run on ‘‘Jeopardy!’’ and he did it in a
very Vegas fashion: betting big, mak-
ing some noise, and laying it all on the
line.
Madam Speaker, with 32 straight
wins and just over $58,000 shy of the all-
time record, James’ ‘‘Jeopardy!’’ skills
weren’t the only thing on display. His
charitable heart was as well. He do-
nated his time and some of his
winnings to noble local causes to im-
prove the lives of our southern Nevada
kids, students, families, and commu-
nity as a whole.
He even paid tribute to the victims of
the tragic October 1 shooting with the
wager, as he put it, ‘‘Vegas Strong,
10,117,’’ as in 10–1–17.
James may have just missed the
record, but he is a legend in our eyes,
and he did southern Nevada proud.
Congratulations, again, to James.
And if I ever see him out at a trivia
night in Vegas, I will make sure to get
him on my team. I will buy the beer.
He can handle the questions.
f
b 1130
RECOGNIZING 75TH ANNIVERSARY
OF D-DAY
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in honor
of the 75th anniversary of the Allied D-
Day invasion of France, to honor the
bravery of our Armed Forces who
served in that operation.
On June 6, 1944, 73,000 Americans
took part in Operation Overlord to
storm the beaches of Normandy. Sadly,
the United States suffered more than
6,000 casualties in this operation. Ulti-
mately, thousands more U.S. service-
members would fall in the coming
weeks and months liberating the rest
of Western Europe from German con-
trol.
Madam Speaker, last year I attended
a wreath laying ceremony at the Nor-
mandy American Cemetery and Memo-
rial in France. Looking out among the
white crosses, one could see fathers
buried next to sons and brothers next
to brothers. The average age of those
who perished was just 19 years old.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:08 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K05JN7.030 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4338 June 5, 2019
This memorial serves as a constant
reminder that the United States will
fight and die to protect the freedoms of
not just American citizens, but for
those around the globe. We are eter-
nally grateful for this devotion to duty
and devotion to country.
f
FEDERAL FUNDS FOR PUERTO
RICO
(Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania asked and was given permis-
sion to address the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Madam Speaker, it has been,
now, well over a year since the devas-
tation of Hurricane Maria hit Puerto
Rico. It ripped apart the homes and
lives of millions of Puerto Ricans, leav-
ing tens of thousands struggling with-
out jobs and housing.
Thousands of Puerto Ricans are feel-
ing the sting of insufficient Federal
funds to help the island recover from
Hurricane Maria. The Supplemental
Nutrition Assistance Program that
helps Puerto Ricans buy food, get med-
ical treatment, and recover from the
hurricane, when the money trust ran
out, Puerto Rico’s government had to
start cutting benefits just last month.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to sup-
port and see this House just pass, fi-
nally, the Disaster Relief Act, which
provides approximately $1.4 billion for
our fellow American citizens in Puerto
Rico. It provides $600 million for the
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program, $5 million for a study of the
disaster nutrition assistance provided
to the Commonwealth in 2017, and ap-
proximately $500 million to the Coast
Guard.
Madam Speaker, we must do more for
Puerto Rico.
f
HONORING MONTANANS WHO
FOUGHT AT NORMANDY ON D-DAY
(Mr. GIANFORTE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, 75
years ago, courageous Americans
stormed the beaches of Normandy and
parachuted behind enemy lines. Facing
what Supreme Allied Commander Ei-
senhower described as the German war
machine, they fought for the cause of
freedom.
Many Montanans were there:
Ed Seifert of Polson parachuted into
Normandy. He would go on to jump
into Holland during the Battle of the
Bulge;
Bud Olson of Choteau came under fire
in a glider. He was the only survivor of
28 aboard, and he would go on to lib-
erate a concentration camp;
Corky Apple of Lewistown came off a
landing craft on Utah Beach. He would
go on to earn five Bronze Stars during
the war;
John Nelson of Lolo also landed on
Utah Beach. He was with Patton’s
army when it liberated a concentration
camp near the Czech border.
As we mark the 75th anniversary of
D-Day, remember the brave Americans
who destroyed the German war ma-
chine, liberated a continent, and saved
the world from tyranny.
f
HONORING GUNNERY SERGEANT
HENRY BAUL
(Ms. TLAIB asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, it is a
great honor to be able to recognize
Gunnery Sergeant Henry Baul, the
fifth African American marine in the
Nation to be inducted into the U.S. Ma-
rine Corps in 1942 following President
Franklin Roosevelt’s Executive Order
8802, which ended discrimination in the
Armed Forces.
Although the executive order may
have intended to end all discrimina-
tion, it did not end segregation. Be-
tween 1942 and 1949, approximately
20,000 Black marines trained at a seg-
regated facility named Camp Montford
Point, New River, Marine Corps Base
Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. The
Montford Point Marines is derived
from the name of the facility, and Mr.
Baul trained there.
In 2011, President Barack Obama and
the 112th Congress passed legislation to
award the Congressional Gold Medal to
Montford Point Marines at a special
ceremony here at the U.S. Capitol and
at the Marine Barracks here in D.C.
Mr. Baul, age 96, is a resident of the
city of Detroit. He is also the founder
and president emeritus of Montford
Point Marines of America, Inc., a non-
profit organization.
I am proud to recognize Mr. Baul and
his work and service. Mr. Baul and so
many others decided to serve our coun-
try even in the face of adversity and
discrimination right here at home.
Today I lift up the veterans across
the 13th Congressional District in
Michigan in recognition of their serv-
ice and commitment.
f
RECOGNIZING D-DAY INVASION
SURVIVOR TAM CATO
(Mr. YOHO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. YOHO. Madam Speaker, I have
the honor today to recognize a living
hero, a person who served our Nation
at the shores of Normandy on D-Day,
June 6, 1944.
Mr. Tam Cato is 104 years old and
hails from Alachua, Florida. Mr. Cato
was born on March 14, 1915, and raised
in the town of Alachua on a 653-acre
farm, which he still calls his ‘‘Daddy’s
farm.’’
Mr. Cato was drafted into the U.S.
Army in February 1941 and trained at
Camp Blanding in Starke, Florida. He
was in Normandy during the invasion,
where he served and aided in the libera-
tion of France and Great Britain from
Nazi Germany.
Recently, I had the extreme privilege
of sharing in an event for Mr. Cato in
his hometown, where the French Gov-
ernment, through their council general
and French generals, presented Mr.
Cato the highest military and civilian
honor France can offer: France’s Le-
gion of Honour.
This award recognizes the American
veterans who fought on French soil
during World War II, risking their lives
in the name of freedom. This medal is
in honor of that courage and bravery.
Madam Speaker, I thank Tam Cato,
and my family and country thank him,
as do the people of France. The world
was made safer by him and others like
him who served.
f
GUN VIOLENCE AWARENESS
MONTH
(Ms. SHALALA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker,
today as we mark Gun Violence Aware-
ness Month, we wear orange to remem-
ber the victims of gun violence.
We remember Parkland. We remem-
ber Pulse and Charleston and Pitts-
burgh. We remember Virginia Beach.
We remember the children of Liberty
City and Sandy Hook.
We wear orange to remember. We
wear orange to remind ourselves that
we must not give up until children can
go to school, worshippers can go to
church, and employees can go to work
free from the fear of gun violence.
We will not give up until universal
background checks are in law and until
the weapons of war are banned from
our streets.
Madam Speaker, we will not give up
until this epidemic is over.
f
75TH ANNIVERSARY OF D-DAY
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the 75th anni-
versary of the Allied invasion of Nor-
mandy, known as D-Day, or Operation
Overlord, and to recognize those who
sacrificed to begin the liberation from
Nazi Germany.
On June 6, 1944, over 4,400 Allied sol-
diers crossed the English Channel and
gave many of their lives while storm-
ing the beaches code named Omaha,
Utah, Gold, Juno, and Sword.
Madam Speaker, 2,501 of those sol-
diers who died on those beaches were
Americans who never got to return
home.
The impact that this had on our com-
munities back home was great—take,
for example, the Bedford boys from a
small town in Bedford, Virginia. Thir-
ty-five men who had grown up together
boarded landing craft that day and em-
barked towards France, and 19 of them
didn’t make it back.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K05JN7.033 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4339
June 5, 2019
This small Southern town is an ex-
ample of the sacrifices made by many
small towns and families all across this
country during that effort that day and
during that war. They did it to protect
our freedom, our American way of life,
and those of our allies around the
world to help defeat the grip of the Na-
tional Socialist German Workers’
Party regime.
We will always be grateful for those
who gave that day, for those who sur-
vived, and for those who didn’t come
back, and that is why it is important
to always mark this day, D-Day, June
6.
f
HONORING THE PENNSVILLE
VETERANS OF FOREIGN WARS
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker,
the Pennsville Veterans of Foreign
Wars dedicate their time and their at-
tention to their community through
multiple acts of service.
Comprised of veterans and those ac-
tive in the military, the Pennsville
VFW doesn’t just talk about how they
help others, but they actively engage
in service projects that better the lives
of their community.
When local EMTs needed a battery-
operated stretcher, the Pennsville VFW
provided it; when the Pennsville Police
Department needed bulletproof vests,
they provided them as well; and when a
disabled veteran needed a ramp to get
into his home, they also provided that.
In addition to these specific acts of
service, the members of the VFW have
offered annual events to bring their
community together as a whole. Every
year, the Pennsville VFW members or-
ganize a dinner and a pheasant hunt for
disabled veterans, as well as an annual
Memorial Day parade to honor those
who have died for our great United
States of America.
We are immensely grateful to the
services of all New Jersey organiza-
tions that help those who have served
our country.
Madam Speaker, I especially want to
thank the Pennsville Veterans of For-
eign Wars, whose countless acts of
service make an incredible impact on
our community as well as our country.
We are proud of them, and we love
them for what they have done.
f
SUPPORTING THE UNITED
STATES-MEXICO-CANADA AGREE-
MENT
(Mr. MEUSER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of the proposed
United States-Mexico-Canada Agree-
ment, commonly known as USMCA.
This new trade agreement, as nego-
tiated by President Trump’s adminis-
tration, is critical to our Nation’s eco-
nomic growth. NAFTA is outdated, and
this modernization to the world’s larg-
est free trade agreement is vital to
building an economy that maximizes
opportunity for all Americans—indeed,
all of North America and Mexico.
The United States, Canada, and Mex-
ico, for decades, have fostered a work-
ing trade relationship. This trade
agreement is crucial to the manufac-
turers, fabricators, farmers, distribu-
tors, retailers, and all other businesses
in Pennsylvania’s Ninth Congressional
District and across the country.
So much of Congress’ energy this
year has been focused on messaging
votes and nonbinding resolutions. It is
time that Democrat leadership here in
the House put aside partisan politics
and put the needs of the American peo-
ple first.
The benefits to our economy are ob-
vious and significant. I urge Speaker
PELOSI to bring USMCA to the House
floor for a vote.
f
OPPOSING TARIFFS ON MEXICO
(Mr. ALLRED asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ALLRED. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to oppose the newly announced
tariffs on Mexico by this administra-
tion.
Hardworking Texans cannot be asked
to bear the brunt of a costly and un-
necessary trade war that would not
solve our problems or address our bro-
ken immigration system.
Our economy in Texas is powered by
trade with Mexico. Texas is the number
one State in the Nation for trade with
Mexico.
Last year alone, we imported $107 bil-
lion in goods from Mexico; and these
tariffs, if taken to their natural end,
could cost us $27 billion in Texas alone.
I have met with Lennox, a heating
and air-conditioning company,
headquartered in my district in Rich-
ardson, Texas. They employ 8,000
Americans, and they rely on subcompo-
nents made in Mexico to manufacture
products here in the U.S. Their busi-
ness is put at risk by these tariffs.
Toyota, another great company that
is headquartered in north Texas, has
said that these tariffs will cost them
and their suppliers as much as $1 bil-
lion.
I have heard from countless constitu-
ents about their concerns about what
this will do to the Texas economy. This
is unacceptable.
I commend my colleagues in the Sen-
ate for contemplating action to stop
these tariffs and plan to join them and
support them in the House.
f
GUN VIOLENCE AWARENESS
MONTH
(Mrs. FLETCHER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Mrs. FLETCHER. Madam Speaker,
each day, 100 Americans are killed by
guns; 100 mothers mourn the loss of a
child; 100 siblings lose a playmate; 100
friends lose a confidant; and 100 com-
munities are left reeling—all in 1 day.
These deaths are 25 times more likely
in the United States than in any other
high-income country, and we have seen
that in the news day after day and
week after week.
One hundred days ago, this House
passed the Bipartisan Background
Checks Act.
One hundred deaths per 100 days—
how much longer can we stand to wait?
It is time for the Senate to act—not
one more day, not 100 more lives.
f
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported and found truly en-
rolled a bill of the House of the fol-
lowing title, which was thereupon
signed by the Speaker:
H.R. 2157. An act making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mrs. FLETCHER. Madam Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 11 o’clock and 45 minutes
a.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Thursday, June 6, 2019, at 11 a.m.
f
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 1921, the
Ocean Acidification Innovation Act of
2019, as amended, would have no sig-
nificant effect on direct spending or
revenues, and therefore, the budgetary
effects of such bill are estimated as
zero.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
1198. A letter from the Alternate OSD
FRLO, Office of the Secretary, Department
of Defense, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Right to Financial Privacy Act
[Docket ID: DOD-2018-OS-0026] (RIN: 0790-
AK01) received June 4, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Armed Services.
1199. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s direct final rule — Air Plan Approval;
Texas; Control of Air Pollution from Motor
Vehicles [EPA-R06-OAR-2018-0811; FRL-9994-
06-Region 6] received May 31, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K05JN7.035 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4340 June 5, 2019
1200. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Oregon:
Infrastructure Requirements for the 2015
Ozone Standard [EPA-R10-OAR-2018-0679;
FRL-9994-49-Region 10] received May 31, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
1201. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Modifications to Fuel Regu-
lations To Provide Flexibility for E15; Modi-
fications to RFS RIN Market Regulations
[EPA-HQ-OAR-2018-0775; FRL-9994-87-OAR]
(RIN: 2060-AU34) received May 31, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
1202. A letter from the Director, Office of
Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regulatory
Agency, transmitting the Agency’s final
NUREG — Physical Security — Combined
Licensing and Operating Reactors (NUREG-
0800, Chapter 13) received May 30, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
1203. A letter from the Director, Office of
Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regulatory
Agency, transmitting the Agency’s final
NUREG — Operational Programs — Com-
bined Licensing and Operating Reactors
(NUREG-0800, Chapter 13) received May 30,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
1204. A letter from the Director, Office of
Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regulatory
Agency, transmitting the Agency’s final
NUREG — Toughness Fracture Require-
ments — Reactor Coolant Systems and Con-
nected Systems (NUREG-0800, Chapter 5) re-
ceived May 30, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1205. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Industry and Security, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Temporary General Li-
cense [Docket No.: 190513445-9459-02] (RIN:
0694-AH86) received June 4, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
1206. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
for Export Administration, Bureau of Indus-
try and Security, Department of Commerce,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Revisions to Country Group Designations for
Venezuela and Conforming Changes for Li-
cense Requirements [Docket No.: 190503423-
9423-01] (RIN: 0694-AH78) received June 4,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
1207. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Industry and Security, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Implementation of Cer-
tain New Controls on Emerging Technologies
Agreed at Wassenaar Arrangement 2018 Ple-
nary [Docket No.: 181129999-8999-01] (RIN:
0694-AH69) received June 4, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
1208. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Northeastern
United States; Summer Flounder Fishery;
Quota Transfer [Docket No.: 161017970-6999-02]
(RIN: 0648-XF721) received June 4, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
1209. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Atlantic Highly Migratory
Species; Atlantic Bluefin Tuna Fisheries
[Docket No.: 150121066-5717-02] (RIN: 0648-
XF534) received June 4, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1210. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Atlantic Highly Migratory
Species; Atlantic Bluefin Tuna Fisheries
[Docket No.: 150121066-5717-02] (RIN: 0648-
XF606) received June 4, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1211. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory Programs,
NOAA Fisheries, Office of Protected Re-
sources, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, transmitting the Adminis-
tration’s final rule — Taking and Importing
Marine Mammals; Taking Marine Mammals
Incidental to U.S. Air Force Launches and
Operations at Vandenberg Air Force Base,
California [Docket No.: 180816767-9270-02]
(RIN: 0648-BI44) received May 30, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
1212. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Exchange of Flatfish
in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Man-
agement Area [Docket No.: 161020985-7181-02]
(RIN: 0648-XF767) received June 4, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
1213. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
— Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Inseason Adjustment to the 2017
Gulf of Alaska Pollock Seasonal Apportion-
ments [Docket No.: 160920866-7167-02] (RIN:
0648-XF647) received June 4, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1214. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
— Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Ocean Perch in the Ber-
ing Sea and Aleutian Islands Management
Area [Docket No.: 161020985-7181-02] (RIN:
0648-XF646) received June 4, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1215. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Inseason Adjustment
to the 2017 Gulf of Alaska Pollock Seasonal
Apportionments [Docket No.: 160920866-7167-
02] (RIN: 0648-XF725) received June 4, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
1216. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
— Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Exchange of Flatfish in the Ber-
ing Sea and Aleutian Islands Management
Area [Docket No.: 161020985-7181-02] (RIN:
0648-XF762) received June 4, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1217. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Sablefish Managed
Under the Individual Fishing Quota Program
[Docket No.: 170816769-8162-02 and 170817779-
8161-02] (RIN: 0648-XG019) received June 4,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
1218. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Establishment of the Ha-
waiian Islands High and the Hawaiian Is-
lands Low Offshore Airspace Areas; Hawaii
[Docket No.: FAA-2017-1013; Airspace Docket
No.: 17-AWP-12] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received
June 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
1219. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Standard Instrument Ap-
proach Procedures, and Takeoff Minimums
and Obstacle Departure Procedures; Mis-
cellaneous Amendments [Docket No.: 31251;
Amdt. No.: 3851] received June 3, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
1220. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Standard Instrument Ap-
proach Procedures, and Takeoff Minimums
and Obstacle Departure Procedures; Mis-
cellaneous Amendments [Docket No.: 31252;
Amdt. No.: 3852] received June 3, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
1221. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Aviation Safety Organi-
zation Changes [Docket No.: FAA-2018-0119;
Amdt Nos. 1-72, 21-101, 25-145, 26-7, 27-49, 34-6,
43-50, 45-31, 60-5, 61-141, 63-40, 65-56, 91-350, 97-
1338, 107-2, 110-2, 119-19, 121-380, 125-68, 129-53,
133-16, 135-139, 137-17, 141-19, 142-10, 145-32, 183-
17] (RIN: 2120-AL05) received June 3, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
1222. A letter from the Senior Attorney-Ad-
visor, Federal Highway Administration, De-
partment of Transportation, transmitting
the Department’s correcting amendment —
Right-of-Way and Real Estate (RIN: 2125-
AF77) received June 4, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
1223. A letter from the Regulation Develop-
ment Coordinator, Office of Policy and Man-
agement, Office of the Secretary (00REG),
Department of Veterans Affairs, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Removing
Net Worth Requirement from Health Care
Enrollment (RIN: 2900-AP37) received June 4,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L05JN7.000 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4341
June 5, 2019
1224. A letter from the Regulations Coordi-
nator, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, Department of Health and Human
Services, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — Medicare and Medicaid Pro-
grams; Programs of All-Inclusive Care for
the Elderly (PACE) [CMS-4168-F] (RIN: 0938-
AR60) received May 31, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); jointly to the Committees
on Energy and Commerce and Ways and
Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Ms. WATERS: Committee on Financial
Services. H.R. 1595. A bill to create protec-
tions for depository institutions that provide
financial services to cannabis-related legiti-
mate businesses and service providers for
such businesses, and for other purposes; with
an amendment (Rept. 116–104, Pt. 1). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committee on the Judiciary discharged
from further consideration. H.R. 1595
referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself, Mr.
FORTENBERRY, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Mr.
DEUTCH, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of
Puerto Rico, Mrs. MURPHY, Mr.
SMITH of New Jersey, and Mr. KIL-
MER):
H.R. 3100. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Energy to provide for prize competitions re-
lating to climate and energy, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology.
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 3101. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to increase the maximum
Federal Pell Grant amount, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Education
and Labor, and in addition to the Committee
on Agriculture, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 3102. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to improve loans, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, and in addition to the
Committees on the Judiciary, and Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. RUTHERFORD (for himself,
Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. WALTZ, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, and Mr. STIVERS):
H.R. 3103. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to carry out a grant pro-
gram under which the Secretary shall make
grants to private entities for the provision of
service dogs to eligible veterans with post-
traumatic stress disorder, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mrs. LOWEY (for herself and Mr.
FORTENBERRY):
H.R. 3104. A bill to establish the Partner-
ship Fund for Peace to promote joint eco-
nomic development and finance ventures be-
tween Palestinian entrepreneurs and compa-
nies and those in the United States and
Israel to improve economic cooperation and
people-to-people peacebuilding programs,
and to further shared community building,
peaceful coexistence, dialogue, and reconcili-
ation between Israelis and Palestinians; to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. BONAMICI:
H.R. 3105. A bill to establish an annual fee
applicable to opioid manufacturers; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi (for
himself, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. PAYNE,
Miss RICE of New York, Mr. CORREA,
Ms. UNDERWOOD, Mr. ROSE of New
York, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr.
GREEN of Texas, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Ms. TITUS, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mrs. DEMINGS,
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico,
and Mr. PASCRELL):
H.R. 3106. A bill to require a joint domestic
terrorism report, establish within the De-
partment of Homeland Security a National
Center for the Study of Domestic Terrorism,
authorize research within the Department of
Homeland Security on current trends in do-
mestic terrorism, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security, and
in addition to the Committee on the Judici-
ary, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. DELBENE (for herself, Mr.
KELLY of Pennsylvania, Mr. MAR-
SHALL, and Mr. BERA):
H.R. 3107. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to establish require-
ments with respect to the use of prior au-
thorization under Medicare Advantage plans,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself, Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Mr.
TRONE, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Ms. UNDER-
WOOD, and Mr. GROTHMAN):
H.R. 3108. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide for a teacher
leader development program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself and Mr.
BURGESS):
H.R. 3109. A bill to provide grants to better
understand and reduce gestational diabetes,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. HECK (for himself, Mr. SCHIFF,
Mr. WELCH, Mr. HIMES, and Mr. CAR-
SON of Indiana):
H.R. 3110. A bill to amend the National Se-
curity Act of 1947 to establish a Climate Se-
curity Intelligence Center within the Office
of the Director of National Intelligence, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on In-
telligence (Permanent Select).
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ:
H.R. 3111. A bill to make administrative re-
forms to the National Flood Insurance Pro-
gram to increase fairness and accuracy and
protect the taxpayer from program fraud and
abuse, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Ms. WATERS:
H.R. 3112. A bill to revise the 90-10 rule
under the Higher Education Act of 1965, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor, and in addition to the
Committees on Armed Services, and Vet-
erans’ Affairs, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Ms. WATERS (for herself and Mr.
SMITH of New Jersey):
H.R. 3113. A bill to require the United
States Postal Service to sell the Alzheimer’s
semipostal stamp for 6 additional years; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform,
and in addition to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. LEWIS (for himself and Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico):
H.R. 3114. A bill to prohibit discrimination
on the basis of religion, sex (including sexual
orientation and gender identity), and mar-
ital status in the administration and provi-
sion of child welfare services; to improve
safety, well-being, and permanency for les-
bian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer/
questioning foster youth; and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Ways and Means,
and in addition to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. PALLONE (for himself, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. SOTO, Mrs.
DEMINGS, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER, Ms. LEE of California,
and Mrs. DAVIS of California):
H.R. 3115. A bill to direct the Adminis-
trator of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration to make grants to
State and local governments and nongovern-
mental organizations for purposes of car-
rying out climate-resilient living shoreline
projects that protect coastal communities by
supporting ecosystem functions and habitats
with the use of natural materials and sys-
tems, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. BACON (for himself, Ms. CAS-
TOR of Florida, Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. STEUBE):
H.R. 3116. A bill to provide any State with
a child welfare demonstration project that is
scheduled to terminate at the end of fiscal
year 2019 the option to extend the project for
up to 2 additional years; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Ms.
UNDERWOOD, and Mr. SCOTT of Vir-
ginia):
H.R. 3117. A bill to amend the Child Nutri-
tion Act of 1966 to establish a grant program
to provide grants to local agencies and clin-
ics to improve the health of mothers and in-
fants, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mrs. AXNE:
H.R. 3118. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit former Members of
Congress from lobbying Congress, to prohibit
the use of official funds for airline accom-
modations for Members of Congress which
are not coach-class accommodations, and to
prohibit a cost-of-living adjustment in the
pay rates for Members of Congress during
any year following a Federal budget deficit;
to the Committee on House Administration,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L05JN7.000 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4342 June 5, 2019
and in addition to the Committees on the Ju-
diciary, and Oversight and Reform, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California (for
herself, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Mr. CÁRDENAS, and Mr. LAN-
GEVIN):
H.R. 3119. A bill to award grants to States
to establish or improve, and carry out a Seal
of Biliteracy program to recognize high-level
student proficiency in speaking, reading, and
writing in both English and a second lan-
guage; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. PASCRELL,
Mr. TONKO, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. GARCÍA
of Illinois, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. SCHIFF,
Mr. POCAN, Ms. NORTON, Mr. SAR-
BANES, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. SIRES, and
Mr. FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 3120. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish an energy efficiency ma-
terials pilot program, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself and Mr. BUCHANAN):
H.R. 3121. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the adjusted
gross income limitation for above-the-line
deduction of expenses of performing artist
employees, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself and Mr.
LOEBSACK):
H.R. 3122. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit former Members of
Congress from engaging in lobbying con-
tacts; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Ms. NOR-
TON, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. RASKIN, Ms. LEE of
California, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
RUSH, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and Mr.
KHANNA):
H.R. 3123. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide tax incentives
for the establishment of supermarkets in
certain underserved areas; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
By Mr. CONAWAY (for himself, Mr.
RYAN, and Mr. GALLAGHER):
H.R. 3124. A bill to amend the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002 to require the Public Com-
pany Accounting Oversight Board to main-
tain a list of certain foreign issuers, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services.
By Mr. COURTNEY (for himself, Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. PETERSON, Mr. POCAN,
Mr. KIND, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. DELGADO,
Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. COX of California,
Ms. DELBENE, Mr. COSTA, Mr. VAN
DREW, Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr.
KATKO, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Ten-
nessee, Mr. COMER, Mr. JOYCE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. GROTHMAN, Ms.
FINKENAUER, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr.
SCHRADER, and Mr. DUFFY):
H.R. 3125. A bill to reverse declining milk
consumption in schools; to the Committee
on Education and Labor.
By Mr. DESAULNIER:
H.R. 3126. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to include publication of
written news articles as a tax-exempt pur-
pose for organizations, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Mr.
SMITH of Missouri, Mr. TONKO, and
Mr. MCKINLEY):
H.R. 3127. A bill to permit occupational
therapists to conduct the initial assessment
visit and complete the comprehensive assess-
ment under a Medicare home health plan of
care for certain rehabilitation cases; to the
Committee on Ways and Means, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. STIVERS, Mrs. MUR-
PHY, Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr.
CLEAVER, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Ms.
KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma, Mrs.
LAWRENCE, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. BYRNE,
and Mr. HUDSON):
H.R. 3128. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to uphold freedom of asso-
ciation protections, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. GOMEZ (for himself, Mr.
AGUILAR, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mrs. DEMINGS,
Ms. ESCOBAR, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. KHANNA,
Ms. LEE of California, Mr. LUJÁN,
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Ms. MOORE, Mr. MORELLE, Mr.
MOULTON, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. PETERS, Miss RICE
of New York, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
SOTO, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. WELCH, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York, Mr. RASKIN, Mrs.
FLETCHER, and Mr. GRIJALVA):
H.R. 3129. A bill to provide women with in-
creased access to preventive and life-saving
cancer screening; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Mr. GROTHMAN:
H.R. 3130. A bill to amend the Age Dis-
crimination in Employment Act of 1967 to
extend protection to additional employees;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. JAYAPAL (for herself, Mr. WIL-
SON of South Carolina, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
GRIJALVA, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. GABBARD,
Mr. SMITH of Washington, Ms. MENG,
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mrs. WAT-
SON COLEMAN, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. BERA,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, and Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY):
H.R. 3131. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to provide for research
and improvement of cardiovascular health
among the South Asian population of the
United States, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota (for
himself, Mrs. DAVIS of California, and
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina):
H.R. 3132. A bill to require the Secretary of
Defense to provide a briefing to the congres-
sional defense committees relating to the
‘‘middle tier’’ of acquisition programs, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
HIGGINS of New York, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Mr. KHANNA, Mr. LYNCH, Ms. KELLY
of Illinois, Mr. PETERS, Ms. SPEIER,
Ms. ESHOO, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. KIL-
MER, Ms. LEE of California, Mr. COX
of California, Ms. HAALAND, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. SOTO, Mr. PAPPAS, Ms.
SÁNCHEZ, Mr. CRIST, Mrs. TORRES of
California, and Mr. CÁRDENAS):
H.R. 3133. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit gay and trans panic
defenses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr.
PAPPAS, and Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire):
H.R. 3134. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to assist States to rehabili-
tate or replace certain bridges, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. LUJÁN (for himself, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. FOSTER, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. LAMB, Mr. SWALWELL
of California, and Ms. TORRES SMALL
of New Mexico):
H.R. 3135. A bill to enable projects that
will aid in the development and delivery of
related instruction associated with appren-
ticeship and preapprenticeship programs
that are focused on serving the skilled tech-
nical workforce at the National Laboratories
and certain facilities of the National Nuclear
Security Administration, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Ms. MATSUI:
H.R. 3136. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Energy to establish a program for the in-
terim storage of high-level radioactive waste
and spent nuclear fuel, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mr. MCGOVERN (for himself, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. COHEN, Ms. DELAURO,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. POCAN, Mr. PETERS,
Ms. FRANKEL, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. WELCH,
Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Mr. DEUTCH,
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York, Mr. YAR-
MUTH, Mr. MOULTON, Mrs. BEATTY,
Mr. QUIGLEY, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr.
HASTINGS, Ms. LEE of California, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York,
Mr. NEAL, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of
Pennsylvania):
H.R. 3137. A bill to establish a grant pro-
gram to encourage the use of assistance dogs
by certain members of the Armed Forces; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
By Ms. MOORE (for herself, Mr. WAT-
KINS, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mrs. BEATTY,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. WILD, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. HIGGINS of New York,
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. THOMPSON
of Mississippi, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. KELLY of Il-
linois, Mr. COX of California, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. RASKIN,
Ms. NORTON, Ms. PLASKETT, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. COLE, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Mr. LYNCH,
Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. CUMMINGS,
Mr. MEEKS, Mr. EVANS, Ms. LEE of
California, Ms. WILSON of Florida,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. RUSH, Ms.
TITUS, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mrs.
LURIA, Mr. ENGEL, Ms. HAALAND, and
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY):
H.R. 3138. A bill to award a Congressional
Gold Medal to the members of the Women’s
Army Corps who were assigned to the 6888th
Central Postal Directory Battalion, known
as the ‘‘Six Triple Eight’’; to the Committee
on Financial Services, and in addition to the
Committee on House Administration, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. NORCROSS (for himself and
Mr. PASCRELL):
H.R. 3139. A bill to better support our early
childhood educators and elementary school
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:28 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L05JN7.100 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4343
June 5, 2019
and secondary school teachers, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Education
and Labor, and in addition to the Committee
on Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. PAPPAS:
H.R. 3140. A bill to amend title 46, United
States Code, to set standards for the oper-
ation of uninspected commercial fishing ves-
sels, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. PHILLIPS:
H.R. 3141. A bill to limit the collection of
annual premiums under the FHA program
for mortgage insurance for single family
housing, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Mr. ROGERS of Alabama (for him-
self and Mr. CÁRDENAS):
H.R. 3142. A bill to amend the Food and Nu-
trition Act of 2008 to make certain multi-
vitamin-mineral dietary supplements eligi-
ble for purchase with supplemental nutrition
assistance program benefits, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. ROY (for himself, Ms. GRANGER,
Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. FLORES, Mr.
OLSON, and Mr. WEBER of Texas):
H.R. 3143. A bill to posthumously promote
Lieutenant Colonel Richard E. Cole, United
States Air Force (retired), a colonel on the
retired list; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
By Ms. SÁNCHEZ (for herself, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. COX of
California, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
COSTA, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. LAMALFA,
Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. VARGAS, Ms. JUDY
CHU of California, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Ms. BASS, Mr. CÁRDENAS,
Mr. BERA, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr.
AGUILAR, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. CORREA,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Ms. ESHOO,
Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. HARDER of Cali-
fornia, Mr. SWALWELL of California,
Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
TAKANO, Mrs. TORRES of California,
Ms. LEE of California, Ms. HILL of
California, Mr. LEVIN of California,
Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. MCNERNEY,
Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. CAL-
VERT, Mr. HUNTER, Mr. PANETTA, Ms.
MATSUI, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. THOMPSON of
California, Ms. WATERS, Mr. RUIZ,
Mr. MCCLINTOCK, Mr. COOK, Ms. POR-
TER, Mr. NUNES, Mr. MCCARTHY, and
Ms. PELOSI):
H.R. 3144. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
8520 Michigan Avenue in Whittier, Cali-
fornia, as the ‘‘Jose Ramos Post Office Build-
ing’’; to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Mr.
SOTO, Mr. MOULTON, and Mr. KEN-
NEDY):
H.R. 3145. A bill to require the Secretary of
Transportation to finalize rules to protect
consumers from the risks of carbon mon-
oxide poisoning and rollaways from motor
vehicles, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia (for
himself and Mr. DUFFY):
H.R. 3146. A bill to provide for the monthly
installment payment of premiums for cov-
erage under the National Flood Insurance
Program, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. STIVERS (for himself, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. DUNN, Mr. RUTHER-
FORD, and Mr. WALTZ):
H.R. 3147. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to provide service dogs to
veterans with mental illnesses who do not
have mobility impairments; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. TURNER (for himself and Mrs.
DAVIS of California):
H.R. 3148. A bill to improve protections for
victims of sexual assault in the Armed
Forces, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. WALKER (for himself, Mr. GAL-
LAGHER, Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr. WEBSTER
of Florida, Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. ROO-
NEY of Florida, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr.
BAIRD, Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr. ROUZER, Mr.
ROY, Mr. RICE of South Carolina, Mr.
BUDD, Mr. PALMER, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr.
BABIN, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mrs.
LESKO, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr.
MEADOWS, Mr. CLOUD, Mr. NORMAN,
Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr.
HUDSON, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr.
LOUDERMILK, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. BANKS,
Mr. KING of Iowa, and Mr. BROOKS of
Alabama):
H.R. 3149. A bill to allow a State to submit
a declaration of intent to the Secretary of
Education to combine certain funds to im-
prove the academic achievement of students;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. WATKINS (for himself and Mrs.
LEE of Nevada):
H.R. 3150. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide for interest-free
deferment on student loans for borrowers
serving in certain medical or dental intern-
ships or residency programs; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. BONAMICI (for herself, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mrs. DINGELL, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr.
SABLAN, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. CARBAJAL,
Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. SMITH of New Jer-
sey, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. COHEN,
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. KILMER,
Mr. LARSEN of Washington, and Mr.
ROONEY of Florida):
H. Res. 427. A resolution recognizing World
Oceans Day and the necessity to protect,
conserve, maintain, and rebuild our oceans
and its resources; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Technology,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. LURIA (for herself, Mr. SCOTT
of Virginia, Mr. MCEACHIN, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Mr. WITTMAN, Ms.
WEXTON, Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr. GRIF-
FITH, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. BEYER, and
Mr. CLINE):
H. Res. 428. A resolution honoring the vic-
tims of the mass shooting in Virginia Beach,
Virginia; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Ms. LEE of California:
H. Res. 429. A resolution affirming the
right of all renters to a safe, affordable, and
decent home; to the Committee on Financial
Services, and in addition to the Committee
on the Budget, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials
were presented and referred as follows:
67. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of
the House of Representatives of the State of
Maine, relative to Joint Resolution 1204, urg-
ing the President and Congress of the United
States to support the reform of the Social
Security offsets of the Government Pension
Offset and the windfall elimination provi-
sion; which was referred to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
68. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Arizona, relative to House Con-
current Memorial 2004, urging the United
States Congress to take steps to require that
any new federal areas designated within the
State of Arizona not include any water right
that prevents the State of Arizona from com-
prehensively managing its water resources;
which was referred jointly to the Commit-
tees on Natural Resources and Agriculture.
69. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Arizona, relative to House Con-
current Memorial 2002, urging the United
States Congress to appropriate monies to the
State of Arizona to eradicate salt cedars
from Arizona waterways; which was referred
jointly to the Committees on Natural Re-
sources and Agriculture.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. LIPINSKI:
H.R. 3100.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
‘‘To make all Laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into Execu-
tion the foregoing Powers, and all other
Powers vested by this Constitution in the
Government of the United States, or in any
Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 3101.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (relating to
the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress)
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 3102.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (relating to
the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress)
By Mr. RUTHERFORD:
H.R. 3103.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mrs. LOWEY:
H.R. 3104.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1
By Ms. BONAMICI:
H.R. 3105.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi:
H.R. 3106.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:35 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L05JN7.100 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H4344 June 5, 2019
By Ms. DELBENE:
H.R. 3107.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. SCHNEIDER:
H.R. 3108.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. ENGEL:
H.R. 3109.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 2
By Mr. HECK:
H.R. 3110.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Ms. VELÁZQUEZ:
H.R. 3111.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power . . . To reg-
ulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.
By Ms. WATERS:
H.R. 3112.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clause 1 of the U.S.
Constitution and Article 1, Section 9, clause
7 of the U.S. Constitution.
By Ms. WATERS:
H.R. 3113.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. LEWIS:
H.R. 3114.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. PALLONE:
H.R. 3115.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution.
By Mr. BACON:
H.R. 3116.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 of the United States
Constitution
By Ms. ADAMS:
H.R. 3117.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article II, Section 8
By Mrs. AXNE:
H.R. 3118.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 3119.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
H.R. 3120.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3. To regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several states, and with the Indian
tribes.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 3121.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8—The Congress shall
have Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties,
Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and
provide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 3122.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. COHEN:
H.R. 3123.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 (relating to
the power to interstate commerce).
By Mr. CONAWAY:
H.R. 3124.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I sec 8
By Mr. COURTNEY:
H.R. 3125.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. DESAULNIER:
H.R. 3126.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. DOGGETT:
H.R. 3127.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. GALLEGO:
H.R. 3128.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Mr. GOMEZ:
H.R. 3129.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. GROTHMAN:
H.R. 3130.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Ms. JAYAPAL:
H.R. 3131.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota:
H.R. 3132.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. KENNEDY:
H.R. 3133.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 and Clause 18.
By Mr. LANGEVIN:
H.R. 3134.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. LUJÁN:
H.R. 3135.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Ms. MATSUI:
H.R. 3136.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. MCGOVERN:
H.R. 3137.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8: to provide for the Com-
mon Defense.
By Ms. MOORE:
H.R. 3138.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. NORCROSS:
H.R. 3139.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. PAPPAS:
H.R. 3140.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 3 and Article I,
Section 8, clause 18 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. PHILLIPS:
H.R. 3141.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18. To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. ROGERS of Alabama:
H.R. 3142.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. ROY:
H.R. 3143.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of hte United States
Constitution which states, ‘‘To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.’’
By Ms. SÁNCHEZ:
H.R. 3144.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, clause 18:
Congress shall have Power—To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department of Officer
thereof.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
H.R. 3145.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power . . . To reg-
ulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.
By Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia:
H.R. 3146.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN7.019 H05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H4345
June 5, 2019
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. STIVERS:
H.R. 3147.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1: The Congress
shall have the Power to lay and collect
Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay
the Debts and provide for the common De-
fense and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States. And Article I, Section 8, Clause 18:
The Congress shall have Power To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. TURNER:
H.R. 3148.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. WALKER:
H.R. 3149.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Secction 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. WATKINS:
H.R. 3150.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 51: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 249: Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 303: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 414: Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 434: Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 586: Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. NEWHOUSE, and
Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 597: Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 598: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 613: Mr. BROWN of Maryland and Ms.
ESCOBAR.
H.R. 616: Mr. BARR.
H.R. 647: Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 663: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 693: Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 712: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 886: Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 913: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 929: Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 935: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 940: Mr. AMASH.
H.R. 959: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 1008: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 1058: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 1109: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 1168: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 1175: Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
BARR, Mr. HUDSON, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. ROG-
ERS of Kentucky, and Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 1224: Mr. SIRES, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr.
HUFFMAN, and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1225: Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. BARR, Mr.
DEUTCH, and Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 1227: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
H.R. 1289: Mr. MCCAUL.
H.R. 1309: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
VELA, Mr. PERLMUTTER, and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1327: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia and
Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 1345: Mr. NEGUSE and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 1358: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois,
Mrs. LEE of Nevada, and Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 1374: Mr. TURNER, Mrs. ROBY, and Mrs.
RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 1424: Mr. MAST.
H.R. 1434: Mr. MEUSER.
H.R. 1452: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 1530: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. KILDEE, Mr. SMITH of Missouri, and Mr.
MCKINLEY.
H.R. 1551: Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 1572: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 1581: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 1595: Mr. GRAVES of Georgia, Mr. COL-
LINS of New York, Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio, Mr.
MORELLE, Mr. CLEAVER, and Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 1610: Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 1620: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 1642: Ms. STEFANIK and Mr.
RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 1673: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 1679: Mr. HIGGINS of New York and Mr.
SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 1680: Mr. BACON, Mr. BALDERSON, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. CROW, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr.
DESJARLAIS, Mr. KING of New York, and Mr.
BERGMAN.
H.R. 1682: Ms. MOORE, Mr. DEFAZIO, and
Mr. KIND.
H.R. 1711: Mr. CARSON of Indiana and Ms.
WILD.
H.R. 1717: Mr. PANETTA.
H.R. 1723: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 1767: Mr. LANGEVIN.
H.R. 1777: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 1780: Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 1837: Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. BACON, Ms.
FINKENAUER, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, and Mr. SMITH
of New Jersey.
H.R. 1840: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 1862: Mr. ABRAHAM.
H.R. 1869: Mr. MCADAMS, Mr. MARSHALL,
Mr. RUSH, and Mr. EMMER.
H.R. 1872: Mr. ESTES.
H.R. 1878: Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. SARBANES,
Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr. SWALWELL
of California, and Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 1901: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 1903: Mr. CASE, Mr. RESCHENTHALER,
Ms. DELBENE, and Mr. MARCHANT.
H.R. 1922: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas and Ms.
BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 1923: Ms. FINKENAUER, Mr. SIRES, and
Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 1959: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 1970: Mr. SHIMKUS.
H.R. 1980: Mr. GRAVES of Georgia.
H.R. 1981: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 2086: Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 2091: Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 2117: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 2149: Mr. BARR.
H.R. 2151: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 2156: Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania and
Mr. GRIFFITH.
H.R. 2163: Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 2181: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 2204: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 2207: Mr. WOMACK.
H.R. 2258: Ms. PINGREE and Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 2278: Mr. YOHO.
H.R. 2283: Mr. MAST.
H.R. 2321: Mr. SCHWEIKERT.
H.R. 2327: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 2377: Mrs. LURIA and Mr. CASTEN of Il-
linois.
H.R. 2382: Mr. DEUTCH, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr.
ALLRED, Ms. FINKENAUER, Mr. TURNER, Ms.
HILL of California, and Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 2402: Mrs. LOWEY and Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire.
H.R. 2415: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Mr. KEN-
NEDY.
H.R. 2439: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 2443: Mr. LATTA, Mr. ALLEN, and Mr.
MOOLENAAR.
H.R. 2455: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2481: Mrs. MILLER, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
KILDEE, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, and
Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 2489: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 2498: Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 2517: Mr. HUNTER.
H.R. 2554: Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 2594: Mr. TIPTON and Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 2616: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2619: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H.R. 2653: Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 2682: Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky.
H.R. 2698: Mrs. NAPOLITANO and Mr. TIP-
TON.
H.R. 2711: Mr. ROUDA and Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 2720: Mr. DEFAZIO and Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina.
H.R. 2747: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 2748: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 2774: Mr. TIPTON, Mr. KIND, and Ms.
BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 2775: Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. DESAULNIER,
and Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 2776: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 2790: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 2805: Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 2829: Mr. MEEKS and Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 2862: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 2868: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 2869: Mr. COLE and Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 2897: Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 2913: Ms. TITUS, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Mr. CRIST, Mr.
SCHNEIDER, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
STEUBE, and Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 2931: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, and Mr.
RASKIN.
H.R. 2939: Mr. LEWIS.
H.R. 2953: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 2958: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2986: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3024: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 3051: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3072: Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, and
Mr. WALTZ.
H.R. 3073: Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 3077: Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. LARSON of Con-
necticut, Mr. RYAN, Mr. COLLINS of New
York, and Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 3078: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. THOMPSON
of Mississippi, Mr. MEADOWS, Ms. WILD, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, and Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 3084: Mr. LAMBORN.
H.J. Res. 48: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illi-
nois.
H. Con. Res. 34: Mr. LUJÁN.
H. Con. Res. 40: Ms. GARCIA of Texas and
Mr. PHILLIPS.
H. Res. 54: Mrs. HAYES and Mr. ALLRED.
H. Res. 60: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H. Res. 134: Mrs. LURIA.
H. Res. 146: Ms. SCANLON.
H. Res. 165: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI and Mrs.
LEE of Nevada.
H. Res. 246: Mr. WEBSTER of Florida and
Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H. Res. 364: Mr. VEASEY and Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York.
H. Res. 369: Ms. WEXTON.
H. Res. 391: Ms. HAALAND, Miss RICE of New
York, and Mr. SUOZZI.
H. Res. 395: Mr. RESCHENTHALER and Mr.
WATKINS.
f
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
26. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
Mr. Gregory D. Watson, a citizen of Austin,
TX, relative to respectfully urging Congress
to refrain from enacting any legislation
which would increase the compensation of
Members of Congress, given current low lev-
els of legislative productivity; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Appropriations.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:54 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN7.023 H05JNPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S3223
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 5, 2019 No. 94
Senate
The Senate met at 9:30 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal Father, the source of our
hopes and dreams, You are the stable
influence that gives us peace in a some-
times chaotic world. We praise You for
surrounding us with the shield of Your
favor and love.
Lord, continue to guide our law-
makers as they trust You to direct
their steps. Remind them that You will
not withhold good things from the up-
right. Use them to illuminate the dark-
ness of faulty thinking and to make
our Nation and world a better place to
live. Sanctify their thoughts as they
daily expose themselves to the wisdom
and consolation of Your holy Word.
Lord, as we commemorate the 75th
anniversary of D-Day, increase our
faith in the power of Your loving provi-
dence.
We pray in Your strong Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The majority leader is
recognized.
f
NOMINATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
yesterday the Senate voted to confirm
Andrew Saul of New York to serve as
Commissioner of Social Security and
voted to advance several more highly
qualified nominees.
Today we will vote to confirm three
other executive branch nominees to
important posts at the Departments of
State and Interior and at the CFTC,
and we will advance three more judi-
cial nominees to fill seats on the U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District
of Virginia and the Court of Federal
Claims.
So the Senate continues to clear the
backlog left by more than 2 years of
systematic delays and obstruction that
extended even to nominees with major
bipartisan support—impressive,
unobjectionable individuals who had
spent months and, in some cases, well
over a year on the Executive Calendar
were finally granted straightforward
votes. The modest rules change the
Senate adopted this spring is already
making a change.
In 48 session days, from January
through April, we were able to confirm
just 23 nominees. But in the 20 days im-
mediately following the modest re-
form, we confirmed 45, about twice as
many in less than half the time, and, of
course, the number of confirmations
has continued to climb in the weeks
since then. We need to get these folks
on the job for the sake of the country.
The President—any President—should
be able to stand up a government. The
American people deserve to be gov-
erned by the government they voted
for.
Many of the jobs that have been
needlessly held open are not typically
the highest profile positions, but they
are still hugely important. As I said
yesterday, until we confirm David
Schenker later today, his confirmation
to hold the top Middle East job at the
State Department will have been held
up for more than a year. This is the
Middle East position at the State De-
partment. Yet, as the cloture vote indi-
cated, this qualified nominee carries
overwhelming support. The nomination
has been held by Democrats for polit-
ical purposes. It had nothing to do with
the nominee or his qualifications for
the position. Given the crisis ranging
from Libya to Yemen and almost ev-
erywhere in between, it is past time to
have an Assistant Secretary for Near
East Affairs confirmed and on the job.
Later today we will also confirm
Susan Combs to serve as Assistant Sec-
retary of the Interior. Her non-
controversial nomination has been
pending in the Senate since July. Lis-
ten to this: since July of 2017—2 years,
700 days, just shy of 2 years. But start-
ing tomorrow, she will finally be on the
job.
These are the kinds of nominees who
once would have moved swiftly through
the Senate and certainly by voice vote.
I wish we could rediscover that tradi-
tion, but one way or another, we will
continue to make progress.
f
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on another matter, in addition to
nominations, there are a number of
other important items that Congress
ought to be able to tackle in the next
several weeks. As I have mentioned
several times, we need continued nego-
tiations in the Senate, the House, and
the White House toward a bipartisan
government funding agreement to set
up the appropriations process. We will
also need to complete a National De-
fense Authorization Act to address
critical national security challenges,
rebuild our military’s readiness, and
modernize our Armed Forces to address
the growing challenges posed by great-
power competitors like Russia and
China.
The headlines remain filled with the
unacceptable, unsustainable security
crisis and humanitarian crisis down on
our southern border. By now, I am con-
fident that every Member of Congress
has heard the breathtaking numbers.
We have all heard the chaos analyzed
1,000 different ways.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.000 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3224 June 5, 2019
What we haven’t seen is any appetite
on the Democratic side for actually
getting an outcome. We haven’t seen
the Democrats put aside their reflexive
opposition to anything—anything—the
President requests and face the facts.
So allow me to repeat some of those
facts yet again. We are all hoping they
will sink in some time soon. One week
ago this morning, border agents en-
countered the largest group of people
attempting an illegal crossing that
they have ever, ever seen. They appre-
hended more than 1,000 individuals—
the largest group ever.
For consecutive months now, the
men and women who guard our border
have apprehended more than 100,000
people—100,000. That is each month—
100,000 a month. We are talking about
numbers not seen for more than a dec-
ade. And, as we all know, in particular,
the amount of families and children are
consistently record-breaking as well.
The officials whom we trust to pro-
tect our borders—not to mention feed,
clothe, and house these individuals—
have been crying out for months that
their Agencies are stretched literally
to the breaking point. One processing
center that was designed to hold 125 is
said to hold 900—900. The Director of
the Office of Refugee Resettlement has
predicted that the program for unac-
companied children may exhaust all of
its funding this month—this month—
and need to reduce operations.
Here is one newspaper reporting on
testimony from the head of the Border
Patrol:
The flood of migrants has overwhelmed
Border Patrol stations and other Federal fa-
cilities, forcing immigration agents to re-
lease migrants directly into U.S. border com-
munities with only the hope that they will
appear for their immigration court hearings.
So this funding crisis is directly
weakening our border security and na-
tional security. It is directly worsening
the conditions for these men, women,
and children, and the authorities are
pleading for our help.
I dare say there are not many occa-
sions when the editorial board of the
New York Times has chosen to side
with the Trump administration, but
this crisis is so bad and the next step is
so obvious that it has united President
Trump, Republicans here in Congress,
and the New York Times editorial
page. I doubt if we will see that again.
Here was the title of their editorial
about a month ago: ‘‘Congress, Give
Trump His Border Money.’’ They de-
scribed:
A humanitarian crisis of overcrowding, dis-
ease, and chaos. . . . As resources are
strained and the system buckles, the misery
grows.
They published that editorial while
we were finalizing the disaster funding
legislation. There was no reason why
the funds to alleviate the humani-
tarian crisis at the border should not
have been included in that bill, and yet
my friend, the Democratic leader,
came to the floor multiple times late
last month to call the issue of border
funding ‘‘extraneous.’’
Addressing the security crisis and
humanitarian crisis is not extraneous.
It is essential. Migrants are experi-
encing overcrowded and underequipped
facilities. Our law enforcement human-
itarian professionals are crying out for
help.
Look, I understand our Democratic
colleagues find it extremely difficult to
put partisanship aside and work with
the President the American people
elected. I think the whole country sees
very clearly that Democrats in Con-
gress seem to prefer picking fights with
this President to actually getting
much done. Their partisan spite must
not prolong this misery any longer. As
long as Democrats continue to drag
their feet on this crisis, as long as they
keep slow-walking funding that every-
one from President Trump to the New
York Times sees is necessary, then, my
colleagues across the aisle will con-
tinue to own the consequences. It is on
them.
I hope my Democratic colleagues will
allow this legislation to move for-
ward—no more poison-pill policy rid-
ers, no more political posturing. It is
way past time for action.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
GUN VIOLENCE
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, last
week, a man submitted his 2-weeks’ no-
tice to his place of employment in Vir-
ginia Beach before going there and
shooting 12 people and injuring 4 oth-
ers. He unloaded dozens of rounds in-
discriminately. In addition to having
two handguns, he had extended ammu-
nition magazines and a suppressor to
muffle the sound of gunfire.
This was the 100th mass shooting in
America, coming on the 100th day of
the year. This has become a regular
part of life in the United States of
America—individuals walking into
churches and shopping malls and
schools and places of employment and
shooting indiscriminately such that
dozens of innocent lives are lost. In
most cases, the same kinds of weapons
are used—semiautomatic rifles, ex-
tended magazines—weapons or compo-
nents of weapons that are banned in
other countries and that were banned
in this country for a period of time be-
cause they were believed to have been
so dangerous such that they should
have been in the exclusive province of
the military and law enforcement.
f
REMEMBERING RYAN KEITH COX
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, Ryan
Keith Cox was 50 years old when he was
shot and killed on May 31. He was
known for his soft-spoken nature and
his powerful singing voice in his church
choir, and he was constantly affecting
those around him with small but mean-
ingful gestures of kindness.
The day that he was killed in Vir-
ginia Beach, a close coworker of
Ryan’s, Christi Dewar, was with him
when the shooting started. Ryan told
Christi and other colleagues to barri-
cade themselves in the break room.
Christi implored Keith to join them in
the break room, but he said to her ‘‘I
have to go check on the other ones.’’
Keith left and was soon shot by the
gunman as he was assisting other co-
workers in reaching safety.
Christi said:
Every time I was upset, [Ryan] would give
me a [big] hug. When I was upset about
something, he knew exactly what to say to
make you smile. He’s the type of person who
you know would lay down his life for some-
one, just like he did.
Bishop Williams of Faith World Min-
istries in Norfolk said that he had
known Keith and his family for years.
They were close, a very loving family,
and had just been ‘‘leaders in the
church world,’’ Bishop Williams said.
Ryan Keith Cox was 50 years old
when he was shot in Virginia Beach.
f
REMEMBERING JOSHUA HARDY
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, Joshua
Hardy was 2 years older. He was 52
years old. He had been working for 41⁄2
years as an engineer and technician for
the city of Virginia Beach. He was
raised in Hampton Roads. He came
from a really big family, and he was de-
scribed by his friends and his family as
being incredibly caring, especially
about kids. He didn’t have any children
of his own, but he often watched over
his nieces and nephews.
One of his nieces, Tasha, remembered
that he was around a lot. ‘‘He cared
about me and all of my cousins,’’ she
said. ‘‘He was like a father figure to me
because my dad wasn’t around.’’
In 2011, Joshua actually published a
book, called the ‘‘ABC Book on Pro-
tecting Yourself from Strangers.’’
The people he worked with remember
being so impressed that Joshua had
gone above and beyond the call. One of
his colleagues in the engineering de-
partment, Larry Knight, gave a copy of
the book to his daughter and his grand-
son. He remembers Joshua as just al-
ways having a smile on the job:
Joshua was one of the nicest men you
would ever care to meet. He was funny and
kindhearted. [He] would do anything for you.
f
REMEMBERING LAQUITA BROWN
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President,
LaQuita Brown was 39 years old. She
was a public servant from Chesapeake,
VA. She had worked in the public
works department for more than 4
years. She was a right-of-way agent.
Her friends called her ‘‘Ms. Worldwide’’
because she loved to travel. She had
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.002 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3225
June 5, 2019
been all around the world, and her so-
cial media was plastered with pictures
of her travels.
Her father, as any father would be, is
absolutely heartbroken by her death.
He said:
She was just everything. She was every-
thing to me. I know nobody’s perfect—but
from the time she was born, she had no
faults.
For the Brown family, the grief sur-
rounding LaQuita’s death comes on the
heels of LaQuita’s brother dying from a
hit-and-run driver 3 years ago. Her fa-
ther said that LaQuita helped him
through the grief. ‘‘She saved me,’’ he
said. ‘‘I wouldn’t have made it through
that [without her].’’
In 100 days into the year, we have had
100 mass shootings. It doesn’t happen
anywhere else in the world except in
the United States of America. We can’t
claim to be helpless, and we can’t
claim to have no solutions because, if
it only happens here and nowhere else,
then there must be something different
happening here. We can learn. We can
adapt.
It has now been 100 days since the
House of Representatives passed a uni-
versal background checks bill, a uni-
versal background checks bill that is
supported by 90 percent of Americans
and would have a significant downward
effect on the number of people who are
shot in this country.
We tend to pay attention as a nation
and as a body only when something
like Virginia Beach happens, when
there is a mass shooting of an epic
scale—when 5 or 10 or 20 people lose
their lives at one time. Yet, since the
House passed the universal background
checks bill, 10,000 people have been
shot and killed in America. That is a
stunning number.
There have been 10,000 people shot
and killed in America in just the 100
days since the House passed the uni-
versal background checks bill, but the
vast majority of these individuals were
not killed in mass shootings. Most of
these were suicides. Most of these were
individuals who had taken their own
lives with weapons. Others were acci-
dental shootings. Many of them were
homicides.
The grief and the pain that comes
with all of those is no different than
the grief that LaQuita Brown’s family
is feeling right now. We should care
about every single one of these deaths.
The reason I pegged this to the pas-
sage of the background checks bill is
that we know that background checks
save lives in States that have universal
background checks, meaning, if you
are getting a gun in a commercial sale,
you need to prove that you are not a
criminal or that you are not seriously
mentally ill. In the States that have
universal background checks, you have
fewer suicides, and you have fewer
homicides.
Connecticut is a perfect example.
The research shows that once we
passed our universal background
checks requirement—and we did it
quite a number of years ago—we saw a
40-percent reduction in gun homicides
in our State. Similarly, when Missouri
went from having a universal back-
ground checks requirement to its not
having one, the State saw a 40-percent
increase in gun homicides.
Not every single one of these 10,000
deaths was preventable, but many of
them could have been. It is not that we
don’t know what to do, and it is not
that we don’t know what makes this
country different; it is just that we are
unwilling to take those steps.
Just this past weekend, 52 people
were shot in communities across this
country. There were 10 deaths from
gunshot wounds in Chicago alone.
These victims are just as worthy of re-
membering as the victims in Virginia
Beach or in Sandy Hook or in Park-
land.
f
REMEMBERING GWAIN BROWN
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, Gwain
Brown was 16 years old. He was a soph-
omore in high school in Chicago, IL,
and he was all hyped up to throw him-
self the biggest 16th birthday party
that his friends had ever seen. At the
end of April, he was going to throw
down. Yet, on April 1, he was standing
in front of a gas station when a gun-
man opened fire and hit Gwain in the
leg and the chest.
One of his basketball teammates
thought the initial news of Gwain’s
death was an April Fools’ joke as it
happened on April 1. So, when he heard
about it, he just went back to sleep.
His friends said Gwain was the life of
the party and was so energetic. ‘‘I was
. . . with him . . . a week ago, and for
that to happen in this time period, I’m
just in shock.’’
At a vigil, his elementary school
principal read an excerpt of something
he had written well in school.
Gwain wrote: ‘‘I want to be a good
son, always be there for my mom and
always be there to take care of her.’’
f
REMEMBERING JAYLIN ELLZEY
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, a cou-
ple weeks ago, Jaylin Ellzey was a
freshman at Fenger Academy High
School in Chicago. According to his
uncle, Jacob, he was an outgoing, kind-
hearted kid. He lived with his mother.
He had two sisters and three brothers.
Jaylin is not around anymore be-
cause he was one of those victims of
gun violence in the city of Chicago.
His uncle said:
Summer in the city, it’s just something
different. Other kids look forward to going
to summer camp. He was just trying to make
sure he lived another day.
His uncle, Jacob, began tearing up as
he recalled his favorite memory of
Jaylin as a small child. Whenever
Jaylin and his brother would come stay
with their uncle, they would take a
bath, and then they would nestle
amongst the pillows and the blankets,
waiting for their uncle to blast them
with hot air from a blow dryer.
‘‘He was just a lovable kid surviving
his environment,’’ said his uncle. ‘‘And
he knew about family. Family was al-
ways instilled in him.’’
Since my life was changed in Decem-
ber of 2012, when 20 first graders were
killed in Sandy Hook, I have tried to
come down to the floor every couple
weeks and tell the stories of victims of
gun violence in this country to try to
put some personality behind the 10,000
lives that have been lost in the last 100
days, and I told you about 5 of the vic-
tims this morning.
Our inaction is complicity. There are
tough things, and then there are easy
things. I get it that there are some
anti-gun violence measures that I
would support that are just too hot for
some Republican Members, but I don’t
care what State you are from, 97 per-
cent of your constituents, 80 percent of
your constituents—the vast majority
of your constituents—support expand-
ing background checks to make sure
that if you buy a gun online or you buy
a gun at a gun show, you have to go
through a 5-minute background check.
All of our constituents, no matter
whether we represent a blue State or a
red State, support extreme risk protec-
tion orders—the idea that you should
be able to go to court when somebody
is on the verge of lashing out against
someone else or going to hurt them-
selves and take away their guns, at
least temporarily. These are things
that are not controversial anywhere,
except for here, that we could pass.
Since the House passed the back-
ground check bill—by the way, with bi-
partisan support—10,000 people have
died, but there have been 109 mass
shootings. Thirty-one States have had
a mass shooting; 166 kids have been
killed or injured; 175 teenagers have
been killed or injured.
I am on the floor today to send my
heartfelt condolences to the families in
Virginia Beach who continue to mourn
yet another mass shooting. I express,
as I always do, my condolences to the
families of gun violence throughout
this country. Eighty to ninety people
lose their life every day from a gunshot
wound.
I am also here today to ask my col-
leagues to think about why we con-
tinue to refuse to have a debate on a
piece of legislation that the House
passed 100 days ago in a bipartisan
fashion.
Even if you don’t love the version of
the background checks bill that the
House passed, bring your own version
to the floor—bring a different bill that
will address the epidemic of gun vio-
lence in this country. All I ask is that
you don’t do nothing; that you stop
your absolute silence in the face of this
epidemic of slaughter.
Let the Senate be the Senate. I heard
there was a time some years ago when
the U.S. Senate actually debated legis-
lation. I have read in the history books
that this is supposedly the greatest de-
liberative body in the world. We are
doing no deliberation here. Bill after
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.004 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3226 June 5, 2019
bill passes the House of Representa-
tives. None of them come before the
Senate for a vote—no healthcare bills,
no immigration bills, no anti-gun vio-
lence bills.
I get it that the bills that pass the
House probably can’t pass a Repub-
lican-led Senate, but why are we not
even trying? Who is in charge here?
The special interests who want nothing
to happen, the gun lobby, the health
insurance companies or are we in
charge? We are the ones who were
elected. We are the Members of the
U.S. Senate. We could choose to have
these debates, hash out our differences,
and see if there is a proposal that 60 of
us could agree on that would do some-
thing about this unacceptable level of
gun violence that plagues this Nation
on a daily basis.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the order for the quorum call
be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
f
TARIFFS
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, yes-
terday on the floor I said I don’t be-
lieve President Trump will follow
through on his threat to impose tariffs
on Mexico. Why? First, because the
President has a tendency for bluster.
There are many examples of the Presi-
dent taking a maximalist position be-
fore eventually backing off and an-
nouncing some different solution. Nine
times out of ten, after a few months,
everyone realizes that the so-called so-
lution isn’t real and doesn’t work, but
the President needs a way out of his
bluster. That may well be true with the
tariff issue.
Second, most Senate Republicans op-
pose the President’s idea of slapping
tariffs on Mexico. They know how that
could destabilize our economy and
Mexico’s and that it could actually
make the migration problem worse.
Publicly, the President has continued
the tough talk on tariffs with Mexico—
he responded to my statement on the
floor with a tweet last night—but ulti-
mately I continue to believe he will
back off. That has been his MO. When
he does, I would urge him to consider a
real solution to the border problem,
not some fake solution that he and the
Mexicans announce, and then it does
nothing—they don’t follow through, it
doesn’t have effect, whatever.
Here is a commonsense policy that
will actually reduce the problems at
the border: Many of the migrants that
arrive at our southern border are flee-
ing untenable situations—gang vio-
lence, drug cartels, corruption, domes-
tic abuse, economic depravity. If you
are starving, if you are worried that
your child will be mugged, if you are
worried that your daughter will be
raped, you ain’t staying there. The
governments of those countries have
failed to provide safety or security for
people living within their borders in
Nicaragua, in Honduras, and in El Sal-
vador. Their citizens—or some of
them—feel compelled to embark on a
dangerous 1,000-mile journey on foot
rather than stay put because staying
put is even worse for them.
These are not evil people. The Presi-
dent would like to make them all out
to be drug dealers or criminals. Most of
them are poor people who are trying to
escape the dangers created by the prob-
lems of gang violence, economic hard-
ship, social oligarchy.
We Democrats have crafted legisla-
tion that would help address the prob-
lems in those three Central American
countries that are causing the mi-
grants to flee in the first place.
First, we would allow asylum seekers
to apply for asylum within their own
countries. That thousand-mile trek
across Mexico is dangerous. It is often
expensive. You have to pay a coyote or
buy off drug dealers or other criminals.
Let them apply in Honduras, in El Sal-
vador, in Guatemala and not amass at
the border. Second, we provide signifi-
cant security assistance to Central
American countries to build their ca-
pacity, crack down on the gangs and
drug cartels and human trafficking
that is endemic in those countries, and
we would increase the number of immi-
gration judges and personnel to reduce
the current backlog of cases at the bor-
der.
These policies make eminent sense,
and unlike the President’s plan to im-
pose tariffs on Mexico, our proposals do
not threaten the U.S. economy. We
would urge our Republican colleagues
to join us in this commonsense solu-
tion.
When the President inevitably re-
treats from his tariff threat—which
may be as soon as this afternoon—we
should proceed on these commonsense
policies, not some fake thing that
sounds good in an announcement and
then goes away like we have seen over
and over again when the President con-
ducts foreign policy—North Korea
being one of the most notorious exam-
ples.
Over the past year, the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia, despite some positive do-
mestic reforms, has too often acted
like a brute in the Middle East rather
than a stabilizing force.
I understand that Saudi Arabia wor-
ries about Iran. I share those concerns
about the Iranian Government, but the
Saudis have all too often reacted in the
wrong way. In Yemen, the Saudis are
fighting a proxy war that has resulted
in untold human suffering and the
slaughter of innocents of many chil-
dren. Internally, the Saudi Govern-
ment has conducted a widespread cam-
paign of political repression, including
the imprisonment of women’s rights
campaigners. We all know how the
Saudis were responsible for the vicious
torture and chilling murder of a jour-
nalist and American resident Jamal
Khashoggi.
Despite these gross violations of
international norms and values, the
Trump administration has just cozied
up with Crown Prince Muhammad bin
Salman and offered almost no criti-
cism.
We have just learned, according to
reports, that the Trump administra-
tion approved seven transfers of Amer-
ican nuclear technology to the Saudis,
including two after Khashoggi’s mur-
der. Now the administration is using
its favorite tool, claiming emergency
powers to justify another 22 arms sales
to the Saudis and others, including pre-
cision-guided munitions for Saudi’s op-
erations in Yemen.
Has the Trump administration lost
all perspective when it comes to Saudi
Arabia—providing excuses and cover
for the brutal murder of a journalist
and American resident, aiding and
arming the Saudis in a human rights
tragedy in Yemen, which will only
come back to hurt him in the long run.
What are we doing here?
Congress has already voted, in bipar-
tisan majorities, to unwind America’s
involvement in Yemen, which, of
course, the President vetoed, and now
we ought to vote to disapprove these
arms sales.
The chairman of the Appropriations
Subcommittee on Foreign Operations,
Senator GRAHAM, urged by our ranking
member of Foreign Relations and our
leader on this issue, Senator MENEN-
DEZ, has thankfully announced the bi-
partisan effort to do just that. I strong-
ly support that effort.
Let me say, my Republican friends,
over the last years of the Obama ad-
ministration, bitterly complained
about the way President Obama used
Executive authority. The amount of
Executive authority used by President
Obama could fit in a thimble compared
to the abuse of Executive authority by
President Trump. Yet it seems, in the
past, our Republican colleagues who so
criticized Obama for much less have
been totally silent when President
Trump abuses Executive authority, but
now maybe there are some green
shoots.
Maybe some of our Republican col-
leagues in the Senate are waking up to
the idea that in America we have a
three-branch government, not a one-
branch government, and maybe some of
our Republican colleagues are recog-
nizing that and beginning to act—the
possible green shoots. Two instances;
one is tariffs. Our Republicans don’t
like these tariffs. Will they have the
guts, if the President implements
them, to oppose the President? We will
see.
Now, on Saudi arms sales, a number
of Senate Republicans are beginning to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.005 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3227
June 5, 2019
say we need to constrain the President
the way the Congress has traditionally
constrained the executive branch. I am
hopeful, but I am also skeptical.
If the past is prologue, my Repub-
lican friends will ultimately back
down. Leader MCCONNELL, his MO, will
let a few of them off the hook so they
can go home and say they supported it
but never enough to make sure Con-
gress provides an effective check on
the President. It is sort of a wink and
a nod. Well, let’s hope this time it is
different. Let’s hope that these
murmurings among Republicans about
the Saudi arms sales and about the tar-
iffs are real, and they will actually
stand up to him, which is what a Con-
gress should do even when they are of
the same party as the President.
f
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, on the
climate, as I have said so many times,
no threat poses a greater danger to our
planet than that of climate change.
The last 5 years have been the warmest
on record. There is more carbon dioxide
in the air than any point in human his-
tory. Our children and grandchildren
will live with the consequences of the
decisions we make today. We need all
hands on deck—the Federal Govern-
ment, local governments, municipali-
ties, corporate leaders, global efforts—
if we are to meet the challenges of cli-
mate change head-on, but for years our
government has been too slow to act
and more often than not we have done
nothing or very little.
Just yesterday, President Trump
once again—not based on fact, based on
whim, as he so often acts—voiced a
dangerous skepticism about climate
change while meeting with Prince
Charles.
Now, one of the biggest reasons for
the slow progress on climate policy has
been the oppressive grip of Big Oil, Big
Gas, and Big Coal, on our political sys-
tem. They spent untold millions to de-
bunk climate science and torpedo cli-
mate legislation. One of the largest
perpetrators has been the U.S. Cham-
ber of Commerce, which never reveals
its donors and has acted all too often
as a front for Big Oil.
Recently, as public support for action
upon climate change has grown even
more overwhelming, the chamber is
starting to sing a different tune. They
have launched a campaign for cleaner
energy sources. They have added a new
section to their website, ‘‘Addressing
Climate Change.’’ They now even say
that, on this issue, ‘‘inaction is not an
option.’’ Well, I could not agree more;
inaction is not an option, but color me
skeptical about the chamber.
I hope to see the chamber follow its
public stance with real action, but
until I do, I fear this change is merely
cosmetic. All too often, the big oil and
big coal companies don’t act them-
selves, although some do, but they let
the chamber do their dirty work for
them. So today SHELDON WHITEHOUSE
and I, along with a number of our col-
leagues, will be sending a letter to the
chamber, calling on them to speak out
against the administration’s effort to
undermine the ‘‘National Climate As-
sessment.’’ It is not enough to simply
say: Oh, well, it is a problem.
Inaction is not an option. They must
do something concrete. This is a con-
crete action we are proposing that will
make a difference. I read in today’s
New York Times that companies are
now beginning to plan for how climate
change will cost them more money in
the next 5 years. They don’t think it is
no problem. They don’t think it is a 30-
year problem. These companies and
their interest in their profits—that is
how they should be interested, al-
though I would like to see them a little
more interested in workers and com-
munities and climate. These compa-
nies, for their own bottom lines, are
saying climate change is real, and we
better do something.
Well, one way the chamber can move
things along is to speak out against
this administration in its efforts to un-
dermine the ‘‘National Climate Assess-
ment.’’ For years, this study has been
the gold standard for climate research
within our government. It is not par-
tisan. It is factual; it is based on
science; and it assesses the long-term
threats to climate change.
The President is sort of, on climate,
a member of the Flat Earth Society,
just denying the facts. It would be as if
Columbus sailed, and the President
still said the earth is flat. That is how
he is acting on climate. Well, the
Chamber ought to break with that.
They ought to let science and facts de-
termine how we act.
This is a moment when the Chamber
could actually use its influence to con-
vince the administration to reverse
course. If the business community said
this, it would make a big difference. So
this is a moment. Let’s see if the cham-
ber really wants to prove that they are
for climate change. Let’s see. Let’s see.
If they don’t, we ask their members
who say they believe in climate—and
who are even planning for the problems
we face—to put pressure on them to do
it. Let’s hope. Let’s hope.
Now, before I yield the floor, I just
want to send a kudos—he reminded me
that the word ‘‘kudos’’ is singular, not
plural, which I did not know for all of
my years here. Mr. President, I see by
your reaction, you did not know either.
It is a kudos. So let me gave a kudos to
SHELDON WHITEHOUSE’s leadership on
this issue. One of his many positive
traits is he knows grammar and all of
that much better than most of us, but
one of his greater traits is how he has
been relentless in pushing forward on
climate and on pushing corporate
America to do more.
I look forward to continuing to work
with him to shed light on the role that
Big Money plays in undermining cli-
mate policy, and I look forward to
hearing from the chamber of commerce
on what they have to say about the ad-
ministration’s latest attacks on cli-
mate science.
I yield the floor.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of David
Schenker, of New Jersey, to be an As-
sistant Secretary of State (Near East-
ern Affairs).
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent to complete my
remarks.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The remarks of Mrs. BLACKBURN per-
taining to the introduction of S. Res.
233 are printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
Mrs. BLACKBURN. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). The Senator from Arkansas.
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the votes fol-
lowing the first vote in the series be 10
minutes in length—I say again, 10 min-
utes in length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
VOTE ON SCHENKER NOMINATION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Schenker nomination?
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea’’ and the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Illinois (Ms. DUCKWORTH),
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.006 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3228 June 5, 2019
the Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 83,
nays 11, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 137 Ex.]
YEAS—83
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—11
Baldwin
Booker
Brown
Harris
Hirono
Kaine
Klobuchar
Markey
Smith
Stabenow
Udall
NOT VOTING—6
Alexander
Duckworth
Gillibrand
Moran
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Heath P. Tarbert, of Maryland, to be
Chairman of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Tarbert nomination?
Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from Texas (Mr. CRUZ), and the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea,’’ the
Senator from Texas (Mr. CRUZ) would
have voted ‘‘yea,’’ and the Senator
from Kansas (Mr. MORAN) would have
voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Illinois (Ms. DUCKWORTH),
the Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 84,
nays 9, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 138 Ex.]
YEAS—84
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—9
Blumenthal
Booker
Harris
Hirono
Klobuchar
Markey
Merkley
Schatz
Schumer
NOT VOTING—7
Alexander
Cruz
Duckworth
Gillibrand
Moran
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
The assistant bill clerk read the
nomination of Heath P. Tarbert, of
Maryland, to be a Commissioner of the
Commodity Futures Trading Commis-
sion for a term expiring April 13, 2024.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Tarbert nomination?
Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea’’ and the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Illinois (Ms. DUCKWORTH),
the Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote
or to change their vote?
The result was announced—yeas 85,
nays 9, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 139 Ex.]
YEAS—85
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—9
Blumenthal
Booker
Harris
Hirono
Klobuchar
Markey
Merkley
Schatz
Schumer
NOT VOTING—6
Alexander
Duckworth
Gillibrand
Moran
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is consider made and laid upon
the table, and the President will be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tion.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Susan Combs, of Texas, to be an
Assistant Secretary of the Interior.
Mitch McConnell, Pat Roberts, Steve
Daines, John Barrasso, Tim Scott,
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Roger
F. Wicker, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Richard
Burr, Mike Crapo, David Perdue, John
Thune, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott, Mike
Rounds, John Cornyn.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.001 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3229
June 5, 2019
of Susan Combs, of Texas, to be an As-
sistant Secretary of the Interior, shall
be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY),
and the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea’’, the
Senator from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY)
would have voted ‘‘yea’’, and the Sen-
ator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN) would
have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Illinois (Ms. DUCKWORTH),
the Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 56,
nays 37, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 140 Ex.]
YEAS—56
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—37
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Durbin
Feinstein
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Alexander
Cassidy
Duckworth
Gillibrand
Moran
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 56, the nays are 37.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Susan Combs,
of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary
of the Interior.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
TARIFFS
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, since
President Trump announced his intent
to impose tariffs on goods imported to
the United States from Mexico, I have
been perplexed at the reaction from our
Democratic colleagues on both sides of
the Capitol. They seem to have washed
their hands of the humanitarian crisis
occurring at the border.
Again, these are President Obama’s
words. In 2014 he identified this crush
of humanity coming across from Cen-
tral America into the United States
claiming asylum as a humanitarian
and security crisis. But our Democratic
friends are simply washing their hands
of any responsibility and have not of-
fered any solutions or any ideas on how
to solve the problem.
Perhaps they feel like this is Presi-
dent Trump’s problem, but this is more
than just the President’s problem. It is
America’s problem and challenge: How
do we deal with this flood of humanity?
I would like to be clear on one point.
I agree with the President that Mexico
needs to do more to staunch the flow of
people across its borders and into the
United States. They must do more and
we must do more to stop this mass mi-
gration, but any action must prioritize
both our country’s physical and our
economic security.
Tariffs are not my first choice on
how to address this problem. In fact,
that is not the most responsible way to
address this. The most responsible way
to address it is by taking up, debating,
and voting on bipartisan legislation
that would actually fix the vulnerabili-
ties in our current law that are being
exploited by the human smugglers who
are charging between $5,000 and $10,000
per person to smuggle people from Cen-
tral America, across Mexico, and into
the United States.
Tariffs, on the other hand, would be a
massive tax. The U.S. Chamber esti-
mates that Texas alone would face $5.35
billion in increased costs as a result of
a 5-percent tariff that could take effect
as early as Monday. This translates
into about $1,000 more on a car.
I am happy that the Vice President
and Secretary Pompeo are meeting
with the Mexican Foreign Minister and
other officials today. Actually, I am
encouraged by the response of the
Mexican Government, and I can only
hope that they come up with some sort
of agreement so that these tariffs do
not go into effect.
Stronger action by Mexico would be a
step in the right direction, but it
doesn’t come close to solving the un-
derlying problem. I feel like a broken
record at times, constantly reminding
my colleagues here of the challenges
we are facing in Texas because of this
crisis.
More than 100,000 people illegally
crossed our southern border between
March and April—100,000. That is not a
combined figure. It is about 100,000
each month. The Department of Home-
land Security has not released statis-
tics for the month of May, but I am not
expecting any good news.
As a matter of fact, if nothing
changes, the pull factors—the reasons
why people would leave their homes in
Central America, cross Mexico, and
make this dangerous trip into the
United States—are doing nothing but
getting worse, encouraging more and
more people to take that dangerous
trip.
Unlike in previous years, the vast
majority of those crossing aren’t from
Mexico, as I said. So far this fiscal
year, 74 percent of the Border Patrol’s
apprehensions across the southern bor-
der were people coming from Guate-
mala, Honduras, and El Salvador.
And if you talk to the McAllen Sec-
tor Border Patrol chief, he will tell you
that last year alone people from 140 dif-
ferent countries—140 different coun-
tries—came across our southern border
with Mexico and into the United
States. That is because they realize, if
you can fly or get any way you can—
take a boat, swim, get to Central
America—you can make your way up
from Central America into the United
States. The individuals illegally enter-
ing our country are overwhelmingly ei-
ther families or unaccompanied chil-
dren, which means we don’t have the
facilities, the resources, or legal au-
thorities. We need to expeditiously
process them and care for them prop-
erly.
What is more, 70 percent of unaccom-
panied children and family unit appre-
hensions are occurring in just two sec-
tors—El Paso and the Rio Grande Val-
ley—making the State of Texas and its
border communities the hardest hit.
We are ground zero for this crisis. As
I said, this is equated to an all-out hu-
manitarian crisis along the border. Our
law enforcement officials, city leaders,
nongovernmental organizations—ev-
eryone who wants to treat these mi-
grants compassionately and appro-
priately is being completely over-
whelmed by the massive waves of peo-
ple who are entering our country.
We need to get to work on both
short-term and long-term solutions.
First, we need to get additional fund-
ing to the departments and agencies
that are trying to manage this crisis
and care for the migrants in their cus-
tody. Without action here in Congress,
funding could dry up by the end of this
month, creating an even more dire sit-
uation. That should be our most imme-
diate focus—getting funding to the
agencies responsible for managing this
crisis. I know the appropriators are
working on this, and I hope we can
come up with a solution soon because
time is not on our side. But that is not
a fix; that is a patch.
Any sort of lasting change cannot be
solved by a funding bill or by tariffs. It
has to be solved by something only
Congress can do—passing legislation
that addresses the root of the problem.
From what I know, there is only one
bill that would address this humani-
tarian crisis at the border, a bill that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.014 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3230 June 5, 2019
already has Republican and Demo-
cratic support. That is a bill I intro-
duced called the HUMANE Act.
I have learned a lot when it comes to
legislating on immigration issues. A
lot of folks are more interested in talk-
ing about it than they are interested in
finding a solution. But that wasn’t the
case when I picked up the phone and
called my friend HENRY CUELLAR, a
Democrat from Laredo, TX. Obviously,
I am a Republican. HENRY is a Demo-
crat in the House. But he understands
this situation better than most, and he
has been my consistent ally in working
on a number of ways to bring common-
sense reform to these issues.
We don’t always agree on everything,
but we do agree on some things, and
where we do agree, we work together to
try to provide effective solutions. As I
mentioned, we introduced the HU-
MANE Act last month, which will
make targeted, long-overdue reforms
to our immigration system. Impor-
tantly, it includes provisions that both
Republicans and Democrats should be
able to agree on. First, it closes a
major loophole that is often exploited
by families and the human smugglers
who move them across the border ille-
gally. This is the Flores settlement
agreement. This is a lawsuit and a set-
tlement.
Flawed court rulings have looked at
the Flores settlement and have turned
this once well-intentioned agreement
into a major pull factor for migrants
hoping to game the system. They know
we can’t detain children and family
units for more than 20 days, and they
are using it against us to game the sys-
tem, to win, to successfully place peo-
ple into the United States because we
simply don’t have the authorities to
detain them until they can present
their claims to an immigration judge.
Rather than single adults arriving at
the border alone, we know that the
smugglers are sending children, some-
times unaccompanied, sometimes pos-
ing as a family unit when they are not
even biologically related—so much
that the Department of Homeland Se-
curity has now been giving DNA test-
ing to determine whether an adult is
falsely claiming a child to be their bio-
logical offspring so that they can make
their way into the country, exploiting
the gaps and loopholes that I have
talked about.
Children are literally being kid-
napped to serve as free tickets into the
United States. Tragically, they are
often abused, physically or sexually,
along the way, and many arrive at our
border in critical health.
I have shared the concern expressed
by Members of Congress on both sides
of the aisle when we see children die in
some of our facilities along the border,
but that is not because they got sick
there in the first place. They got ill on
the way, coming from Central America,
across Mexico, into the United States,
suffering from exposure, being exposed
to all sorts of infectious diseases. By
the time they get into U.S. custody,
some of them simply don’t survive.
That is a terrible human tragedy. But
the problem is not trying to create
more medical facilities at the border;
it should be to try to stop people from
making this dangerous trek in the first
place.
The HUMANE Act would stop that
practice by clarifying that the Flores
agreement applies only to unaccom-
panied children, which was the original
agreement, not family units as it was
subsequently interpreted by another
court. It would provide more time for
processing and immigration pro-
ceedings to take place before families
could be released from custody.
Under the current practice, because
the numbers are overwhelming the ca-
pacity of the immigration courts to
hear these cases—and there is simply
not enough time to get to these cases
when you have to release them in 20
days—they are given a notice to appear
for a future court date. Guess what.
The vast majority of them simply don’t
show up for that court hearing, and
they remain in the United States per-
haps for the rest of their lives unless,
perhaps, they get picked up for an un-
related crime.
Our legislation would require that all
accompanied children be processed ex-
actly the same, regardless of their
country of origin.
Under current law, children from
Mexico or Canada can be promptly re-
turned home. But the process for other
countries moves much more slowly and
represents another vulnerability in our
legal authorities. I believe we should
make every effort to safely return all
children to their home countries as
soon as possible, regardless of what
country they are from.
This bill includes other provisions to
protect children who have been
brought to our border, such as biomet-
ric screening to ensure that they are
literally the biological offspring of the
people who claim to be their parents
rather than a human trafficker.
It would also place prohibitions on
certain individuals who would serve as
guardians. For example, no child
should be released into the custody of a
sex offender or human trafficker. We
don’t have that confidence now.
The HUMANE Act would enable fam-
ilies to stay together. There has been a
lot of discussion about separation of
children from their families. We want
them to stay together. I think we all
agree that should be the standard, but
we also need to streamline the proc-
essing of those in custody.
Consistent with the recommenda-
tions by the bipartisan Department of
Homeland Security Advisory Com-
mittee, the bill would require the De-
partment of Homeland Security to es-
tablish at least four regional proc-
essing centers along the southern bor-
der to house and process these families.
They would literally serve as a one-
stop shop, with Department of Home-
land Security personnel, folks from
Custom and Border Protection, ICE—
Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment—the immigration service, and
FEMA all working together to assist
migrants and working to process their
claims on a timely and respectful basis.
Asylum officers would also be required
to be onsite to adjudicate claims as
soon as they could and expedite the en-
tire process, which we hope would
begin to ease the burden of our current
debilitating immigration court back-
log.
I believe that if we actually did this,
people with legitimate claims would
find their claims recognized earlier,
and people with illegitimate claims
would be returned to their country of
origin, which is the way our laws
should be enforced.
It is important to recognize that we
should not only enforce our immigra-
tion laws; as long as they are on the
books, we ought to use the time-hon-
ored principle of deterrence. In other
words, if people realize they are paying
good money to try to make their way
into the United States in the hands of
a human smuggler but because of the
way we have corrected and reformed
our laws, it is no longer possible to ex-
ploit the vulnerabilities of the system,
fewer and fewer of them will actually
start that trek—that dangerous trek
from their home in Central America.
So deterrence is something we need
to use on our side, and right now there
is no deterrence because the smugglers
know this is a money-making machine
for them. They care nothing about the
people involved. They are commodity
agnostic. They will just as soon traffic
someone for sex as they will move a
migrant from Central America for eco-
nomic reasons or move drugs from
across the border into the United
States. We need to deter all sorts of
criminal activity like that.
In addition to these changes, the leg-
islation also includes other provisions
that I think are just commonsense im-
provements, like additional Customs
and Border Protection personnel and
training for CBP and ICE employees
who work with children.
There is one last point on what is
happening at the border and its impact
on the economy and trade. In Laredo,
TX alone—I think it just surpassed Los
Angeles as the largest port of entry
into the United States—there are be-
tween 14,000 and 16,000 trucks a day
that traverse the U.S.-Mexico border
between Nuevo Laredo and Laredo. A
lot of that is a part of the manufac-
turing process, which happens on both
sides of the border. But when these
trucks can’t make their way across the
border on a timely basis, then that
means the parts or the manufacturing
processes fall apart—and the border
economies.
I would argue the larger economy in
the United States is threatened when
just-in-time inventory control no
longer works. If you are living in De-
troit, MI, and you are expecting that
the delivery of a part coming from
Mexico will make its way to Michigan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.016 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3231
June 5, 2019
in time to build a car, you can’t do it.
Eventually, this is going to damage our
economy and kill jobs.
So I would like to reiterate, in con-
clusion, that the HUMANE Act is bi-
partisan; it is bicameral; and it would
provide real relief for folks in Texas
and other border states who are strug-
gling to manage the crisis. Most impor-
tantly, it would be a much more hu-
mane way to treat these children and
families who are flooding across our
southern border.
I know most of our congressional
Democratic friends have adopted the
posture of reflexively standing against
the President on anything and every-
thing he asks for rather than standing
for policies that would actually become
the law and make the situation better.
I think this is a much better solution
than tariffs on Mexican goods brought
into the United States.
The President’s team is negotiating
the United States-Mexico-Canada
Agreement, the USMCA, and I am
hopeful we can get that passed here in
the Congress once it is sent over from
the administration. But I worry that
not only are these tariffs that are po-
tentially being placed on goods brought
in the United States going to hurt our
booming economy and jobs here, they
also are going to jeopardize the passage
of the USMCA—the successor to
NAFTA, which I think we should all
acknowledge is a big, positive develop-
ment for the administration. Why
would we jeopardize the passage of the
USMCA? Why would we hurt our econ-
omy while trying to punish Mexico for
not doing more—which they should do
to stop the illegal passage of people
across their country when there is a
reasonable and responsible alternative.
I urge all of my colleagues to take a
serious look at the HUMANE Act so we
can finally do our part, which only we
in Congress can do to stem the flow of
Central American migrants who are
flooding our borders and to prevent
criminals and human smugglers from
infiltrating our country as they are
doing now.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
DETER ACT
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I want
to thank my colleagues for supporting
the Defending Elections against Trolls
from Enemy Regimes Act, aka the
DETER Act, a bipartisan piece of legis-
lation I introduced with the chairman
of the Judiciary Committee, Senator
LINDSEY GRAHAM, Senator
BLUMENTHAL, and Senator GRASSLEY.
This legislation would prevent for-
eign regimes from exploiting U.S. im-
migration laws to undermine U.S. elec-
tions. Specifically, it would make ‘‘im-
proper interference in U.S. elections’’ a
violation of immigration law.
Given the ongoing threat to the
United States in terms of the integrity
of our electoral process from Russian
interference, we need to ensure that we
are denying—and, if necessary, revok-
ing—any visas to foreign nationals who
seek to improperly interfere in our
elections.
One of the most important
takeaways from the Mueller report is
that Russia successfully attacked
America in 2016 by doing everything it
could to undermine our election proc-
ess.
Page 1 of the Mueller report says:
‘‘The Russian government interfered in
the 2016 presidential election in sweep-
ing and systematic fashion.’’
The report detailed numerous exam-
ples of Russian interference, including
an ‘‘intelligence-gathering mission’’
that employees of the Internet Re-
search Agency—also known as the
IRA—took in June of 2014. The IRA was
the Russian troll farm that waged in-
formation warfare against the 2016
election with stolen identities, fake so-
cial media accounts, fake campaign
events, and even attacking the voter
list for the State of Illinois.
The report and the earlier indictment
of several IRA employees noted that
two of the Russians arrived in the
United States for a 3-week trip ‘‘for the
purpose of collecting intelligence to in-
form [IRA’s] operations.’’
The DETER Act would respond to
threats like this, barring foreign actors
from traveling to our country to inter-
fere in our elections. I thank my col-
leagues for supporting this important
legislation which was approved on
Monday night. I hope the U.S. House of
Representatives will quickly pass it
and send it to the President’s desk for
his signature.
This should be the first of many steps
Congress takes to deter and punish fu-
ture election interference by the Rus-
sians or by any foreign power.
IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT
Mr. President, as a Presidential can-
didate, Donald Trump campaigned on a
promise to the American people that
he would ‘‘get tough’’ on immigrants
and secure our border. We heard it loud
and clear, didn’t we. The wall was to be
built by the Mexicans, accusing Mexi-
cans coming into this country of being
murderers and rapists. We heard it over
and over and over again.
Now, more than 2 years into the
Trump administration, it is clear that
the President has failed in his efforts
on immigration—especially when it
comes to families and children. It is
obvious our southern border today is
much less secure than it was when
Donald Trump took office.
Take a look at these numbers. They
tell the story, a dramatic story. In fis-
cal year 2017, which was the end of the
Obama administration and the begin-
ning of the Trump administration, in
12 months, 303,000 people were appre-
hended at our border, including 75,000
families and 41,000 unaccompanied chil-
dren. Now, 2 years later, the numbers
are dramatically higher under Presi-
dent Trump’s watch. Only 6 months
into this fiscal year 2019, 361,000 people
have already been apprehended at the
border. It was 303,000 over a 12-month
period 2 years ago, when the President
took office; now, 361,000 in 6 months,
including 189,000 families and 36,000 un-
accompanied children. That is more
total apprehensions in the first half of
this year, in the first 6 months, than
all 12 months of 2017.
The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity has been engulfed in Trumpian
chaos. In less than 21⁄2 years of the
Trump administration, there have al-
ready been four heads of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security—four—in
21⁄2 years: Secretary John Kelly, Acting
Secretary Elaine Duke, Secretary
Kirstjen Nielsen, and now Acting Sec-
retary Kevin McAleenan. Within the
Department of Homeland Security,
there have already been, under this ad-
ministration, in a little over 2 years,
four Acting Directors of Immigration
and Customs Enforcement and three
nominees to head this agency.
Under President Trump, ICE has
never had a Director confirmed by this
Republican-controlled Senate, which
spends all of its time approving nomi-
nees. The Trump administration has
never had a Director of ICE confirmed
because the proposed nominees’ names
keep changing. In fact, every major po-
sition at the Department of Homeland
Security is now held by a temporary
appointee not confirmed by the Sen-
ate—not confirmed by the Republican-
controlled Senate.
A major front in President Trump’s
war on immigrants has been his attack
on Dreamers. Dreamers are young im-
migrants who came to the United
States as infants, toddlers, and chil-
dren. They have gone to school with
our kids. They have given back to their
communities as teachers, nurses, engi-
neers, and even soldiers. They are
American in every way except for their
official immigration status.
In 2010, I joined with the late Repub-
lican Senator Dick Lugar of Indiana,
on a bipartisan basis, calling on Presi-
dent Obama to use his legal authority
to try to protect these Dreamers from
deportation. President Obama re-
sponded by creating the Deferred Ac-
tion for Childhood Arrivals Program,
known as DACA.
DACA provided a temporary 2-year
legal status to Dreamers if they
stepped forward, paid a filing fee, went
through a criminal background check,
registered with the government, and
had nothing in their background that
would disqualify them from staying in
the United States.
More than 800,000 of these young peo-
ple came forward. They received DACA
protection. DACA has really given
them their first chance, on a 2-year re-
newable basis, to not be afraid of de-
portation and to be able to legally
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.017 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3232 June 5, 2019
work and go to school in the United
States. They used that opportunity
well. They became soldiers of the
United States, engineers, teachers,
small business owners, and medical
professionals, but on September 5, 2017,
President Donald Trump repealed this
program. Hundreds of thousands of
Dreamers faced losing their work per-
mits and being deported to countries
they barely knew.
President Trump also terminated the
temporary protected status program—
known as TPS—for more than 300,000
immigrants. TPS allows nationals of
another country who were in the
United States to stay here legally if it
is too dangerous to return to their
country. The termination of this pro-
gram by President Trump jeopardizes
the safety of these immigrants, and
many of them with American children,
who number in the thousands.
When he announced the repeal of
DACA, President Trump called on Con-
gress to ‘‘legalize DACA,’’ but then he
turned around and rejected numerous
bipartisan proposals to protect the
Dreamers.
Last year, I worked with Senator
LINDSEY GRAHAM, the Republican
chairman of the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee, to craft a bipartisan agreement
that included the Dream Act and path
to citizenship for TPS holders. How-
ever, President Trump profanely re-
jected my legislation in a tense meet-
ing in the Oval Office.
Instead, the President tried to put
the entire hard-line immigration agen-
da on the backs of the Dreamers. He
said he would only support legalization
for these young people if Congress
passed his plan—his complete plan—
which would, among other things, slash
legal immigration by more than 40 per-
cent.
There is a lot of debate in this coun-
try about immigration, for sure, but we
usually agree on a couple basics: First,
we are a nation of immigrants. Second,
many immigrants come to this country
and work extremely hard for their fam-
ilies, for their future, creating busi-
nesses and opportunities at great per-
sonal sacrifice. The notion by some
that we would cut back on legal immi-
gration to this country at a time when
we desperately need increases in our
workforce is so shortsighted.
This plan to slash legal immigration
by more than 40 percent by President
Trump was rejected by the bipartisan
Senate. It would have been the largest
cut in legal immigration in almost a
century. The President would have
taken our Nation back to one of the
darkest chapters, when we were closing
immigration to certain groups across
the board, discriminating against them
in terms that are largely unacceptable
to America today. Thank goodness, the
Senate rejected this plan by a bipar-
tisan supermajority.
Yesterday was quite a day here on
Capitol Hill. The legislative achieve-
ment of the U.S. Senate yesterday: a
unanimous consent request to strike a
coin to commemorate women’s suf-
frage. I was happy to support that, but
that is what we did yesterday.
What happened across the Rotunda in
the House of Representatives? Yester-
day the House of Representatives re-
sponded to President Trump’s cruel de-
cision on DACA and TPS. The House
passed the American Dream and Prom-
ise Act on a bipartisan vote of 237 to
187.
I went over to stand on the floor of
the House, where I served for a number
of years, just to hear the debate and to
thank my colleagues for their leader-
ship. I want to call out especially the
statements that were made and the
support given by Speaker NANCY
PELOSI, Majority Leader STENY HOYER,
Judiciary Committee Chairman JERRY
NADLER, Immigration Subcommittee
Chair ZOE LOFGREN, and the lead spon-
sors of the bill Congresswoman LUCILLE
ROYBAL-ALLARD, Congresswoman
NYDIA VELÁZQUEZ, Congresswoman
YVETTE CLARKE, and my friend and fel-
low Illinoisan Congressman CHUY
GARCÍA.
This vote was especially important
to me because this legislation that
they passed yesterday in the House of
Representatives includes the Dream
Act. It was 19 years ago that I intro-
duced the first DREAM Act, bipartisan
legislation that would give Dreamers a
chance to earn their way to legal sta-
tus and citizenship.
Now the eyes of hundreds of thou-
sands of Dreamers have moved across
the Capitol and are focused on the Sen-
ate. They are counting on us to solve
the DACA crisis that President Trump
has created. Will Majority Leader Sen-
ator MCCONNELL of Kentucky give
them a chance? I certainly hope so.
The Senate should send the American
Dream and Promise Act to the Presi-
dent’s desk for his signature.
The Senate also has a responsibility
to address the humanitarian crisis at
our southern border, a crisis which this
administration has made much, much
worse.
When this President threatens to
shut down the border, which he has on
many occasions, it is like a neon sign
to the smugglers to use this threat to
encourage more desperate families to
flee toward our border.
When the President says he is going
to block all assistance to the Northern
Triangle countries of El Salvador, Gua-
temala, and Honduras and shut down
any avenues for legal migration, he
just guarantees that more refugees in
desperation will head to our borders.
Earlier this year, the President
forced the longest government shut-
down in the history of the United
States, 35 days—35 days, when men and
women who serve in our government in
important jobs like air traffic control
at our airports were denied their pay.
Why would the President do this to
these men and women and to others,
thousands of others, in our Federal
workforce? It was his desperate pursuit
of his beloved border wall so he could
fulfill a campaign promise that he told
us over and over and over again would
be paid for by Mexico.
The Trump government shutdown
paralyzed our immigration courts. For
35 days, they saw their backlogs in-
crease. The backlog has already grown
by close to 300,000 cases pending before
those courts in the last two years.
These courts play a critical role in
processing cases of immigrants seeking
asylum at our border.
Within the last week, the President
has said he will impose tariffs on all
goods coming into the United States
from Mexico, which will raise prices on
American consumers, kill jobs in
America, and once again put the bur-
den—the political burden—on farmers
in the United States, including in Illi-
nois.
The administration and its Repub-
lican allies in Congress argue that crit-
ical humanitarian protections for fami-
lies and children are the real problem
here. They claim with a straight face
that we can better protect these mi-
grants by making it easier to detain
them indefinitely and deport them
without any due process. But if people
were migrating to the United States
because of the so-called legal loop-
holes, which the administration keeps
talking about, they would be coming
from all over the region. They are not.
The vast majority of families and chil-
dren are not coming from Mexico but
from the three countries in the North-
ern Triangle, as I mentioned earlier.
In April, I visited the port of entry in
El Paso, TX, and a nearby Border Pa-
trol station. What I saw in those over-
crowded facilities was heartbreaking.
There are detention cells where these
migrants are being held. Over the door
of one of these cells, which has a win-
dow that you can look into, it says:
‘‘Capacity: 35.’’ I counted close to 150
men standing shoulder to shoulder in
that detention cell. They are served
their meals, and they eat them stand-
ing up. There is room for maybe 20 or
30 to sit on benches. The rest stand all
day and take turns at night lying on
the floor. There is not room for them.
I have since been told that this cell has
increased its numbers from 150 to 200.
Next door to that cell was a sign out-
side of the door that read ‘‘Capacity:
16.’’ Inside that cell, I counted about 75
women, including nursing mothers
with their babies. I have been told that
this number has since dramatically in-
creased as well.
How long will they be in these cells?
I am told anywhere from 3 days to 6
weeks. As I said, one of the women
cells had a capacity of 16. I looked in
there, and it was painful to catch the
eyes of those who are being held there,
and they mouthed the word ‘‘Help.’’
It has reached a point where over 20
Senators have joined me in writing to
the International Red Cross, which in-
spects prison facilities around the
world. We asked them to inspect our
detention facilities on America’s bor-
der. It was a sad day to make the re-
quest, but it had to be made.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.019 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3233
June 5, 2019
I also asked the DHS Acting Inspec-
tor General to investigate these Border
Patrol facilities. Last week, the In-
spector General’s Office at DHS re-
leased a report detailing the inhumane
and dangerous overflow of migrants at
the El Paso port of entry. The Inspec-
tor General’s Office found that over-
crowding was ‘‘an immediate risk to
the health and safety of detainees and
DHS employees.’’
While we fail to even debate this
issue here in Washington, we cannot
overlook the inhumane conduct that is
occurring at the border. We are better
than that.
This notion of zero tolerance, where
we separated 2,880 infants and toddlers
from their parents, some of whom it
took months to bring back together—
to me, that does not speak well of who
we are as a nation.
Look at this picture that was taken
by the IG at one of the cells. Their
faces are blanked out, but it gives an
idea of the mass of humanity I count-
ed—the IG found 76 women were in a
cell for 12 people.
The Inspector General’s report said
that the Department of Homeland Se-
curity has been aware of the situation
in El Paso for months but has not iden-
tified a process to alleviate over-
crowding. Meanwhile, weeks ago,
months ago, Congress passed an emer-
gency appropriation of hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars for humanitarian care
of these people at the border. It isn’t as
if we haven’t given the administration
resources to deal with at least the im-
mediate crisis on their hands. The IG
report said that DHS has been aware of
this situation for months, but they
haven’t taken measures to deal with it.
This report called on them to take im-
mediate steps.
The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity gave a target completion date of
November 30, 2020—a year and a half
from now—for the completion of a cen-
tralized processing center in El Paso.
The Inspector General found this re-
sponse completely inadequate, and so
do I.
Democrats are serious about address-
ing this situation. There are some bot-
tom-line standards that I think we all
should look to.
First, we need border security, there
is no doubt in my mind. In an age of
terrorism, with the worst drug epi-
demic in the history of the United
States, I want to know who is crossing
our border and what they are bringing.
Every American should want to know.
Secondly, there is no excuse for al-
lowing a dangerous person to come into
this country. If we know they are dan-
gerous, they are not welcome. And if
they are here in any questionable sta-
tus and a danger to America, they have
to go.
Third—and it pains me to say this as
the son of an immigrant woman, but it
is a fact—we cannot absorb all of the
people in the world who want to come
to the United States. It is not economi-
cally or even physically possible for
that to happen. We have to have stand-
ards when it comes to immigration.
Once we have established those three
standards, shouldn’t we come together,
Democrats and Republicans, and re-
write our immigration laws, this bro-
ken system that has led to this point?
It will not be solved by threats of
walls, by threats of closing the borders,
by threats of cutting off foreign aid.
That makes the situation even worse,
and, sadly, President Trump has prov-
en that point in the 2-plus years he has
been in office.
I am serious about addressing this,
deadly serious about what it means to
Dreamers and people here in temporary
protected status. In February, after the
President finally ended his government
shutdown, I helped write an omnibus
appropriations bill. We put $564 million
in the bill for inspection equipment so
we could scan and x ray every car and
truck coming into the United States
and grab the narcotics at the border
before they make it to my hometown
and yours. I hope we all agree on that.
There was $414 million in that bill for
humanitarian assistance. I can’t tell
you how that is being spent.
We could do more to make sure that
even in the midst of political con-
troversy, our border is secure and our
treatment of these desperate people is
humane and that we will be able to an-
swer to history for how we are con-
ducting ourselves.
Democrats have introduced the Cen-
tral America Reform and Enhancement
Act as a comprehensive response to
this problem.
We need to address the root causes in
the Northern Triangle countries that
are driving these migrants here.
We need to crack down on the cartels
and traffickers who are exploiting
these migrants.
We need to provide for in-country
processing, which the Obama adminis-
tration provided for and the Trump ad-
ministration eliminated. What it
meant was that residents in those
three countries did not have to make a
dangerous and expensive trip across
Mexico to our border to find out if they
were eligible for asylum; they could do
it in their home country. The Obama
administration had that program. The
Trump administration eliminated it,
and people started making that trip
across Mexico to test whether they
were legally eligible to stay in this
country.
In that Democratic bill, we eliminate
immigration court backlogs so that
asylum claims could be processed more
quickly.
We stand ready to work on smart, ef-
fective, and humane border security
policies. But the President needs to be
part of the solution. If this is about his
reelection, appealing to his base, and
being tougher and tougher, I could tell
him: It is not working, Mr. President.
It is not working for the good of this
country. Perhaps your political base
finds it appealing, but I think the
American people are now looking for
solutions. They want us to work on a
bipartisan basis. We have a chance and
an opportunity.
The House of Representatives’ action
yesterday, I hope, is the beginning of a
meaningful dialogue to deal with this
crisis.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). The Senator from South Dakota.
ECONOMIC GROWTH
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, our econ-
omy has made tremendous strides over
the past 2 years. Americans on the
whole have access to more jobs, higher
wages, and more opportunities. Unfor-
tunately, our Nation’s agricultural
economy is trailing behind the broader
economy.
A combination of low commodity
prices, protracted trade disputes, and
natural disasters and weather-related
issues have left many farmers and
ranchers struggling. Nationwide, net
farm income is about half of what it
was in 2013—half.
In my home State of South Dakota,
farmers and ranchers are currently fac-
ing the fallout from severe winter
storms, heavy rainfall, bomb cyclones,
and spring flooding. Less than half of
this year’s acreage intended for corn
has been planted. Compare that to this
time last year, when 96 percent of our
State’s corn was in the ground and
growing. Today, just 14 percent of
South Dakota’s soybeans have been
planted, compared to 83 percent this
time last year. To make matters worse,
for many farmers, this year’s planting
season is already over, as their land is
completely flooded and will not dry out
in time for anything to be planted.
Other States that produce the bulk of
our country’s corn and soybeans are
facing similar planting challenges.
There have been some recent wins for
farmers and ranchers. The administra-
tion’s announcement that it is lifting
the ban on the year-round sale of E15—
15 percent ethanol-blended fuel—is
great news for corn producers in South
Dakota and around the Nation. It is a
big win for consumers, too, who will
have access to this cleaner, lower cost
fuel during the summer driving season
for the first time. I have spent nearly
my entire time in the Senate advo-
cating for higher blends of ethanol, and
I am pleased the Trump administration
has followed through on its commit-
ment to address this issue.
Another recent win was Japan’s an-
nouncement that it was lifting age lim-
its on U.S. beef imports, giving Amer-
ica’s ranchers full access to the Japa-
nese market. CNBC reports that the
U.S. Meat Export Federation predicts
that Japan’s move could increase U.S.
beef sales to Japan by $150 million to
$200 million per year.
While these victories are important,
there is a lot more work to be done to
get our Nation’s farmers and ranchers
back on their feet. I hear regularly
from South Dakota ag producers about
the challenges they are facing, and I
constantly share their concerns with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.021 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3234 June 5, 2019
the administration, whether I am
meeting with the President or other of-
ficials.
One of the biggest things we can do
for our Nation’s farmers and ranchers
is secure trade deals that will open new
markets for American agricultural
products.
I support the President’s efforts to
secure more favorable treatment for
American products and his determina-
tion to ensure that China honors the
trade commitments it has made, but I
believe we need to wrap up negotia-
tions on these various agreements we
are discussing as quickly as possible.
Along with increased market access,
farmers and ranchers need certainty
about what international markets are
going to look like.
I am committed to doing everything
I can to advance trade agreements with
Japan and with the European Union. I
am also doing everything I can to move
the United States-Mexico-Canada free-
trade agreement through Congress in
the near future. This agreement would
benefit American agriculture, create
jobs, and grow our economy, and we
should pass it as soon as possible. We
should be wary of any action that
might jeopardize this trade agreement
and the markets it will open for our
producers.
Another issue of concern to farmers
and ranchers is the implementation of
the 2018 farm bill. Getting a pro-agri-
culture, pro-farmer bill to the Presi-
dent was one of my top priorities last
year, and I am proud of the bill we de-
livered.
I took ideas and suggestions from
South Dakota farmers and ranchers
and developed more than 40 proposals
aimed at making life better for Amer-
ican agricultural producers. Nearly 20
of my proposals were included in the
final bill, including my new short-
term, soil-building conservation pro-
gram for farmers who don’t want to tie
up ground for 10 years or more in the
Conservation Reserve Program.
Now that the farm bill is law, we
have to make sure that it is imple-
mented in a timely manner and as Con-
gress intended. I have spent years
pushing for an increase in the Con-
servation Reserve Program’s acreage
cap, and we finally got a substantial
increase in last year’s bill.
The Department of Agriculture needs
to expedite both general and continual
CRP signups to allow farmers to take
full advantage of that cap increase. I
have been strongly urging the Depart-
ment to make sure that farmers can
sign up in a timely manner. Taking
millions of acres of environmentally
sensitive land out of crop production in
the next year could have a big impact
on the farm economy by driving up
commodity prices and increasing farm-
ers’ profits, but in order for this to
happen, we need to make sure that
farmers can get their least productive
land enrolled in the CRP program and
out of crop production by next year.
South Dakota farmers and ranchers
are the lifeblood of our State, and I am
committed to doing everything I can to
address their needs here in Wash-
ington. In addition to working on trade
issues and farm bill implementation, I
am working with the Department of
Agriculture’s Risk Management Agen-
cy to ensure that our farmers are
treated fairly under crop insurance pre-
vent plant and cover crop rules.
I have been working with the Agri-
culture Department to make certain
the recently announced second round
of Market Facilitation Program pay-
ments do not affect this year’s planting
decisions. I have also requested that
this second round of MFP payments
provide equitable assistance to all pro-
ducers, especially those with failed and
damaged crops or who were prevented
from planting this year’s crops due to
adverse weather.
And, as I said, I will continue to push
for trade agreements with China and
other countries so that our Nation’s
farmers receive a check from the sale
of their products overseas instead of
from the Department of Agriculture.
I also recently led a letter to the
President in support of Governor
Noem’s request for a major disaster
declaration in South Dakota, and 2
weeks ago I voted in favor of the Addi-
tional Supplemental Appropriations
Act, which would provide additional
disaster funding for States and Terri-
tories harmed by last year’s hurricanes
and wildfires and this year’s flooding.
The bill also includes $3 billion to pro-
vide assistance for farmers’ crop losses
from the 2018 and 2019 natural disas-
ters.
Our Nation’s farmers and ranchers
have a tough, backbreaking job. In-
stead of air-conditioned and heated of-
fices, they labor in the hot Sun, the
cold rain, and the snow. They start
their days before the Sun rises and
often end them long after the Sun falls.
Most Americans never think about the
blood, sweat, and tears that have gone
into that loaf of bread or that gallon of
milk that they grab off the grocery
store shelf, but we are all the bene-
ficiaries of the hard work and the dedi-
cation of our Nation’s farmers and
ranchers. It is an honor to represent so
many of these hard-working people
here in the Senate.
To South Dakota’s farmers and
ranchers, I want to say I hear you. I
know that things have been incredibly
tough for you all over the past few
years. I know that you are fighting
through a lot of challenges, and I am
committed to making sure that Wash-
ington addresses your priorities, and I
will do everything that I can to make
sure that you have access to the sup-
port and the resources you need to con-
tinue feeding our Nation and the world.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
GUN VIOLENCE AWARENESS MONTH
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, this
weekend another community was torn
apart by gun violence. Once again, poli-
ticians do what so many politicians in
this body do. They offer thoughts and
prayers to the people of Virginia
Beach, and then they move on. It is
tragic, and it is obscene how routine
this has become in our country and
how routine that reaction from far too
many politicians—from the White
House on down—has become.
This month we mark Gun Violence
Awareness Month, but in our country
every month, every week, and every
day we endure senseless gun violence.
Congress has ignored for too long the
millions of Americans who want rea-
sonable gun safety measures instead of
doing the bidding of the gun lobby.
We cannot say we are doing what it
takes to keep our country safe until we
are finally willing to pass common-
sense laws to protect all Americans
from gun violence. Many of us have
tried.
I supported the original Federal as-
sault weapons ban in 1994. I joined with
many of my colleagues to vote to
renew it after Sandy Hook. Weapons of
war and assault weapons do not belong
on our streets.
We have tried to pass legislation to
close loopholes in our background
check system so that people who buy
guns on the internet or at gun shows
have to go through the same back-
ground checks as law-abiding gun own-
ers who buy their guns at stores in
Ohio.
After the tragedy at the Pulse night-
club in Orlando, we tried to pass legis-
lation to prevent people on the ter-
rorist watch list from buying guns. If
you are too dangerous to get on an air-
plane—if the government says you
can’t ride in the plane because you are
on the terrorist watch list—it should
be too dangerous for you to buy a dead-
ly weapon. But this body is so, so in
the pocket of the NRA that they will
not even pass legislation like that. The
gun lobby, again, stood in the way. We
know what happened each and every
time. They stood in the way, despite
the fact that the laws we are talking
about would not undermine the rights
of law-abiding gun owners.
I respect the rights of hunters, of col-
lectors, and of responsible law-abiding
gun owners. No one is trying to take
away their guns. When our students
aren’t safe in our schools, it is clear
that something has to be done. When
workers aren’t safe on the job, it is
clear that we have to do something.
When too many Americans don’t feel
safe going about their daily lives in
their communities, we can’t sit here
and do nothing.
We will not give up on making our
country safer. We will keep working
until we get weapons of war out of our
schools, out of our workplaces, out of
our neighborhoods, and out of our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.022 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3235
June 5, 2019
places of worship. Creating change in
our country isn’t easy. It requires
going up against powerful special inter-
ests. Few are as powerful as the NRA.
Change never starts in Washington. We
make progress because of grassroots
movements of Americans all across our
country demanding action. From
Marches for Our Lives to the Women’s
March, to the activism around the Af-
fordable Care Act, Americans proved
again and again and again the power of
activism. Mothers and fathers, stu-
dents and teachers all across this coun-
try who stood up and marched for gun
safety are the people we sent here to
serve, not the special interest gun
lobby.
I hope my colleagues will not so eas-
ily forget what happened in Virginia
Beach and at the Poway synagogue and
in Pittsburgh and in Parkland and in
Orlando and at the Capital Gazette in
Annapolis and in Las Vegas and in
Sandy Hook and in our neighborhoods
around this country every month,
every week, and every day.
NOMINATION OF SUSAN COMBS
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
have come to the floor to speak in
strong support of the nomination of
Ms. Susan Combs, of Texas, to be As-
sistant Secretary for Policy, Manage-
ment, and Budget at the Department of
the Interior.
This is one of five Assistant Sec-
retary positions at Interior, and, as the
title suggests, it is critical to the De-
partment’s ability to function. The in-
dividual who holds this position is re-
sponsible for overseeing everything
from the annual budget request to fi-
nancial management, procurement,
and policy and program analysis.
The President’s nominee, Susan
Combs, is very well qualified. She has
previously served as a State represent-
ative, as agriculture commissioner, and
as comptroller in her home State of
Texas. Over the years, Ms. Combs has
worked extensively with the Depart-
ment of the Interior, including the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service, which has
helped her gain substantive expertise
about a range of issues that she will
face in her new role.
My only wish is that we could have
confirmed Ms. Combs long ago. Instead,
due to holds and delays here on the
Senate floor, she ultimately had to be
reported from the Energy and Natural
Resources committee on three separate
occasions—in 2017, in 2018, and again
this year. She is not controversial.
Each time, we reported her with bipar-
tisan support. But she has now been
forced to wait for a total of nearly 700
days for confirmation, meaning she
will have held up for longer than she
will be able to serve, at least in the
current term.
I appreciate Ms. Combs’ willingness
to serve our country. I appreciate her
patience over the course of nearly 2 full
years, which is testament to just how
broken the nominations process had
become, and her commitment to see
this through. I also thank Leader
MCCONNELL for scheduling this vote
and encourage every Member of this
Chamber to vote in favor of confirma-
tion.
Mr. BROWN. I suggest the absence of
a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Combs nomination?
Mr. BROWN. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea’’ and the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND), the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote or to
change their vote?
The result was announced—yeas 57,
nays 36, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 141 Ex.]
YEAS—57
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—36
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
Klobuchar
Leahy
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Alexander
Booker
Gillibrand
Markey
Moran
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
The Senator from Louisiana.
Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the remaining
votes in this series be 10 minutes in
length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Ryan T. Holte, of Ohio, to be a
Judge of the United States Court of Federal
Claims for a term of fifteen years.
Mitch McConnell, Roy Blunt, Joni Ernst,
Steve Daines, Roger F. Wicker, John
Thune, Roy Blunt, Thom Tillis, John
Kennedy, John Boozman, Pat Roberts,
Mike Rounds, John Cornyn, Richard
Burr, John Barrasso, Lindsey Graham,
Rick Scott.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Ryan T. Holte, of Ohio, to be a Judge
of the United States Court of Federal
Claims for a term of fifteen years, shall
be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea’’ and the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND), the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 60,
nays 33, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.024 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3236 June 5, 2019
[Rollcall Vote No. 142 Ex.]
YEAS—60
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Capito
Carper
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—33
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Cantwell
Cardin
Casey
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Feinstein
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
Klobuchar
Leahy
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Alexander
Booker
Gillibrand
Markey
Moran
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 60, the nays are 33.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Rossie David Alston, Jr., of Vir-
ginia, to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Virginia.
Mitch McConnell, Pat Roberts, Steve
Daines, John Barrasso, Tim Scott,
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Roger
F. Wicker, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Richard
Burr, Mike Crapo, David Perdue, John
Thune, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott, Mike
Rounds, John Cornyn.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Rossie David Alston, Jr., of Virginia,
to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Virginia, shall
be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea’’ and the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND), the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 74,
nays 19, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 143 Ex.]
YEAS—74
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—19
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Harris
Heinrich
Hirono
Klobuchar
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Udall
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Alexander
Booker
Gillibrand
Markey
Moran
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). On this vote, the yeas are 74, the
nays are 19.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislature clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Richard A. Hertling, of Maryland,
to be a Judge of the United States Court of
Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years.
Mitch McConnell, Pat Roberts, Steve
Daines, John Barrasso, Tim Scott,
Lindsey Graham, John Boozman, Roger
F. Wicker, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Richard
Burr, Mike Crapo, David Perdue, John
Thune, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott, Mike
Rounds, John Cornyn.
The PRESIDING OFFICER: By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Richard A. Hertling, of Maryland, to
be a Judge of the United States Court
of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen
years, shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. INHOFE),
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN),
the Senator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO),
and the Senator from Pennsylvania
(Mr. TOOMEY).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea’’, the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN)
would have voted ‘‘yea’’, and the Sen-
ator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO) would
have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Massachusetts (Mr. MARKEY), the
Senator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS),
and the Senator from Massachusetts
(Ms. WARREN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 66,
nays 23, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 144 Ex.]
YEAS—66
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—23
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Casey
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Harris
Hassan
Hirono
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Udall
Van Hollen
Wyden
NOT VOTING—11
Alexander
Booker
Gillibrand
Inhofe
Klobuchar
Markey
Moran
Rubio
Sanders
Toomey
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 66, the nays are 23.
The motion is agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:51 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.014 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3237
June 5, 2019
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Richard A. Hertling, of Mary-
land, to be a Judge of the United
States Court of Federal Claims for a
term of fifteen years.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that notwithstanding rule
XXII, it be in order to proceed to file
cloture on executive nominations dur-
ing today’s session of the Senate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 41.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant bill clerk read
the nomination of Sarah Daggett Mor-
rison, of Ohio, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Southern District of
Ohio.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Sarah Daggett Morrison, of Ohio,
to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Ohio.
Mitch McConnell, Roy Blunt, Joni Ernst,
Steve Daines, Roger F. Wicker, John
Thune, Tom Cotton, Thom Tillis, John
Kennedy, John Boozman, Pat Roberts,
Mike Rounds, John Cornyn, Richard
Burr, John Barrasso, Lindsey Graham,
Johnny Isakson.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 42.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant bill clerk read
the nomination of Pamela A. Barker,
of Ohio, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of
Ohio.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Pamela A. Barker, of Ohio, to be
United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Ohio.
Mitch McConnell, Roy Blunt, Joni Ernst,
Steve Daines, Roger F. Wicker, John
Thune, Tom Cotton, Thom Tillis, John
Kennedy, John Boozman, Pat Roberts,
Mike Rounds, John Cornyn, Richard
Burr, John Barrasso, Lindsey Graham,
Johnny Isakson.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 43.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant bill clerk read
the nomination of Corey Landon Maze,
of Alabama, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Northern District of
Alabama.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Corey Landon Maze, of Alabama, to
be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Alabama.
Mitch McConnell, Tom Cotton, Steve
Daines, David Perdue, Roger F. Wicker,
John Hoeven, Pat Roberts, Jerry
Moran, Johnny Isakson, John
Boozman, James E. Risch, Mike
Rounds, John Cornyn, Thom Tillis,
Lindsey Graham, John Thune, Mike
Crapo.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 44.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant bill clerk read
the nomination of Rodney Smith, of
Florida, to be United States District
Judge for the Southern District of
Florida.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Rodney Smith, of Florida, to be
United States District Judge for the South-
ern District of Florida.
Mitch McConnell, Bill Cassidy, David
Perdue, John Thune, Roy Blunt, Thom
Tillis, Roger F. Wicker, Mike Braun,
Pat Roberts, Mike Rounds, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Johnny Isakson,
John Boozman, Marco Rubio, Kevin
Cramer, James E. Risch.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 46.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.039 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3238 June 5, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant bill clerk read
the nomination of Thomas P. Barber,
of Florida, to be United States District
Judge for the Middle District of Flor-
ida.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Thomas P. Barber, of Florida, to be
United States District Judge for the Middle
District of Florida.
Mitch McConnell, Bill Cassidy, David
Perdue, John Thune, Roy Blunt, Thom
Tillis, Roger F. Wicker, Johnny
Isakson, Mike Braun, Mike Rounds,
John Cornyn, Mike Crapo, John
Boozman, Marco Rubio, Kevin Cramer,
James E. Risch, Pat Roberts.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 49.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant bill clerk read
the nomination of Jean-Paul Boulee, of
Georgia, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of
Georgia.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Jean-Paul Boulee, of Georgia, to be
United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Georgia.
Mitch McConnell, John Barrasso, Mike
Rounds, Pat Roberts, Richard Burr,
John Cornyn, Johnny Isakson, Ben
Sasse, Thom Tillis, Cindy Hyde-Smith,
Michael B. Enzi, John Kennedy, Shel-
ley Moore Capito, John Boozman,
Steve Daines, Mike Crapo, Lindsey
Graham.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 193.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant bill clerk read
the nomination of David Stilwell, of
Hawaii, to be an Assistant Secretary of
State (East Asian and Pacific Affairs).
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of David Stilwell, of Hawaii, to be an
Assistant Secretary of State (East Asian and
Pacific Affairs).
Mitch McConnell, Thom Tillis, Mike
Crapo, John Hoeven, Johnny Isakson,
John Thune, Shelley Moore Capito,
John Boozman, Mike Rounds, Pat Rob-
erts, James E. Risch, Richard Burr,
John Barrasso, Roy Blunt, David
Perdue, John Cornyn, Tom Cotton.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 217.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant bill clerk read
the nomination of Edward F. Crawford,
of Ohio, to be Ambassador Extraor-
dinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to Ireland.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Edward F. Crawford, of Ohio, to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of America
to Ireland.
Mitch McConnell, David Perdue, John
Thune, Roy Blunt, Thom Tillis, Roger
F. Wicker, Marco Rubio, James E.
Risch, Bill Cassidy, Mike Rounds, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Johnny Isakson,
John Boozman, Kevin Cramer, Mike
Braun, Pat Roberts.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the man-
datory quorum calls for the cloture
motions be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
75TH ANNIVERSARY OF D-DAY
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I want to
talk a little bit about what we will be
talking about around the country and
around the world tomorrow. Tomorrow
is the 75th anniversary of D-Day. There
aren’t a lot of days known in history
around the world by just one letter, but
June 6, 1944, is known that way. It is
the greatest amphibious battlefield
landing ever and probably the single
greatest military operation in history.
It was done to liberate people in Eu-
rope from one of the most savage re-
gimes that ever existed.
At 15 minutes past midnight, 18,000
paratroopers began to step out of their
planes high above Normandy, France,
going in behind what would be the
landing the next day. Below them,
there were about 200,000 people stream-
ing toward the Continent on almost
7,000 ships, with about 1 million others
to follow after that landing was made
on D-Day.
A journalist who wrote about the
battle noted that by 4:30 that morning,
the Stars and Stripes flew for the first
time over a town liberated by Ameri-
cans in France in World War II.
So a lot happened from midnight to
4:30, but a lot more was going to hap-
pen that day. Americans led the oper-
ation, but there were also troops from
Britain, from Poland, from Norway,
from Canada, and even French troops
returning to help free their own coun-
try were there. They were told that
when you land in Normandy, you will
have only one friend: God. I am sure
there was lots of praying going on that
day.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.047 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3239
June 5, 2019
It became known in literature and on
film as ‘‘The Longest Day,’’ and it gave
the Allies the threshold they needed to
free the Continent from the crush of
the Third Reich. There was clearly
chaos—that many people doing that
many things in that many different
ways. There were missteps, and there
was bad luck, but in the end, there was
an unimaginable amount of courage
and sacrifice and just simple provi-
dence in what happened that day.
When one landing group was landed
in the wrong place, a place they
weren’t supposed to land, the com-
manding general, Theodore Roosevelt,
who was the son of the former Presi-
dent Theodore Roosevelt, told one of
his officers just to keep on bringing the
men ashore. He said: ‘‘We are going to
start the war from right here.’’ It is
not where they intended to be, but it is
where they were, and in their view and
General Roosevelt’s view that day,
where we are is where we are going to
start; there is no going back now. They
didn’t go back.
One of the men who joined the fight
that day—and there were millions who
would eventually—with hundreds of
thousands that day was Ralph
Goldsticker from the Marine Corps Re-
serve.
He had signed up for the Army Avia-
tion Cadet Corps right after Pearl Har-
bor. He said, when talking about this
later, that his parents were scared silly
when they found out he had signed up
immediately to become a flyer in what
would become World War II.
He flew 35 missions as a bombardier
flying in a B–17 Flying Fortress, in-
cluding two missions on D-Day. His
first mission that day was to help take
out the big German guns that guarded
the beach where British troops were
landing. He remembers the skies being
so thick with airplanes that he had to
fly from southern England all the way
back to Scotland just to get in line to
head to France.
Later that afternoon, he flew a sec-
ond mission to attack German rein-
forcements who were headed to the
beaches. Ralph was awarded the French
Legion of Honor medal in recognition
of his service.
You know, he was just one of thou-
sands of Missourians from the lowest
private to General Omar Bradley, who
was commanding the American troops
who were part of that mission, and
many of them would never return.
We just had a series of votes a little
earlier than we would normally have in
the week because 17 or so of our col-
leagues are going to be part of the D-
Day celebration on this 75th anniver-
sary. I had an opportunity myself to be
in Normandy a few years ago. We were
in Normandy at the Normandy Amer-
ican Cemetery, where there were 7,000
graves out in front of us.
On what was a private trip, not a
government trip, we were fortunate to
have a good guide who understood the
war and the cemetery. He took us
through the cemetery, and then he
took us over and sat us down on the
stone wall with the English Channel to
our backs and those 7,000 graves out in
front of us. As we sat there at that
spot, he flipped open his computer and
on his computer he had some video of
General Eisenhower and Walter
Cronkite sitting exactly on that same
spot on June 6, 1964, the 20th anniver-
sary of D-Day.
General Eisenhower, of course, gave
the orders in spite of weather and other
things, hoping it would work out as it
was supposed to. As for what happened
on D-Day and what happened later, he
said to Walter Cronkite something like
this: You know, Walter, my son John
graduated from West Point on D-Day.
Many times over the last 20 years I
thought about him and his wife and the
family they have and the opportunities
they have had, and I thought about
these young men—Eisenhower said,
looking at those graves—and I thought
about these young men and what they
didn’t get to do because of what they
were asked to do.
That, by the way, was the same com-
manding general who had that famous
note in his wallet that day, stating
that he would take full responsibility
for what happened if it didn’t go well.
That was the kind of leader he was.
I mentioned that there were 18,000
paratroopers. He was told that 70 per-
cent of those paratroopers would not
survive the day. There is a statue here
in the Rotunda of this building that is
based on a photo of Eisenhower the day
before D-Day, surrounded by those
young paratroopers. They were 18, 19,
and 20, and maybe even a few younger
than 18 surrounding him. They had
been told that he wouldn’t want to talk
to them, but when he got there, it was
obvious that he was there to see them.
That statue in the Rotunda shows Ei-
senhower making a gesture. Nobody
knew for years what that particular
hand gesture was, but it turns out that
he was talking to a young man from
Idaho, and he was talking about fly
fishing. So that gesture of Eisenhower
in this building, if you are in this
building looking at that statue, is Ei-
senhower the day before D-Day, talk-
ing to a young man about fly fishing.
Again, he had been told that 70 percent
of those paratroopers would not sur-
vive the day because of what he and
others were asking them to do.
The numbers weren’t that bad, but
they turned out to be plenty bad. The
Germans had released water in an area
behind Normandy in an unexpected
way. So many of those paratroopers
who expected to land on the ground in-
stead went into flooded lands and
drowned. Other things happened that
couldn’t have been planned for and
weren’t planned for, but they were
there to do that job.
The fighting that first day, D-Day,
paved the way for more men to come
ashore. It began the long push from
France into Germany and, for them,
into history. I think there will be
slightly more than a dozen D-Day sur-
vivors at that 75th anniversary. You
don’t have to do the math very long to
know that if you were in the military
on D-Day, you would be in your nine-
ties today, and they are going to be
there with our colleagues and others
celebrating what they did and what
they were willing to do.
One observer wrote on D-Day: There
never had been a dawn like this one—
700 ships, 200,000 people ready to land
and establish the beginning of the end
of World War II. So on D-Day, we re-
member again the sacrifice of those
thousands of soldiers, sailors, and air-
men. We honor their courage and devo-
tion to the cause of liberty. We serve
them by continuing to remain strong
and preparing to fight for freedom ev-
erywhere. That means doing all we can
for the men and women who defend us
today. It means we carry the legacy of
the generations that fought 75 years
ago on D-Day and every other war
where Americans fought and died.
They deserve our gratitude today and
every day. We need to continue to un-
derstand the importance of our alli-
ances and our willingness to stand for
freedom. D-Day is a great day and this
is a great, great week to be reminded of
that.
I yield back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I appre-
ciate the remembrances of D-Day from
Senator BLUNT, the distinguished sen-
ior Senator from Missouri.
It is always memorable attending D-
Day events. The first one I went to—
and you just spoke of the distinguished
Kansan, Dwight Eisenhower—was with
Robert Dole for the 40th anniversary.
President Reagan asked the two of us
to represent him in Italy when we first
landed, while President Reagan went to
Normandy. Subsequently, I went with
a delegation with President Clinton
and then with President George W.
Bush, and, lastly, with President
Obama. I found the experience over-
whelming each time.
Last year—it was actually on my
birthday—DICK SHELBY and I were
there and laid a wreath in Normandy.
Nobody can walk by there—first, see-
ing all the graves and realizing that
they are only some of the remains—and
then walking to the cliffs and looking
down, and not wonder how anybody
could have had the courage to face
such withering fire. For some who sur-
vived, it seemed like the enemy was
using a paint brush and just wiping
people out. You would see them falling
all around.
A well-respected doctor from our
home town in Montpelier had never
talked about it. On the 50th anniver-
sary we asked him if he would join us
there. He is not a wealthy man. He
treated a lot of the poor Italian immi-
grants for nothing. My mother was a
first generation Italian American, and
she always talked with him. She and
my father and others raised money for
him to go, and after that for the first
time he could talk about it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:51 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.055 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3240 June 5, 2019
He came back and talked about it. He
was a medic and a little guy. He went
off the boat with all of his gear and
just sank. He would have drowned, but
somebody pulled him up and brought
him to the shore. He turned to say
thank you, and the man who rescued
him was shot dead.
He refused to leave the beach. He just
treated one person after another, and
his story is not unusual. So many did
that. So I thank my friend from Mis-
souri for what he said.
CUBA SANCTIONS
Mr. President, there are foreign poli-
cies that are thoughtful, that reflect
lessons learned from history, and that
advance our national interests. Let me
talk about others.
I have been here for a lot of years. I
was fortunate to come here at the time
of President Ford and have known and
seen every President since. I have seen
some dumb policies by administrations
over the years, both by Republicans
and Democrats. I want to speak briefly
about one of them because it is not just
dumb. It is an embarrassment. It is
going to hurt a lot of Americans. It is
going to hurt a lot of good people in
Cuba, and there is no denying that.
I refer to the decision announced by
the Treasury Department yesterday to
severely restrict travel by Americans
to Cuba. Why? Because Cuba supports
Nicolas Maduro.
The administration has reinstituted
the failed policy of the Cold War re-
strictions on the right of every Amer-
ican citizen to travel to Cuba, even
though the overwhelming majority of
Americans, Republicans and Democrats
alike, opposes such restrictions. It
means cruise ships will stop sailing
there. Educational and cultural ex-
changes will shut down. Sports teams
will stay home. School trips will end.
Trade missions will end. American
farmers who could export products to
Cuba are going to be shut out as well
as other American companies.
I have to ask: What kind of govern-
ment thinks it has a right to tell its
citizens where they can travel and
where they can spend their own
money? Ironically, not the Cuban Gov-
ernment, despite its repressive policies.
Cubans can travel to the United States
if we grant them a visa.
Russia is kleptocracy with nuclear
weapons pointed at us, that invades its
neighbors, supports President Assad
and Nicolas Maduro, interferes with
our elections, and opposes the United
States at every turn in the U.N. Secu-
rity Council. But Americans can travel
to Russia without restriction, just as
Russians can travel here.
Iran has brutally repressive govern-
ment, but it does not have laws and
regulations to prevent its citizens from
traveling to the United States or
Americans from traveling there.
Nicaragua is led by a corrupt dic-
tator, but Nicaraguans can travel to
any country that will accept them, and
Americans are free to travel there.
In fact, Americans can travel any-
where in the world without restriction,
except to North Korea and now Cuba,
whose people could not be more wel-
coming of Americans.
How do I know this? Because unlike
the people in the White House and the
Treasury Department who have never
ever been to Cuba, I have been there.
My wife Marcelle has been there. Our
granddaughter Sophia has been there.
This administration’s policy is being
guided by a couple of hard-liners in the
National Security Council who have
never set foot in Cuba but are on a cru-
sade to pressure the Cuban Govern-
ment to change its policies. After 50
years of trying and failing to get Cuba
to change its policies, they continue to
believe that one way to do that is by
preventing Americans who believe in
democracy from traveling to Cuba and
spending their own money there.
Of all the paternalistic, anachro-
nistic, and hypocritical policies, that is
beneath the world’s oldest democracy.
We tried it for 50 years, from the time
I was in college. It failed. In fact, it
backfired. As we blocked access to
Cuba, the Cuban authorities solidified
their control.
This will backfire, too. If past experi-
ence is any guide, it will cause them to
intensify their support for Maduro.
We all want Maduro gone, but are we
so blinded by arrogance, ideology and
stupidity that we are destined to keep
repeating our mistakes?
If this policy makes sense for Cuba,
why not for other repressive govern-
ments whose policies we disagree with,
like China? They have imprisoned a
million of their Uyghur citizens. Their
military is deeply involved in the econ-
omy. Yet millions of Americans go to
China without restriction.
Egypt has destroyed what fragile
democratic institutions existed there.
They have locked up thousands of po-
litical opponents, as well as American
citizens. Yet President Trump calls
President al Sisi a great friend—a man
who locks up Americans, locks up peo-
ple who disagree with him.
Saudi Arabia commits war crimes in
Yemen, they treat women as property,
and they murdered Jamal Khashoggi
and other dissidents. The Crown
Prince, who we know was involved in
the murder of Mr. Khashoggi, is appar-
ently untouchable, and our President
and Secretary of State seem to prefer
it that way. But Americans can still
travel to Saudi Arabia without reserva-
tion.
These regulations are an insult to
every American. They are a disgrace to
a free society. Since when is it the role
of the Federal Government to say
where Americans can travel and spend
their own money, absent some threat
to national security or their own
health and safety, neither of which ex-
ists in Cuba?
It is not going to hurt the leaders in
Cuba. They are not going to submit to
bullying. If anything, it will harden
their attitude toward the United
States.
I know who it will hurt. It will hurt
the people who most deserve our help—
the Cuban families who own small busi-
nesses, who rent out rooms in their
apartments, who own their own taxis
and restaurants. Artisans and musi-
cians. People who otherwise subsist on
meager government salaries and ra-
tions and benefit enormously when
Americans visit Cuba.
Marcelle and I have met with many
of these people—young people espe-
cially—who have Airb&bs, who have
started their own small businesses.
They work extremely hard within a
system stacked against them, and they
need American customers. The White
House just slammed the door on them.
Of course we disagree with the Cuban
Government. On many things we
strongly disagree. But we disagree with
many governments over Venezuela and
other issues. Does that give the Treas-
ury Department the right to tell Amer-
icans they can’t travel there?
What if the Treasury Department im-
posed such restrictions on travel by
Members of Congress? What if they
said ‘‘after today, Members of Congress
can no longer travel to China or Rus-
sia’’. There is not a single Senator, Re-
publican or Democrat, who would stand
for that. What hypocrisy.
Freedom to travel is a right. It is
fundamental. It is part of who we are
as Americans. We travel. We explore.
We meet people. We share our values.
We build relationships with people we
agree with and disagree with. Are we
willing to stand by and let the right of
private Americans to travel be tram-
pled this way?
I will have more to say about this
self-defeatist policy when I introduce
the bipartisan Freedom for Americans
to Travel to Cuba Act.
I urge all Senators to not let the
same old, worn out, Cold War, isola-
tionist, fearmongering, failed argu-
ments about Cuba stand in the way of
common sense.
I see one of my very good friends on
the floor, the Senator from Ohio.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). The Senator from Ohio.
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I
thank my friend and colleague and one-
time President pro tempore of this
body, Senator LEAHY.
75TH ANNIVERSARY OF D-DAY
Mr. President, I am here on the floor
today to talk about D-Day, to talk
about how we would remember the 75th
anniversary tomorrow of a turning
point in World War II: June 6, 1944, the
invasion of Normandy.
Historian Douglas Brinkley has writ-
ten that D-Day was both the single
most important in the 20th century and
one of the bloodiest and most tragic,
too, in terms of loss of life.
On D-Day, our fleets set forth from
the rocky shores of Britain to reach
the fog-shrouded beaches of Normandy.
On board the thousands of ships and
planes were our fathers and grand-
fathers and great-grandfathers—some
no older than 18 years old—who would
bravely venture ashore in a show of de-
termination and duty. There were
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.057 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3241
June 5, 2019
160,000 soldiers who crossed the English
Channel that day. On their backs were
rucksacks, some weighing over 80
pounds. But really on their backs was
the fate of our allies in Europe and,
really, the fate of the free world. Were
our men to fail that day, Europe might
well have fallen to Hitler once and for
all.
Many of our best and brightest young
Americans did fall. We lost more than
10,000 men that day.
The Nazis had spent 2 years for-
tifying the coast to prepare for this
moment. It was Hitler’s so-called At-
lantic Wall. The beautiful coastline of
northern France was covered in barbed
wire, landmines, and bunkers. Hell had
come to Earth to greet our men as they
landed, and still they fought on gal-
lantly.
At the end of the largest amphibious
invasion in history, we stood vic-
torious, battered but unbroken. On we
marched, through France, through Bel-
gium, and finally into Germany. The
world would never be the same.
Even today among the beautiful flow-
ers and fields of Normandy, you can
feel the lingering presence of those who
died that day in service of liberating
Europe, and you can see it, as I have,
at the stark, orderly U.S. military
cemeteries, where row after row of
white crosses and Stars of David stand
defiant, representing lives lost in a
noble cause. Though much has hap-
pened in the following 75 years, we can
never lose sight of the valor and sac-
rifice displayed by our Armed Forces
on that day.
On Memorial Day, I spoke at the Na-
tional Veterans Memorial Museum in
Columbus, OH, and also at a cemetery
in Grove City, OH. In both ceremonies,
there were World War II veterans
present and up front. To see the gen-
erations of veterans and family mem-
bers there to honor the fallen was to
see the living embodiment of the sto-
ries we ought to remember from a war
that recedes further into the past with
each passing year.
Stories of valor like that displayed
by Jim ‘‘Pee Wee’’ Martin, from Day-
ton, OH. On that day, he and the rest of
the 506th Parachute Infantry Regiment
parachuted through German lines in
the dark of predawn. Jim was wounded
but fought bravely, earning the Purple
Heart and Bronze Star for his D-Day ef-
forts.
Stories of sacrifice like that of the
Napier Brothers of Warren County in
Southwest Ohio. All five served in the
war. Two of the brothers of the five
landed at D-Day. One died there on the
beaches, never to come home to Ohio.
These are stories to be preserved for
the generations to come. The memory
of D-Day and, indeed, all of World War
II must never be lost. That is why I was
proud to join my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle earlier today to show
through our resolution the gratitude
and appreciation of the Senate for the
courage shown by our troops who par-
ticipated in the Normandy landings
that day.
Since I have been a Member of the
Senate, I have come to this floor often
on D-Day to recite a very special pray-
er given by President Roosevelt on
that fateful day. It was expected that
Franklin Delano Roosevelt would give
a speech when the invasion took place,
as he had done many times before,
called the fireside chats from the
White House. But on the morning of D-
Day, FDR was moved to prayer instead.
That famous prayer has become known
as the D-Day prayer. It is my under-
standing that President Trump actu-
ally recited this prayer just yesterday
in the United Kingdom at an event
that preceded the official ceremonies
tomorrow commemorating the 75th an-
niversary of D-Day.
The words are powerful and deserve
to be remembered for generations to
come. In 2013, I introduced legislation,
the World War II Memorial Act, which
directs the Secretary of the Interior to
install a plaque to be placed on or near
the World War II Memorial on the Na-
tional Mall in Washington, DC, with
the words of the D-Day prayer. I like
that because it adds more context and
more interpretation to that beautiful
World War II Memorial. It was the Ohio
Christian Alliance president, Chris
Long, who first came to me with this
good idea of placing this plaque on or
near the memorial, given its history
and importance.
Since that legislation was signed into
law in 2014, we have worked hard with
the National Park Service, the Friends
of the National World War II Memorial,
and the two Federal commissions that
are required to approve any permanent
structure on the National Mall. It has
been 5 years now—actually longer than
America’s involvement in World War
II—and although we do not yet have
this plaque placed, we have made
progress.
The commissions have approved the
location of the plaque to be just north
of the World War II Memorial at the
Circle of Remembrance. If you have
been to the memorial, you come from
the Washington Monument, and you
see the Circle of Remembrance on the
right. The commissions have also ap-
proved initial design concepts for the
plaque, which must comply with the
Commemorative Works Act.
We are moving forward with this
project, by the way, without any Fed-
eral funding. We are relying on private
fundraising, not taxpayer dollars.
We had hoped to have the plaque in
place, of course, for the 75th anniver-
sary tomorrow. I am disappointed we
don’t, but, instead, we will preview to-
morrow the placement of a temporary
plaque with the words of the prayer at
the chosen location, the Circle of Re-
membrance, next to the World War II
Memorial. At our event tomorrow—
which will include the chairman of the
Friends of the National World War II
Memorial; officials from the National
Park Service; Chris Long, president of
the Ohio Christian Alliance; and a
number of World War II veterans—we
will also lead a reading of the D-Day
prayer. I am looking forward to that
tomorrow.
The temporary plaque, by the way,
was generously donated to the Friends
of the National World War II Memorial
by Mr. John Nau, a member of the Na-
tional Parks Foundation Board, who
felt strongly about at least having a
temporary plaque in place.
We are hopeful that the permanent
plaque will be placed at the Circle very
soon.
The fact that a prayer was offered
that day, on D-Day, by the Commander
in Chief is historic in and of itself, but
I think it is the content of the prayer
that makes it so worthy of remem-
brance. If I may, I would now like to
read the D-Day prayer.
FDR began:
My fellow Americans: Last night, when I
spoke with you about the fall of Rome, I
knew at that moment that troops of the
United States and our allies were crossing
the Channel in another and greater oper-
ation. It has come to pass with success thus
far.
And so, in this poignant hour, I ask you to
join with me in prayer:
Almighty God: Our sons, pride of our Na-
tion, this day have set upon a mighty en-
deavor, a struggle to preserve our Republic,
our religion, and our civilization, and to set
free a suffering humanity.
Lead them straight and true; give strength
to their arms, stoutness to their hearts,
steadfastness in their faith.
They will need Thy blessings. Their road
will be long and hard. For the enemy is
strong. He may hurl back our forces. Success
may not come with rushing speed, but we
shall return again and again; and we know
that by Thy grace, and by the righteousness
of our cause, our sons will triumph.
They will be sore tried, by night and by
day, without rest—until the victory is won.
The darkness will be rent by noise and flame.
Men’s souls will be shaken with the violences
of war.
For these men are lately drawn from the
ways of peace. They fight not for the lust of
conquest. They fight to end conquest. They
fight to liberate. They fight to let justice
arise, and tolerance and good will among all
Thy people. They yearn but for the end of
battle, for their return to the haven of home.
Some will never return. Embrace these,
Father, and receive them, Thy heroic serv-
ants, into Thy kingdom.
And for us at home—fathers, mothers, chil-
dren, wives, sisters, and brothers of brave
men overseas—whose thoughts and prayers
are ever with them—help us, Almighty God,
to rededicate ourselves in renewed faith in
Thee in this hour of great sacrifice.
Many people have urged that I call the Na-
tion into a single day of special prayer. But
because the road is long and the desire is
great, I ask that our people devote them-
selves in a continuance of prayer. As we rise
to each new day, and again when each day is
spent, let words of prayer be on our lips, in-
voking Thy help to our efforts.
Give us strength, too—strength in our
daily tasks, to redouble the contributions we
make in the physical and the material sup-
port of our armed forces.
And let our hearts be stout, to wait out the
long travail, to bear sorrows that may come,
to impart our courage unto our sons
wheresoever they may be.
And, O Lord, give us Faith. Give us Faith
in Thee; Faith in our sons; Faith in each
other; Faith in our united crusade. Let not
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.061 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3242 June 5, 2019
the keenness of our spirit ever be dulled. Let
not the impacts of temporary events, of tem-
poral matters of but fleeting moment, let
not these deter us in our unconquerable pur-
pose.
With Thy blessing, we shall prevail over
the unholy forces of our enemy. Help us to
conquer the apostles of greed and racial
arrogancies. Lead us to the saving of our
country, and with our sister Nations into a
world unity that will spell a sure peace, a
peace invulnerable to the schemings of un-
worthy men. And a peace that will let all of
men live in freedom, reaping the just re-
wards of their honest toil.
Thy will be done, Almighty God.
Amen.
I think you will agree with me that
these profound words deserve to be
made a permanent part of our broader
World War II Memorial for a noble day
that we must never forget.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
UKRAINE
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I want
to spend a few moments talking about
a trip I took overseas last week. After
honoring our fallen soldiers here at
home in Central Ohio and in Southwest
Ohio, I traveled to Ukraine, where I
had a meeting scheduled with
Ukraine’s new President, Volodymyr
Zelensky. On my way there, I stopped
in London for trade meetings and brief-
ings by our Ambassador and our excel-
lent U.S. Embassy personnel there.
I was very eager to meet President
Zelensky. First of all, along with my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle, I
have been a longtime supporter of
Ukraine’s quest for self-determination,
democracy, and freedom from Russian
aggression. As cochair and cofounder of
the Senate Ukraine Caucus, along with
my colleague DICK DURBIN of Illinois, I
have been proud to take the lead since
the Revolution of Dignity in 2014 in
giving Ukrainians the lethal and non-
lethal aid they need to defend them-
selves from aggression in Crimea and
the Donbass region.
Second, I share that enthusiasm for
Ukraine that is held by so many of my
constituents, friends of mine, particu-
larly in Cleveland and that area, who
are proud members of the Ukrainian di-
aspora.
Third, I was very impressed with
President Zelensky’s election victory,
in part because he received a remark-
able 73 percent of the vote. I also
thought his focus on reform and change
was important for the country. I want-
ed to meet with him and learn more
about how and why his appeals for
unity largely succeeded.
Fourth, I wanted to hear more about
his plans to fight the aggression from
Russia on his eastern border, fight cor-
ruption at home, and put in place the
reforms that will make his country
stronger.
Finally, I wanted to tell him we are
with him. The United States stands by
Ukraine, and the ties between our two
countries can deepen even further. We
want to help Ukraine succeed in this
historic moment.
I can report to my colleagues that I
came away impressed from the meeting
with President Zelensky. I was encour-
aged. We talked for about an hour and
covered a broad range of topics. He is
smart, engaging, and determined.
We had a good discussion about Rus-
sian aggression in Crimea and in the
Donbass region. President Zelensky
has been out to the contact line, which
is where the fighting is occurring. I
was there last year. There is a real war
going on, and 13,000 people have been
killed on the eastern border of
Ukraine, on that contact line. He spoke
frankly about the bravery of his troops
but also about their needs in terms of
the weapons systems and basic condi-
tions. We talked about the Russian
propaganda along the eastern border
and the efforts to jam Ukrainian TV
signals to sow the seeds for dissension
for the people of the Donbass region.
We talked about some ideas that would
help to counter that propaganda, the
jamming, and the disinformation, and I
have already been in touch with the
State Department about those ideas.
We also talked about the 24 Ukrain-
ian sailors who were captured by the
Russians last November 25 in the Kerch
Strait in the Azov Sea. At that time,
President Trump rightly refused to
meet with President Putin until those
sailors were free. President Zelensky
and I talked about how to keep the
pressure on Moscow to do the right
thing. I gave President Zelensky my
commitment to do everything in our
power here in the Senate to keep these
24 sailors front and center until the cri-
sis is resolved.
Recently, the United Nations issued
a statement about these sailors, by the
way. It read that they should be sent
back to Ukraine, that their taking was
wrong.
I told President Zelensky that he is
now the face of reform in Ukraine and,
indeed, for those of us who are watch-
ing around the world. He acknowledged
that with a smile. He said that his
commitment to reform is real, but he
also had no illusions about how hard
reform will be. Whether we are talking
about fighting corruption, fighting for
transparency in government, or fight-
ing for civilian control of the military,
I am very hopeful he will have the con-
tinued courage to see it through. He
understands it is the only path forward
and, frankly, is a linchpin of the U.S.
partnership with Ukraine. As a matter
of law, it is also a condition on our fu-
ture defense assistance.
Finally, we talked about the impor-
tance of the Ukrainian diaspora in the
United States—about 2 million people
strong, thousands of whom live in
Ohio, my constituents—and about how
they are putting great hopes in his
leadership and are willing to do all
they can to help.
As I said, it was a very productive
meeting, and I am grateful for his
time. Of all of the messages of that dis-
cussion, the one that was the most im-
portant to me was when I asked him
how he could win by 73 percent of the
vote. He said:
It was not about me. It was about change
and reform and the betterment of the people
of Ukraine.
It was a modest and appropriate re-
sponse.
The messages of our discussion were
reinforced in my meetings afterward
with Lieutenant General Ruslan
Khomchak. He is the new chief of the
general staff of the Armed Forces of
Ukraine—a man with great experience
and knowledge. He was confident and
well informed, and we had an open and
detailed talk about how the United
States can be helpful.
I have already begun to talk to my
colleagues on the Armed Services Com-
mittee and in the Trump administra-
tion about those specifics and some re-
quests that he had.
So, my colleagues, I return from this
brief trip to Ukraine hopeful—hopeful
that Ukraine is ready to write the next
chapter of its long history and that it
will be a chapter of freedom with a gov-
ernment and society that benefits all
of its citizens. The United States of
America must continue to be a good
friend and ally in that quest. I am cer-
tainly determined to do my part to
make it so.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 1556
Ms. BALDWIN. I rise today to once
again speak about the ongoing threat
in the Trump administration to the
healthcare and guaranteed protections
that millions of American families de-
pend upon. President Trump has tried
to pass through the Congress repeal
plans that would take people’s
healthcare away and allow insurance
companies to discriminate against peo-
ple with preexisting health conditions
or refuse to serve them at all.
When that legislative repeal effort
failed in 2017, instead of working in a
bipartisan way to lower healthcare
costs and improve access to care for all
Americans, President Trump turned to
another tactic—sabotaging our
healthcare system—and there are more
Americans uninsured today than there
were when he took office.
The Trump administration has even
gone to court. They have gone to court
to support a lawsuit that would over-
turn the Affordable Care Act, including
its provisions that protect people with
preexisting health conditions from dis-
crimination. Just think about that. He
is asking a court to strike down
healthcare protections for Americans.
If he succeeds, insurance companies
will once again be able to deny cov-
erage or charge much higher premiums
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.062 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3243
June 5, 2019
for the more than 130 million Ameri-
cans who have some sort of preexisting
health condition, including more than
2 million who live in the State of Wis-
consin.
What is the President’s plan to pro-
tect people with preexisting condi-
tions? He doesn’t have one. He never
has. And I have to say that I doubt he
ever will. In fact, this administration
has expanded what I call junk insur-
ance plans. These are insurance plans
that can deny coverage to people with
preexisting health conditions, and they
don’t have to cover basic and essential
health services, like prescription drugs
or emergency room visits or maternity
care. Most of these junk plans don’t
cover those things.
When I spoke about this expansion of
what I call junk insurance on the Sen-
ate floor 2 weeks ago, one of my Repub-
lican colleagues responded and claimed
that these plans preserve preexisting
conditions protections and essential
health benefits. So today I wanted to
clarify the record, and let’s look at the
fine print together.
One of the junk plans currently
available in my home State of Wis-
consin reads, ‘‘This plan has a pre-
existing limitation provision that may
prevent coverage from applying to
medical conditions that existed prior
to this plan’s effective date.’’
Another junk plan that is sold in
Wisconsin states that the plan does not
comply with the guaranteed essential
benefits provided by the Affordable
Care Act. To quote directly, the de-
scription reads: ‘‘This coverage is not
required to comply with certain federal
market requirements for health insur-
ance, principally those contained in
the Affordable Care Act.’’ The tiny fine
print on this particular junk plan in-
structs individuals to check their cov-
erage carefully to make sure they are
‘‘aware of any exclusions or limitation
regarding coverage of pre-existing con-
ditions or health benefits (such as hos-
pitalization, emergency services, ma-
ternity care, preventive care, prescrip-
tion drugs, and mental health and sub-
stance use disorder services). Your cer-
tificate might also have lifetime and/or
annual dollar limits on health bene-
fits.’’
The Affordable Care Act protects
people against these insurance com-
pany abuses. Yet the expansion of
these junk plans puts the power back
in the hands of big insurance compa-
nies.
Let me be clear. American families
do not want to go back to the days
when health insurers could discrimi-
nate against people with preexisting
health conditions, women, and seniors
by denying them coverage or charging
them higher premiums simply because
they get sick.
As I have said in this Chamber many
times, the people of Wisconsin want
both parties in Congress to work to-
gether to make things better by mak-
ing healthcare more affordable.
I have heard from several Wisconsin-
ites who want to know why the Presi-
dent is working to repeal the Afford-
able Care Act and take away their pro-
tections by expanding these junk plans.
They are frightened that if this sabo-
tage of our health system continues,
insurance companies will again be able
to deny coverage or charge higher pre-
miums for the more than 130 million
Americans who have preexisting health
conditions, again, including more than
2 million in my home State of Wis-
consin.
I heard from Keri from Baraboo. Keri
is a three-time cancer survivor—two
breast cancer diagnoses and one mela-
noma. She experienced her first diag-
nosis at age 29. Now at age 61, Keri is
able to get the healthcare she needs
without being punished financially for
having a preexisting condition. Keri is
worried that if the Affordable Care Act
is repealed, she could lose her health
coverage or could be charged more be-
cause of her preexisting condition.
Another Wisconsinite, Keith in
Brookfield, recently wrote in to my of-
fice about what healthcare means to
him and his family. Keith and his son
both have type 1 diabetes. Both of
them have health insurance through
the Affordable Care marketplace that
allows them to afford the insulin, glu-
cose test strips, and other medications
they need. If the Affordable Care Act is
repealed, Keith and his son likely
would not even be eligible to purchase
one of these junk insurance plans.
They could be denied coverage entirely
due to their preexisting condition.
We really need to act to stop this
sabotage now. I want to protect the
guaranteed healthcare protections that
millions of Americans depend on. That
is why I have introduced legislation,
with my colleague, Senator DOUG
JONES of Alabama, to overturn the
Trump administration’s expansion of
junk insurance plans, because we
should be increasing access to afford-
able, high-quality healthcare options.
The entire Senate Democratic caucus
supports this legislation, along with
the two Independents who caucus with
us. The Nation’s top healthcare organi-
zations, representing tens of thousands
of the Nation’s physicians, patients,
medical students, and other health ex-
perts, support this legislation.
Anyone who says they support
healthcare coverage for people with
preexisting conditions should support
this bill.
Mr. President, as in legislative ses-
sion, I ask unanimous consent that the
HELP Committee be discharged from
further consideration of S. 1556; that
the Senate proceed to its immediate
consideration; that the bill be consid-
ered read a third time and passed; and
that the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, reserving
the right to object, let me just say that
the plans to which the Senator from
Wisconsin is referring are plans that
tens of thousands of people are buying,
and one of the reasons they are buying
them is because it allows them to buy
the insurance they want at a price they
can afford.
I can tell you, as I am sure the Pre-
siding Officer can and probably every-
body here can, when they travel across
the country and talk with the farmers
and ranchers and people who are buy-
ing their insurance on the individual
market, the individual market has
blown up. It has exploded. People are
paying $3,000 a month in premiums—
$36,000 a year—and have huge
deductibles. So what they are doing is
they are dropping coverage because
they can’t afford it. One of the reasons
they can’t afford it is because, under
ObamaCare, there were so many man-
dates and requirements, it drove up the
price. So they have these skyrocketing
premiums, higher deductibles, and
higher copays.
I think that is precisely why the ad-
ministration decided that, let’s take
these plans and give people an oppor-
tunity to buy the insurance they want
at a price they can afford.
Literally tens of thousands of Ameri-
cans are now in these plans. What the
Senator from Wisconsin is saying is, we
are going to throw all these people off
these plans. What does that do? That
puts them back out, probably unin-
sured, which is what a lot of farmers
and ranchers in places in South Dakota
are doing—they are just dropping cov-
erage because they can’t afford it. Who
can afford to pay $3,000 a month? That
is what ObamaCare has left us. That is
why we need new solutions. This solu-
tion is one that allows people to buy a
plan they want at a price they can af-
ford, coupled with association health
plans—which Democrats, I think, here
in the Senate are also objecting to and
opposing—which are also giving indi-
viduals opportunities to join larger
groups and spread their risk and drive
down their premiums. We need plans
that people in this country can afford,
or more and more people are going to
be in the ranks of the uninsured.
So, Mr. President, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from Wisconsin.
Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, I am
disappointed that my Republican col-
leagues have once again chosen to ob-
ject to protecting people with pre-
existing conditions.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, would
my colleague yield?
Ms. BALDWIN. Senator, I would be
happy to yield.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I appre-
ciate my colleague. I am in such strong
support of her legislation, the No Junk
Plans Act. I will speak briefly on it
after the Senator has concluded her
important remarks. But apropos of
what the distinguished Senator from
South Dakota just said, isn’t it correct
that of course a plan is more affordable
if it doesn’t cover anything? I would be
interested in my colleague’s reaction
to that, as she is the lead sponsor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.065 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3244 June 5, 2019
I remember being in Wisconsin and
seeing the wonderful support folks
there have from my colleague because
she has been a leader on these issues.
I am just curious, because certainly
my friend from South Dakota, who is a
distinguished member of the Finance
Committee and works with Senator
CORTEZ MASTO and me, often works
with us on matters. But unless I am
missing something, he said that what
he is interested in is care that is more
affordable. But it doesn’t cover any-
thing. What are my colleague’s
thoughts on that?
Ms. BALDWIN. I would concur and
say that the reason they have earned
the nickname ‘‘junk plans’’ is because,
frankly, some of them are hardly worth
the paper they are written on.
First of all, they do not have to com-
ply with some of the very important
protections we included as part of the
Affordable Care Act—otherwise known
as ObamaCare—especially to protect
people who have been ill once before or
have been injured once before, people
who have a preexisting health condi-
tion, maybe a chronic condition that
will require medical care throughout
their lives.
In the old days, which apparently the
Republican Senator wants to return to,
there were all sorts of abuses, I would
argue, that insurance companies could
employ in order to limit their expo-
sure, if you will. They had annual lim-
its. They had lifetime limits. They had
the capacity to drop somebody from
coverage after an illness developed.
They had the capacity to say: No, we
are not going to offer you insurance.
They certainly had the capacity to
charge discriminatory premiums based
on the preexisting condition. That
causes great concern.
I just recently saw a report about
how much a typical—put it this way: a
woman with a breast cancer diagnosis
who requires chemotherapy and radi-
ation treatment and medication—how
much she would be anticipated to
spend out-of-pocket if she had a junk
plan at the time that diagnosis was
made. It was, on average, $40,000.
We also need to talk about another
impact these junk plans have, and that
is, if you think you have a really good
chance of being healthy for the next
year, and you decide ‘‘This is a risk I
can take,’’ you are then fundamentally
changing the structure of the market-
place for everyone else. You can antici-
pate that this is a choice healthier,
maybe younger people will make, and
it has a distorting impact on premiums
in the marketplace. In fact, that is why
these plans were curtailed under the
previous administration. Now, this ad-
ministration is greatly expanding
these. They are no longer short term.
They are long term, and a lot of harm
will come.
I want to conclude and say that when
we have an administration that first
fought legislatively to repeal the Af-
fordable Care Act and then acted ad-
ministratively to undermine and sabo-
tage the Affordable Care Act through
all sorts of administrative Executive
actions, including defunding the State
navigators who helped people make
wise selections for their insurance and
also limiting the open enrollment pe-
riod, and when we have an administra-
tion that has decided to go to court
and asked the court to strike down a
U.S. law in its entirety, we know there
is sabotage going on.
I think the choice for the American
people couldn’t be clearer. We want to
make things better, and the adminis-
tration—enabled by some of my Senate
Republican colleagues—is walking
down a path that has led to 2 million
people losing their health insurance
and others at grave risk of losing it in
the future.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, before
she leaves the floor, I want to tell my
colleague from Wisconsin—and I think
I speak for the distinguished Senator
from Nevada as well—we are counting
on our colleague from Wisconsin to
come back to this floor again and again
to try to pass her bill. I just want to
tell her I will be with her every step of
the way because I think, colleagues,
without the bill from the distinguished
Senator from Wisconsin, what we are
looking at is a new golden age for scam
artists peddling insurance that isn’t
worth much more than the paper it is
written on.
I was struck by my friend from Wis-
consin’s mentioning the old days of
junk insurance.
Well, I was around for those old days.
I remember when the health insurance
system in this country was basically
for the healthy and wealthy. If you
were healthy, no sweat, you could get
insurance. If you were wealthy, you
just went off and paid the bills. But the
insurance companies could go out there
and clobber people with preexisting
conditions. So that was junk insur-
ance.
But I am even older than that. I re-
member when I was director of the Or-
egon Gray Panthers. I would go to a
senior’s house, and they would pull out
a shoebox full of policies—10 or 15 poli-
cies. The distinguished Senator from
Nevada, who has done so much con-
sumer advocacy for consumers, I am
sure knows about this challenge with
seniors. These policies weren’t worth
the paper they were written on. They
had—because I am kind of a lawyer in
name only—what were called subroga-
tion clauses. So if you had two policies,
and they basically covered the same
thing, both of them would try to
squirm out of covering it. Talk about
junk insurance.
Finally, I got elected to Congress,
like my colleague activist, and we
passed a law that said we are going to
get rid of that system and that you
could have really only one policy, ex-
cept in unusual situations. There were
strong consumer protections.
But if you look at what the Trump
golden age of scams is going to bring
back, there are going to be lots of peo-
ple who are going to get clobbered, and,
as my colleagues know, the people who
are really going to get hit by this are,
for example, older women who are pre-
Medicare, because very often, in their
late fifties and early sixties, they have
a lot of difficulty trying to find jobs
that pay good salaries and jobs that
have good healthcare coverage.
I am so appreciative of what my col-
league is talking about.
We are going to hear a lot of buzz
words. Opponents of the Baldwin legis-
lation are going to talk about how they
are offering flexibility and they are of-
fering patient-centered care. But that
is just a bunch of eyewash because
what they really do, as you touched on,
is to fail to give patients care when
they most need care.
Today, Americans ought to be pro-
tected from these worthless, predatory
scams. One of the things that I was
proudest of, really, before my col-
leagues came here, is a piece of legisla-
tion I wrote, the Healthy Americans
Act. A number of Republican Senators
were cosponsors of this bill. It had air-
tight, loophole-free protection to en-
sure that people with preexisting con-
ditions didn’t face discrimination.
By and large, we got that provision
into the Affordable Care Act. It meant,
as John McCain knew—we often talked
about it—that healthcare would no
longer be there just for the healthy and
the wealthy. There would be real pro-
tections for those with preexisting con-
ditions.
For all practical purposes, that was
really one of the two or three center-
pieces of the Affordable Care Act, be-
cause, talk about a new age in insur-
ance, that was it. Healthcare insurance
would no longer be there for the
healthy and wealthy only.
Senator BALDWIN is here, and what
she is trying to do—I am looking at
that clock—is trying to keep the
Trump people from turning it back.
That is what they want to do when
Senator BALDWIN talks about the old
days—a forced march back to the days
when the insurance companies could
really, in many instances, just beat the
stuffing out of vulnerable people.
I thank my colleague for what she is
doing. I heard just a little bit about it
before I came over. I basically said:
Let’s hold off on things for a couple of
hours so I can go out there and stand
with Senator BALDWIN and her allies.
I say to the Senator: To me, what is
important is that you have been here
today, and it is going to be even more
important that you come back again
and again and again so that that clock
continues to move forward in terms of
American healthcare and not go back-
ward. I thank my colleague.
We are really delighted to have Sen-
ator CORTEZ MASTO on the Senate Fi-
nance Committee, where she has been
doing a lot of good work in healthcare
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.067 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3245
June 5, 2019
for consumers and seniors. I look for-
ward to her remarks and to working
with both of my colleagues.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nevada.
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President,
let me just say, on behalf of the State
of Nevada, that I am so appreciative
that I get to work with my colleagues
from Wisconsin and Oregon. I thank
them for their commitment because
this is the No. 1 issue in the State of
Nevada.
I say to Senator BALDWIN: What you
are doing is really standing up for peo-
ple and their right to have access to af-
fordable healthcare in this country
when they need it, access to medica-
tion when they need it, and the com-
fort in knowing that if they purchase a
plan, if something, God forbid, should
happen to them, then, they will have
access to that medication and those
doctors when they need it. Thank you
for your hard work.
I stand today because I want to tell
you about one of these people in the
State of Nevada. Her name is Carol
Elewski. She is from Reno, NV. Carol
has chronic asthma. She manages it
with medications that cost up to $400 a
month—$400 a month.
In October of 2016, Carol had such a
bad asthma attack that she was admit-
ted to the hospital for 10 days as doc-
tors struggled to get her breathing
under control. Thankfully, today Car-
ol’s health is stable, but because of her
preexisting condition and high pre-
scription drug costs, she depends on
the protections of the Affordable Care
Act to keep her healthcare costs in
check.
This administration, as we have
heard today from my colleagues, keeps
chipping away at those protections.
Literally, we have heard from the
President that he is proud of sabo-
taging the Affordable Care Act. He has
weakened the ACA by expanding access
to these junk plans. These short-term,
limited-duration plans don’t cover es-
sential services, like prescription
drugs, emergency rooms visits, and ma-
ternity care.
Today, I am joining my colleagues
to, once again, urge that we do away
with these scam insurance policies.
These plans appeal to consumers be-
cause they are low cost, but they are
also low benefit, as we have heard.
Many people who purchase them don’t
realize just how limited the coverage
is. All those details are in the fine
print of the policies in dense legal jar-
gon, and it is nearly impossible to un-
derstand. I am an attorney, and I will
tell you that even attorneys have dif-
ficulty understanding that dense legal
jargon in some of these policies. Con-
sumers don’t know that the plans they
are signing up for—because of the
dense legal jargon and because they are
not given specifics, and there is not
enough transparency—don’t even cover
their preexisting conditions. Con-
sumers may not realize that their cov-
erage has annual or lifetime spending
caps.
Take Carol, for instance. Let’s say
she had signed up for a junk plan in-
stead of an ACA-compliant plan—an
easy mistake to make, since companies
hide the differences between the two.
With the junk plan, Carol’s insurance
could have refused to cover her
healthcare costs because of her asth-
ma. They could have denied payment
for the emergency treatment she need-
ed when she literally could not
breathe, and they could have declined
coverage for the essential medications
she needs to keep the asthma in check.
Under these junk plans, women who
get pregnant don’t get coverage for
prenatal care or for delivering their ba-
bies. People with lifelong genetic con-
ditions, like cystic fibrosis, can be de-
nied coverage, as can those facing men-
tal health issues.
What is more, even if you don’t buy a
junk healthcare plan, these plans’ very
existence drives up our healthcare
costs in this country. That is because
younger, healthier people are more
likely to risk choosing a limited junk
plan because those plans are cheaper.
That leaves the rest of the population,
including many women and children, in
a much more expensive insurance pool.
Estimates say that junk plans could
cost a family of four with an ACA plan
over $3,000 in increased insurance pre-
miums every year. The No Junk Plans
Act that Senator BALDWIN has intro-
duced undoes the administration’s
order that allowed insurance compa-
nies to offer consumers up to 3 years of
deceptive, skimpy coverage.
Under the No Junk Plans Act, cus-
tomers can only use these short-term
plans for 90 days. The plans would work
the way they were intended—as a
bridge between coverage at one job and
the next.
I hear this all the time in Nevada.
Americans have told us time and again
what they want their healthcare to do:
to cover preexisting conditions, keep
down prescription drug costs, include
women’s health, cover mental health,
and pay for emergency rooms visits.
I am going to continue to fight for
what the American people want, and
that is the comprehensive coverage of
the Affordable Care Act.
We cannot let the administration
succeed in doing an end-run around the
ACA. The House has already passed
legislation to do away with these flim-
sy and deceptive junk plans. Now it is
time for the Senate to step up and do
the same.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
(The remarks of Senator UDALL per-
taining to the submission of S. 1753 are
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
Mr. LEE. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
RECOGNIZING THE SENATE PAGES
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
today is the last day of the session for
the Senate pages who served during the
spring semester. I want to thank them
for their hard work and service to the
Senate over the last 4 months. I wish
you all well as you return to your
home States with a greater apprecia-
tion for the Senate and our work here.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the list of pages graduating
this week be printed in the CONGRES-
SIONAL RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
Meg Balaji
Elizabeth Bates
Craig Birckhead-Morton
Jackson Cargill
Olivia Castilla
Michael Cathy
Brooke Culp
William Deaton
Gabe Fanning
Caroline Ferry
Cameron Fowler
Sophie Hart
Laura Hartman
Ruthie Kesri
Joe Lesser
Dan McDermott
George Moore
Virginia Pillion
Katerina Retzlaff
Bella Sandoval-Encinas
Matthew Shabino
Caleb Shriver
Hunter Steinlage
Kara Swain
Colby Switser
Teagan Thompson
John Wahlig III
Jamie Yoder
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
might just add that, frequently, it is
difficult to go back to boring high
school. So I hope you are all able to ac-
climate yourselves to the real world
again and always remember your expe-
rience here in the greatest deliberative
body in the world.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of Cal-
endar No. 252; that the nomination be
confirmed; that the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate; that no further motions be in
order; that any statements related to
the nomination be printed in the
Record; that the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate’s action,
and the Senate resume legislative ses-
sion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The nomination considered and con-
firmed is as follows:
The following named officer for ap-
pointment as Commandant of the Ma-
rine Corps and appointment in the
United States Marine Corps to the
grade indicated while assigned to a po-
sition of importance and responsibility
under title 10, U.S.C., sections 601 and
8043: To be General
Lt. Gen. David H. Berger
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.068 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3246 June 5, 2019
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate will now resume legislative session.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO STEPHEN J. SCATES
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, every
day, the American farmer works hard
to keep the faith and survive un-
knowns—from changes in the market-
place or the unpredictability of the
weather, to changes in public policy.
We saw that in the 1980s with disrup-
tions in our export markets, depressed
prices, creeping debt, and high produc-
tion costs. We see that same today.
Just like then, Illinois farm families
have a trusted person fighting to keep
their operations strong and to help
pave the way for a stronger future for
farming—his name is Steve Scates.
I am here today to honor my friend
Steve, who was recently named one of
this year’s Southern Illinois University
Distinguished Alumni. He has more
than earned this prestigious recogni-
tion.
A native of Shawneetown in southern
Illinois, Steve has worked his entire
life in agriculture, from production ag-
riculture with his grandfather, who
founded Pat Scates and Sons Farm, to
developing public policy that supports
our farmers. Ever since he earned his
bachelor’s degree from Southern Illi-
nois University in 1959 in animal
sciences, Steve has been actively in-
volved in a wide range of professional
agricultural organizations, including in
several leadership posts, like chair of
the Illinois Soybean Association board
of directors.
President Bill Clinton recognized
Steve’s experience and hard work sup-
porting the Illinois farming commu-
nity by appointing him the State Exec-
utive Director for the Illinois offices of
the USDA Farm Service Agency, where
he served for 8 years and played a crit-
ical role in the implementation of the
1996 farm bill programs.
He went on to serve as chairperson of
the Illinois Council for Food and Agri-
cultural Research. During his time
there, he received more awards than
can be counted, including the Farm Bu-
reau Eagle Award, the USDA Sec-
retary’s Award, and the SIU College of
Agricultural Sciences 2008 Outstanding
Alumni Award.
With all the awards and recognition,
Steve’s career has really been about
helping people. While he is part of one
of the largest farming operations in Il-
linois, he has always worked to look
out for the interests of the smallest of
farming operations to ensure they re-
ceived a fair shake.
Although today they say that Steve
has retired from farming, I know that
he is still actively involved and serves
as a senior partner at Pat Scates and
Sons Farms and on the board of direc-
tors for Scates Gardens, Inc. Steve is
never far from his partner and wife,
Kappy, and his heart is always with his
fabulous family.
Illinois agriculture is lucky to have a
champion like Steve and his family
still going strong in the farming com-
munity. America and Illinois need
leaders like Steve now more than ever.
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I was
necessarily absent, but had I been
present, I would have voted no on roll-
call vote No. 141, the confirmation of
Susan Combs to be Assistant Secretary
of the Interior.
I was necessarily absent but had I
been present, would have voted no on
rollcall vote No. 142, the motion to in-
voke cloture on Ryan T. Holte, to be a
judge of the U.S. Court of Federal
Claims.
I was necessarily absent but, had I
been present, would have voted no on
rollcall vote No. 143, the motion to in-
voke cloture on Rossie David Alston,
Jr., to be U.S. district judge for the
Eastern District of Virginia.
I was necessarily absent but, had I
been present, would have voted no on
rollcall vote No. 144, the motion to in-
voke cloture on Richard A. Hertling, to
be a judge of the U.S. Court of Federal
Claims.
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President, I
was necessarily absent for vote No. 137
on the confirmation of David Schenker
to be an Assistant Secretary of State.
On vote No. 137, had I been present, I
would have voted yea on confirmation.
I was also necessarily absent for vote
No. 138 on the confirmation of Heath
Tarbert to be Chairman of the Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission
and for vote No. 139 on the confirma-
tion of Heath Tarbert to be Commis-
sioner of the Commodity Futures Trad-
ing Commission. On vote No. 138 and
vote No. 139, had I been present, I
would have voted yea on confirmation
to be Chairman and Commissioner.
I was also necessarily absent for vote
No. 140 on the motion to invoke cloture
on the nomination of Susan Combs to
be an Assistant Secretary of the Inte-
rior. On vote No. 140, had I been
present, I would have voted nay on the
motion to invoke cloture.
f
75TH ANNIVERSARY OF D-DAY
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, later
today, I will be leaving with many
other Senators on an official trip to
Normandy, France, to celebrate the
75th anniversary of the D-day invasion,
also known as Operation Overlord. I
consider it a high honor to be part of a
congressional delegation commemo-
rating one of the most important days
in the history of human civilization. It
is especially important to make this
trip at a time when relations with our
traditional trans-Atlantic allies are
under undue and unnecessary stress.
On June 6, 1944, the largest single
amphibious assault in history crossed
the English Channel and stormed the
beaches of Normandy, code-named
‘‘Utah,’’ ‘‘Omaha,’’ ‘‘Gold,’’ ‘‘Juno,’’
and ‘‘Sword,’’ names that will be for-
ever associated with acts of uncommon
valor and self-sacrifice in defense of
human freedom and dignity. The Allied
armada involved over 156,000 U.S., Brit-
ish, and Canadian troops traveling
aboard almost 7,000 naval ships and
landing vessels.
Even before the amphibious assault,
in the darkened skies of that early
morning, 13,100 American paratroopers
of the 82nd and 10lst Airborne Divisions
made parachute drops near Carentan
from over 2,000 Allied aircraft, followed
by 3,937 troops flown in by day on 867
gliders as the opening maneuver of Op-
eration Neptune, the assault operation
for Overlord.
Three of the six Allied divisions in-
volved in D-day were American, includ-
ing the 29th Infantry Division. The 29th
Infantry Division was activated on
February 3, 1941, and based at Fort
Meade, MD. It consisted of soldiers
from Maryland and Virginia. In Sep-
tember 1942, the 29th deployed to Eng-
land, where it made final preparations
for the D-day invasion.
Operation Overlord called for Allied
troops to storm ashore five landing
areas along the 50-mile stretch of Nor-
mandy’s shore. U.S. forces were respon-
sible for taking Utah and Omaha. Se-
curing Omaha was critical to the Al-
lies’ success and would be the site of
the heaviest German resistance. The
29th and the 1st Infantry Division were
responsible for taking Omaha. Nearly
10,000 men of the 29th formed the first
assault wave on Omaha. At approxi-
mately 6:30 in the morning on June 6th,
Allied forces encountered stormy seas,
a low tide, reinforced obstacles, and a
force of 50,000 German troops awaiting
them on Normandy’s 50-mile shoreline.
George ‘‘Billy’’ Forbes, Jr., of
Bryantown, MD, was a radio operator
in the 29th Infantry Division. Mr.
Forbes described his feelings before the
D-day invasion as ‘‘very anxious and
very scared.’’ He said that even though
he did not know what to expect, he had
a job to do, and he was going to do it
to the best of his ability.
Lester Lease of Cumberland, MD, was
only 16 years old when he lied about his
age to join the Army. He was a ser-
geant in the 29th when he landed at
Omaha Beach. Mr. Lease stressed the
difficulty of the amphibious assault.
The ‘‘Higgins boats’’ could not get
close enough to shore for the soldiers
to get off on the land, so they had to
swim through deep water before they
could wade or crawl ashore. Many of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:51 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.072 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3247
June 5, 2019
them perished in the onslaught of with-
ering German machine gun and artil-
lery fire before they even made it to
shore. Those who did make it to the
beaches encountered thick shell smoke
that obstructed their visibility, and
they heard the cries for help from their
fellow soldiers lying wounded nearby as
German machine gun fire relentlessly
rained down on them.
Charles ‘‘Harry’’ Heinlein, a 22-year-
old Army private from Baltimore, MD,
described the scene as total confusion,
recalling, ‘‘It seemed like hours to get
off the beach. At this point, the only
orders being yelled to those still able
to fight was, ‘Get off the beach! Get off
the beach!’ ’’
William Bladen of College Park, MD,
was a 19-year-old paratrooper in the
82nd Airborne Division. In the dark,
early hours of that morning, Private
First Class Bladen parachuted into
Normandy with two 20-pound satchels
of TNT attached to him and unable to
see where he would land. Mr. Bladen
said, ‘‘War is hell—in fact, it’s worse
than hell.’’ But he had a mission and
he did it.
Joe Heinlein of Parkville, MD, pro-
vided context to the American casual-
ties suffered. He pointed out that be-
fore D-day, Bravo Company, 175th
Regiment, of the 29th Infantry Divi-
sion, had about 200 men; by June 19
about a dozen men remained. Mr.
Bladen added, ‘‘I hope people remember
that a lot of men gave their lives for
others.’’
Freedom is not free. The Normandy
American Cemetery serves as the final
resting place for 9,380 American mili-
tary dead, most of whom lost their
lives in the D-day landings. On the
Walls of the Missing are inscribed an-
other 1,557 names of soldiers whose re-
mains were never recovered or identi-
fied. We must never forget those who,
in Abraham Lincoln’s immortal words,
‘‘have laid so costly a sacrifice upon
the altar of freedom.’’ The Americans
who died on the beaches and in the
fields of Normandy made the ultimate
sacrifice, but they did not die in vain.
They helped to defeat fascism, totali-
tarianism, and the Nazi regime. They
helped to liberate Europe and the con-
centration camps. In GEN Dwight Ei-
senhower’s D-day address, he declared
to Allied troops, ‘‘The eyes of the world
are upon you. The hopes and prayers of
liberty-loving people everywhere
march with you . . . The free men of
the world are marching together to vic-
tory.
We remember and we honor the in-
trepid heroes of the 29th Infantry Divi-
sion and all the other members of the
‘‘Greatest generation’’ who marched
together into battle and demonstrated
remarkable acts of valor and sacrifice
75 years ago tomorrow.
As the poet Archibald MacLeish
wrote, ‘‘There are those who will say
that the liberation of humanity, the
freedom of man and mind is nothing
but a dream. They are right. It is the
American Dream.’’ But it is a dream
that we Americans share with all peo-
ple who cherish freedom and human
dignity now, just as we did on June 6th,
1944.
f
100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE 19TH
AMENDMENT
Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, I am
proud to rise today to celebrate the
100th anniversary of the day my home
State of Wisconsin became the first
State in the Nation to ratify the 19th
Amendment to the U.S. Constitution,
giving women the right to vote.
Although the outcome was a historic
victory, women did not gain the right
to vote without a struggle. The road to
Wisconsin’s ratification of the 19th
Amendment was paved with more than
70 years of advocacy and speeches,
marches and rallies, legislation and
lawsuits by strong Wisconsin suffra-
gists. Many of the battles were lost be-
fore they were won.
When Wisconsin became a State in
1848, only White male landowners over
21 years of age could vote. In 1869,
women won the right to run for local
school boards in Wisconsin but iron-
ically could not vote for themselves. In
1886, Wisconsin voters approved a
statewide referendum allowing women
to vote in school elections. When
women tried to exercise their new
rights for the first time in 1887, how-
ever, many women’s ballots were dis-
carded because there was no way to
verify that women voted only in school
elections. Racine suffragist Olympia
Brown sued to have her ballot accept-
ed, but the State supreme court said
the law was vague and needed to be re-
written. Fourteen years later, the Wis-
consin Legislature approved the cre-
ation of separate ballots for women
that only included school elections.
In 1911, Wisconsin suffragists per-
suaded the legislature to authorize a
statewide referendum on voting rights
for women, but it was soundly defeated
by an electorate that didn’t include
women. Two years later, the legisla-
ture again called for a referendum on
women’s suffrage, but it was vetoed by
the Governor. In 1915, another attempt
at a referendum was rejected by law-
makers.
Women’s suffrage fared much better
when the debate over voting rights
shifted from individual States to the
national stage. Congress passed the
19th Amendment on June 4, 1919. Less
than a week later, on June 10th, the
Wisconsin Legislature ratified the
amendment, narrowly beating out its
neighbor to the south. Illinois had ac-
tually ratified the amendment an hour
before Wisconsin, but a paperwork
error delayed the filing of the Illinois
documents. By August 26, 1920, the nec-
essary 36 States had ratified the 19th
Amendment, and women were granted
full voting rights.
As we celebrate the centennial of this
historic moment, it is important to ac-
knowledge that ratification of the 19th
Amendment did not extend voting
rights to all women. Advocacy for suf-
frage for Black women was often aban-
doned in an attempt to gain support for
ratification in the South. African-
American women faced disenfranchise-
ment tactics that ranged from separate
long lines and civics tests to poll taxes
and even beatings. Many of these tac-
tics continued until passage of the Vot-
ing Rights Act of 1965.
Wisconsin owes its unique position in
history to the voices of powerful Wis-
consin women who not only spoke
truth to power but who also shattered
the glass ceiling in their professional
lives. Belle Case LaFollette, originally
from Summit, was the first woman to
graduate from law school in Wisconsin.
Laura Ross Wolcott from Milwaukee
was Wisconsin’s first woman physician.
Olympia Brown of Racine was the first
woman to be ordained a minister in the
entire country. Nationally renowned
suffragist Carrie Chapman Catt from
Ripon was indispensable to passage of
the amendment. As the first woman to
represent Wisconsin in the U.S. House
of Representatives and now the U.S.
Senate, I am humbled to walk the path
these strong women helped forge for
their successors.
One hundred years ago, after decades
of struggle by brave women and men,
our Nation finally extended to women
the most fundamental right in our de-
mocracy—the right to vote. As we cele-
brate this historic milestone in our Na-
tion’s history, let us vow to continue
to fight for full equality for women, in-
cluding access to health care, in work-
place salaries, and in representation
the Halls of Congress.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
REMEMBERING DON FRASER
∑ Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President,
today I wish to acknowledge the pass-
ing of a true champion for good—
former Congressman, Minneapolis
mayor, and my friend and neighbor—
Don Fraser, who died at the age of 95
on June 2, 2019. Those who knew him
best described Don as thoughtful, de-
cent, intelligent, tough, and absolutely
wonderful.
Don Fraser was born in Minneapolis,
MN, in 1924. He fought in World War II
and later studied law at the University
of Minnesota Law School. He joined
the law firm of Larson, Loevinger,
Lindquist, Freeman, and Fraser before
he was elected to the Minnesota State
Senate in 1954. In 1962, Don was elected
to the House of Representatives, rep-
resenting Minnesota’s Fifth District,
where he served for 16 years. Don went
on to serve as mayor of Minneapolis
from 1980 to 1994, making him the long-
est serving mayor in Minneapolis his-
tory.
Don was married to Arvonne Skelton
Fraser, who dedicated her life to im-
proving the lives of women around the
world. Together, they had six children:
Thomas, Mary, John, Lois, Anne, and
Jean.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.022 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3248 June 5, 2019
Known as the Quiet Crusader, Don
was always ahead of his time. As a
Congressman, he fought for the envi-
ronment and human rights and exposed
human rights abuses around the world.
As mayor of Minneapolis—a job he be-
lieved was truly the most rewarding of
his career—he advocated for early
childhood education and put an end to
the ingrained politics of the city’s po-
lice department. Tom Fraser may have
summed up his father’s service best
when he said, ‘‘He persuaded people by
the power of his argument, not the vol-
ume of his speech.’’ Public service was
Don’s calling.
My first job in Democratic politics
was serving as the volunteer president
of the DFL Education Foundation, a
group Don Fraser founded. His mis-
sion? Ideas matter in politics. And he
lived that. Don and Arvonne were the
heart and soul of the group.
In this era of sound bites and quick
fixes to problems, Don and Arvonne
yearned for something more substan-
tial in the way they talked about
issues. They worked to promote more
citizen involvement in politics.
I remember when Don used to intro-
duce me at events during my run for
Hennepin County attorney, and he used
to say, ‘‘I used to work for the city of
Minneapolis.’’ In reality, Don has never
stopped working for Minneapolis and
his country. Don was a great public
servant and an outstanding mentor to
the next generation. He understood
that his public service didn’t end with
him.
It has been said that it is lucky to
have somebody who makes it hard to
say goodbye. It is hard to say goodbye
to Don Fraser, but I count myself
lucky to have known him as a friend.
My family and I greatly miss Don. We
miss seeing him walking with Arvonne
arm in arm in our neighborhood, and
we miss their passion for public service
and their love for their family and
friends.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO PETER MELVIN
THOMPSON, JR.
∑ Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, today I
wish to recognize and celebrate the life
of Peter Melvin Thompson, Jr., a deco-
rated Vietnam war veteran and proud
member of the White Earth Nation,
who passed away on Wednesday, Janu-
ary 30, 2019. Today, on June 5, 2019, Mr.
Thompson will be buried with full mili-
tary honors in Arlington National
Cemetery for his service to this coun-
try. He is the first member of the
White Earth Nation to receive this
honor.
Mr. Thompson served in the Army for
12 years, during which time he received
six Purple Hearts, one Silver Star with
valor device, and 3 Bronze Stars with
valor device. In 1960, at the age of 17,
Mr. Thompson talked his dad into sign-
ing papers allowing him to enlist in the
U.S. Army. He attended basic training
and was posted to Fort Leonard Wood,
MO, before volunteering to go to fight
in the Vietnam war. Mr. Thompson de-
ployed twice to Vietnam, first with the
First Cavalry Regiment in central
Vietnam from January 1968 to 1969.
During this deployment, Mr. Thompson
was wounded twice and earned a
Bronze Star.
Soon after returning to the States,
Mr. Thompson volunteered for a second
tour in Vietnam. During his second
tour, Mr. Thompson served as platoon
leader in charge of seven armored per-
sonnel carriers and three tanks. He was
wounded four more times. In 1970,
while on a rescue mission, Mr. Thomp-
son was injured in combat for the last
time. He was airlifted to Hawk Hill,
where he helped identify all the lost
men in his platoon before being sent to
a field hospital to begin recovery. Mr.
Thompson was transferred to Colorado,
where he finished his recuperation and
served as a probation officer at Fort
Carson before being discharged in 1972.
Mr. Thompson met and married Eve-
lyn Auginaush on July 10, 1973 at St.
Phillips Church in Rice Lake, MN. To-
gether they moved throughout Min-
nesota before returning to Mr. Thomp-
son’s home in Rice Lake. Never one to
be idle, Mr. Thompson found work as a
trapper for the State and Tribe Pred-
ator Control and also worked at the
Leech Lake Indian Health Hospital Fa-
cilities as a manager, where he won
two awards for his service. Mr. Thomp-
son’s time in the military also left an
indelible mark on his life and led him
to start the White Earth Honor Guard,
which he remained a part of through-
out his life.
Today, Mr. Thompson is being laid to
rest with full military honors in Ar-
lington National Cemetery by his wife
Evelyn, daughters Cheryl and Carol, 15
grandchildren, 6 great grandchildren,
and many others. I am proud today to
recognize Peter Thompson for his serv-
ice to this country, to Minnesota, and
to the White Earth Nation.∑
f
50TH ANNIVERSARY OF SPECIAL
OLYMPICS ALASKA
∑ Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, this
week we are celebrating the 50th anni-
versary of Special Olympics Alaska, an
organization that has done so much for
so many Alaskans living with intellec-
tual disabilities in my State and across
the globe.
The rise of the Special Olympics is
one of the world’s great stories. It dem-
onstrates both on the political and per-
sonal fronts what can happen when a
group of people get together to ensure
that everyone has the ability to par-
ticipate in sports and, furthermore, de-
velop skills and friendships that will
last them a lifetime.
The story of Special Olympics dates
back to the 1960s, when one woman, Eu-
nice Kennedy Shriver, decided to make
a difference. Mrs. Shriver had a sister,
Rosemary, who had an intellectual dis-
ability and with whom she was very
close. She knew that Rosemary’s dis-
ability shouldn’t hold her or anybody
else back from competing in sports and
fulfilling her dreams.
In the summer of 1968 in Chicago, Eu-
nice Shriver opened the first national
games for Special Olympics. One thou-
sand athletes from 26 States and Can-
ada competed in track & field and
swimming. Jump forward to today. Be-
cause of Mrs. Shriver’s vision and advo-
cacy for people with intellectual dis-
abilities, there are now nearly 5 mil-
lion Special Olympics’ athletes around
the world, and as many as 80,000 com-
petitions are held every year, including
in the great State of Alaska.
In 2001, Alaska hosted the Special
Olympics World Winter Games. Mrs.
Shriver said it was the best World Win-
ter Games in Special Olympics history.
That success was only possible because
of the hard working staff, board, volun-
teers, and athletes from the Special
Olympics Alaska organization and the
complete support of a caring, engaged
community.
Special Olympics Alaska will be cele-
brating its 50th anniversary this week-
end in conjunction with the Special
Olympics Alaska Summer Games. Hun-
dreds of athletes and unified partners
from across the State will gather in
Anchorage for 3 days of competition.
They have been dedicated to their
training in aquatics, basketball, gym-
nastics, powerlifting, and track & field,
and this weekend will strive for their
personal best and, no doubt, have a lot
of fun. There is no better place to see
the joy of competition and pure sports-
manship than at a Special Olympics
event.
My family is proud to be part of a
community that supports our Special
Olympics athletes and, to brag a little,
part of a State with a world-class
training center and program that is the
envy of many other States and nations.
Special Olympics Alaska’s success
would not be possible without the dedi-
cated support of so many Alaska fami-
lies and the passion our athletes have
for sports and this organization. Our
athletes inspire all of us. They show us
the true meaning of grit, determina-
tion, and perseverance. Our athletes
know, more than any of us, what Vince
Lombardi meant when he said, ‘‘It’s
not whether you get knocked down; it’s
whether you get up.’’
Congratulations again to all the ath-
letes, staff, board, and volunteers of
Special Olympics Alaska for an incred-
ible 50 years of serving the commu-
nity.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
In executive session the Presiding Of-
ficer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:51 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.023 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3249
June 5, 2019
and a withdrawal which were referred
to the appropriate committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate
proceedings.)
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:20 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bill, without amendment:
S. 1379. An act to reauthorize certain pro-
grams under the Public Health Service Act
and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act with respect to public health security
and all-hazards preparedness and response,
and for other purposes.
The message further announced that
the House has passed the following bill,
in which it requests the concurrence of
the Senate:
H.R. 6. An act to authorize the cancella-
tion of removal and adjustment of status of
certain aliens, and for other purposes.
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
The message also announced that the
Speaker has signed the following en-
rolled bill:
H.R. 2157. An act making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
The enrolled bill was subsequently
signed by the President pro tempore
(Mr. GRASSLEY).
The message further announced that
pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 945S(a), and the
order of the House of January 3, 2019,
the Speaker appoints the following in-
dividual on the part of the House of
Representatives to the Board of Visi-
tors to the United States Air Force
Academy: Ms. Gina Maria Ortiz Jones
of San Antonio, Texas.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bill was read the first
time:
H.R. 6. An act to authorize the cancella-
tion of removal and adjustment of status of
certain aliens, and for other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–1546. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Penthiopyrad; Pesticide Tolerances’’
(FRL 9993–11–OCSPP) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on June 4,
2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–1547. A communication from the Acting
Principal Deputy Director, Defense Pricing
and Contracting, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Defense Federal Acquisition
Regulation Supplement: Repeal of DFARS
Provision Regarding Availability of Speci-
fications and Standards Not Listed in the
Acquisition Streamlining and Standardiza-
tion Information System’’ ((RIN0750–AK42)
(DFARS Case 2019–D007)) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on June 3,
2019; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–1548. A communication from the Acting
Principal Deputy Director, Defense Pricing
and Contracting, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Defense Federal Acquisition
Regulation Supplement: Repeal of DFARS
Clause ‘Ordering Limitation’ ’’ ((RIN0750–
AK64) (DFARS Case 2019–D023)) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
June 3, 2019; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–1549. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Department of De-
fense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Indexing, Public In-
spection, and Federal Register Publication
of Department of Navy Directive and Other
Documents Affecting the Public’’ ((RIN0703–
AB02) (32 CFR Part 701) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on June 3,
2019; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–1550. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Department of De-
fense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘United States Navy
Regulations and Official Records’’ ((RIN0703–
AB06) (32 CFR Part 700) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on June 3,
2019; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–1551. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Department of De-
fense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Certifications and
Exemptions Under the International Regula-
tions for Preventing Collisions at Sea, 1972’’
((RIN0703–AB03) (32 CFR Part 706) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
June 3, 2019; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–1552. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Department of De-
fense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Special Rules with
Respect to Additional Station and Signal
Lights’’ ((RIN0703–AB04) (32 CFR Part 707) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on June 3, 2019; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–1553. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Department of De-
fense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Missing Persons Act’’
((RIN0703–AB07) (32 CFR Part 718) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
June 3, 2019; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–1554. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Department of De-
fense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Payments of
Amounts Due Mentally Incompetent Mem-
bers of the Naval Service’’ ((RIN0703–AB16)
(32 CFR Part 726) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on June 3, 2019; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–1555. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Department of De-
fense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Medical and Dental
Care for Eligible Persons at Navy Depart-
ment Facilities’’ ((RIN0703–AB09) (32 CFR
Part 728) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on June 3, 2019; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–1556. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Department of De-
fense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Non Naval Medical
and Dental Care’’ ((RIN0703–AB10) (32 CFR
Part 732) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on June 3, 2019; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–1557. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Department of De-
fense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Assistance to and
Support of Dependents; Paternity Com-
plaints’’ ((RIN0703–AA96) (32 CFR Part 733))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on June 3, 2019; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–1558. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Department of De-
fense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Garnishment of Pay
of Naval Military and Civilian Personnel for
Collection of Child Support and Alimony’’
((RIN0703–AA97) (32 CFR Part 734)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on June 3, 2019; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–1559. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Department of De-
fense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Disposition of Prop-
erty’’ ((RIN0703–AB05) (32 CFR Part 736)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on June 3, 2019; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–1560. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Department of De-
fense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Rules Governing
Public Access’’ ((RIN0703–AB00) (32 CFR Part
763)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on June 3, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
EC–1561. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Department of De-
fense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Contracting by Nego-
tiations’’ ((RIN0703–AB13) (48 CFR Part 5215))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on June 3, 2019; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–1562. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Department of De-
fense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Contract Administra-
tion’’ ((RIN0703–AB14) (48 CFR Part 5242)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on June 3, 2019; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–1563. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Department of De-
fense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Solicitation Provi-
sions and Contract Clauses’’ ((RIN0703–AB15)
(48 CFR Part 5252)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on June 3, 2019;
to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–1564. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Michigan, Permit
to Install Public Hearing Provisions’’ (FRL
No. 9994–65–Region 5) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on June 4, 2019;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
EC–1565. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Michigan; Final Authorization of
State Hazardous Waste Management Pro-
gram Revisions’’ (FRL No. 9994–75–Region 5)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:51 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.030 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3250 June 5, 2019
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on June 4, 2019; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
EC–1566. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘National Priorities List; Correction’’
(FRL No. 9994–86–OLEM) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on June 4,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–1567. A communication from the Acting
Commissioner, Social Security Administra-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the Ad-
ministration’s 2019 Annual Report of the
Supplemental Security Income Program; to
the Committee on Finance.
EC–1568. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of the Federal Trade Commission,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Commis-
sion’s fiscal year 2017 annual report relative
to the Federal Activities Inventory Reform
Act of 1998 (FAIR Act); to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–1569. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
Commission’s Semiannual Report of the In-
spector General and a Management Report
for the period from October 1, 2018 through
March 31, 2019; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–1570. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Transportation, transmitting pro-
posed legislation that would reauthorize the
Department’s pipeline safety program for fis-
cal years 2020–2023; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1571. A communication from the Senior
Attorney, Federal Railroad Administration,
Department of Transportation, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Training, Qualification, and Oversight for
Safety-Related Railroad Employees’’
(RIN2130–AC70) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on June 3, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1572. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Drawbridge Operation Regulation; Hacken-
sack River, Little Ferry, NJ’’ ((RIN1625–
AA09) (Docket No. USCG–2019–0108)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on June 3, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1573. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Spe-
cial Local Regulation; Annual Boyne Thun-
der Poker Run; Charlevoix, MI’’ ((RIN1625–
AA08) (Docket No. USCG–2018–1098)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on June 3, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1574. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Spe-
cial Local Regulation; Upper Potomac River,
National Harbor, MD’’ ((RIN1625–AA08)
(Docket No. USCG–2019–0203)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on June
3, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1575. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Lower Mississippi River, New
Orleans, LA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No.
USCG–2019–0243)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on June 3, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1576. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Ohio River Mile 0.0 to Mile 0.6,
Pittsburgh, PA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket
No. USCG–2019–0230)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on June 3, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–1577. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Cumberland River, Nashville,
TN’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–
2019–0344)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on June 3, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–1578. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Prom Fireworks Display; San
Francisco Bay, San Francisco, CA’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0398)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on June 3, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1579. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; July 4th Holiday Fireworks in
the Coast Guard Captain of the Port Mary-
land-National Capital Region Zone’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0193)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on June 3, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–1580. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Annual Events in the Captain
of the Port Buffalo Zone’’ ((RIN1625–AA00)
(Docket No. USCG–2019–0121)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on June
3, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–1581. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Amendments to the Marine Radar Observer
Refresher Training Regulations’’ ((RIN1625–
AC46) (Docket No. USCG–2018–0100)) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on June 3, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–1582. A communication from the Chief
of Staff, Media Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Electronic
Delivery of MVPD Communications; Mod-
ernization of Media Regulation Initiative’’
((FCC 18–166) (MB Docket Nos. 17–317 and 17–
105) received in the Office of the President of
the Senate on June 3, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, without amendment:
H.R. 1590. A bill to require an exercise re-
lated to terrorist and foreign fighter travel,
and for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–44).
EXECUTIVE REPORT OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive report of a
nomination was submitted:
By Mr. ISAKSON for the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
*James Byrne, of Virginia, to be Deputy
Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
*Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina (for
himself and Ms. SINEMA):
S. 1717. A bill to amend the Food and Nu-
trition Act of 2008 to make certain multi-
vitamin-mineral dietary supplements eligi-
ble for purchase with supplemental nutrition
assistance program benefits, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. BLUNT,
and Mr. YOUNG):
S. 1718. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to reinstate criminal penalties
for persons charging veterans unauthorized
fees, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. SINEMA (for herself and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. 1719. A bill to amend the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 to create an interdivi-
sional taskforce at the Securities and Ex-
change Commission for senior investors, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. ROUNDS (for himself, Mr. KING,
Mr. THUNE, Mr. ENZI, Mr. MANCHIN,
and Mr. BARRASSO):
S. 1720. A bill to amend the Federal Meat
Inspection Act and the Poultry Products In-
spection Act to allow the interstate sale of
State-inspected meat and poultry, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. KING,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. KAINE, Mr.
SANDERS, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. MERKLEY,
and Ms. SMITH):
S. 1721. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit gay and trans panic
defenses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr. TEST-
ER, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. KING, Mr.
ROUNDS, and Ms. SMITH):
S. 1722. A bill to amend the National Hous-
ing Act to authorize State-licensed apprais-
ers to conduct appraisals in connection with
mortgages insured by the FHA and to ensure
compliance with the existing appraiser edu-
cation and competency requirements, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr.
BENNET, Mr. BARRASSO, Ms. HASSAN,
Mr. CRAPO, and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 1723. A bill to amend the Omnibus Parks
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996 to
provide for the establishment of a Ski Area
Fee Retention Account; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself, Mr.
COTTON, Mr. SASSE, and Mrs.
BLACKBURN):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.044 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3251
June 5, 2019
S. 1724. A bill to amend the Controlled Sub-
stances Act and the Controlled Substances
Import and Export Act to modify the of-
fenses relating to fentanyl, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr.
YOUNG):
S. 1725. A bill to permit occupational
therapists to conduct the initial assessment
visit and complete the comprehensive assess-
ment under a Medicare home health plan of
care for certain rehabilitation cases; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. REED, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
BOOKER, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. WARREN,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. DURBIN, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. LEAHY, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, and Ms. HIRONO):
S. 1726. A bill to ensure high-income earn-
ers pay a fair share of Federal taxes; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. COONS (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. KAINE, and Mr. GARD-
NER):
S. 1727. A bill to establish the Partnership
Fund for Peace to promote joint economic
development and finance ventures between
Palestinian entrepreneurs and companies
and those in the United States and Israel to
improve economic cooperation and people-
to-people peacebuilding programs, and to
further shared community building, peaceful
coexistence, dialogue, and reconciliation be-
tween Israelis and Palestinians; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mrs.
CAPITO, Ms. COLLINS, and Mr. VAN
HOLLEN):
S. 1728. A bill to require the United States
Postal Service to sell the Alzheimer’s
semipostal stamp for 6 additional years; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. DAINES):
S. 1729. A bill to enhance consumer rights
relating to consumer report disputes by re-
quiring provision of documentation provided
by consumers; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mr. MUR-
PHY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
MERKLEY, and Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. 1730. A bill to direct the Administrator
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration to make grants to State and
local governments and nongovernmental or-
ganizations for purposes of carrying out cli-
mate-resilient living shoreline projects that
protect coastal communities by supporting
ecosystem functions and habitats with the
use of natural materials and systems, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. COTTON, and Mrs.
GILLIBRAND):
S. 1731. A bill to amend the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 to require the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board to maintain a
list of certain foreign issuers, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. WYDEN:
S. 1732. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide rules for the dis-
allowance and recapture of certain chari-
table contributions to colleges and univer-
sities, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Ms.
HARRIS, Ms. HIRONO, and Ms.
KLOBUCHAR):
S. 1733. A bill to limit the separation of
children from their parents or legal guard-
ians, to limit the detention of families and
children, to provide unaccompanied alien
children with access to counsel, to increase
the number of immigration judges and sup-
port staff, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CARPER:
S. 1734. A bill to amend the Coastal Zone
Management Act of 1972 to allow the District
of Columbia to receive Federal funding under
such Act, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. HARRIS,
Mr. WYDEN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. PE-
TERS, Ms. ROSEN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
and Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 1735. A bill to provide women with in-
creased access to preventive and life-saving
cancer screening; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. WARNER,
Mr. KAINE, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. DAINES, and Ms. BALD-
WIN):
S. 1736. A bill to prohibit the transfer of op-
erations and closure of Forest Service Job
Corps Civilian Conservation Centers; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
By Mr. MURPHY (for himself and Mr.
CASSIDY):
S. 1737. A bill to strengthen parity in men-
tal health and substance use disorder bene-
fits; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. PETERS:
S. 1738. A bill to require the Secretary of
Labor to take initiatives to measure the im-
pact of automation on the workforce in order
to inform workforce development strategies,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and
Mr. CRAPO):
S. 1739. A bill to enable projects that will
aid in the development and delivery of re-
lated instruction associated with apprentice-
ship and preapprenticeship programs that
are focused on serving the skilled technical
workforce at the National Laboratories and
certain facilities of the National Nuclear Se-
curity Administration, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. WYDEN:
S. 1740. A bill to move the United States
toward greater energy independence and se-
curity, to increase the flexibility, efficiency,
and reliability of the electric grid, to in-
crease the competitiveness of the United
States economy, to protect consumers, and
to improve the energy performance of the
Federal Government, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. REED, and Mr.
COONS):
S. 1741. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Energy to establish a program to advance
energy storage deployment by reducing the
cost of energy storage through research, de-
velopment, and demonstration, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
By Mr. WYDEN:
S. 1742. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Energy to establish certain demonstration
grant programs relating to the demonstra-
tion of advanced distribution systems, smart
water heaters, vehicle-to-grid integration,
and granular retail electricity pricing, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. CAR-
PER, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms. HARRIS,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. SMITH, Mr. SANDERS,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. BOOKER, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. BROWN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. REED, Mr.
SCHATZ, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. COONS,
Mr. DURBIN, Ms. STABENOW, Mr.
KAINE, Mrs. MURRAY, Ms. HASSAN,
Mr. WYDEN, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. UDALL,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. KING, Mr.
CARDIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. ROSEN,
Mr. CASEY, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr.
MURPHY, Mr. WARNER, Ms. SINEMA,
Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. WARREN, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mr. PETERS, Mr. TESTER, Mr.
JONES, and Ms. CANTWELL):
S. 1743. A bill to direct the President to de-
velop a plan for the United States to meet
its nationally determined contribution under
the Paris Agreement, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HARRIS, and Ms.
KLOBUCHAR):
S. 1744. A bill to provide lawful permanent
resident status for certain advanced STEM
degree holders, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms.
HARRIS, Mr. CARDIN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. WYDEN, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. CARPER, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms.
HIRONO, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. SCHATZ,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. HEINRICH, and Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO):
S. 1745. A bill to establish a cost of green-
house gases for carbon dioxide, methane, and
nitrous oxide to be used by Federal agencies,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr.
CASSIDY, and Mr. REED):
S. 1746. A bill to amend title 54, United
States Code, to authorize the provision of
technical assistance under the Preserve
America Program and to direct the Sec-
retary of the Interior to enter into partner-
ships with communities adjacent to units of
the National Park System to leverage local
cultural heritage tourism assets; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Ms.
BALDWIN, and Mrs. GILLIBRAND):
S. 1747. A bill to require that any trade
agreement eligible for expedited consider-
ation by Congress include enforceable stand-
ards requiring paying adequate wages and
maintaining sustainable production meth-
ods, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL:
S. 1748. A bill to decrease the frequency of
sports blackouts, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. SINEMA (for herself and Mr.
TILLIS):
S. 1749. A bill to clarify seasoning require-
ments for certain refinanced mortgage loans,
and for other purposes; considered and
passed.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. SANDERS, and Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO):
S. 1750. A bill to establish the Clean School
Bus Grant Program, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. CANTWELL:
S. 1751. A bill to amend the Reclamation
Project Act of 1939 to authorize pumped stor-
age hydropower development utilizing mul-
tiple Bureau of Reclamation reservoirs; to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.031 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3252 June 5, 2019
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr.
PERDUE, Mr. LEE, Mr. ROUNDS, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. JOHNSON, Mr. CRUZ, Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina, and Mrs.
BLACKBURN):
S. 1752. A bill to allow a State to submit a
declaration of intent to the Secretary of
Education to combine certain funds to im-
prove the academic achievement of students;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr.
HAWLEY):
S. 1753. A bill to promote accountability
and effective administration in the execu-
tion of laws by restoring the original under-
standing of the President’s constitutional
power to remove subordinates from office; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 27. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
transfer to the United Arab Emirates, United
Kingdom and Australia certain defense arti-
cles and services; to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 28. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
foreign military sale to the United Arab
Emirates of certain defense articles and
services; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 29. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
foreign military sale to the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia certain defense articles and
services; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 30. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
foreign military sale to the United Arab
Emirates of certain defense articles and
services; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 31. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
foreign military sale to the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia certain defense articles and
services; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 32. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
foreign military sale to the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia certain defense articles and
services; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 33. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
foreign military sale to the United Arab
Emirates of certain defense articles and
services; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 34. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
foreign military sale to the United Arab
Emirates of certain defense articles and
services; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 35. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
foreign military sale to the United Arab
Emirates of certain defense articles and
services; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 36. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
transfer to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland, the Kingdom of Spain, and the
Italian Republic of certain defense articles
and services; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 37. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
export to the United Arab Emirates, the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland, and the Republic of France of
certain defense articles and services; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 38. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
export to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland of certain defense articles
and services; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 39. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
export to the United Arab Emirates and
United Kingdom of certain defense articles,
including technical data and defense serv-
ices; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 40. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
export to India, Israel, Republic of Korea,
and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia of certain de-
fense articles, including technical data and
defense services; to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 41. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
export to the Government of Saudi Arabia
and the United Arab Emirates and the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland of technical data and defense
services; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 42. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
export to the United Arab Emirates and the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and North-
ern Ireland of certain defense articles, in-
cluding technical data and defense services;
to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 43. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
transfer to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia cer-
tain defense articles and services; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 44. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
retransfer of certain defense articles from
the United Arab Emirates to the Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 45. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
transfer to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia cer-
tain defense articles and services; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 46. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
transfer to the United Arab Emirates certain
defense articles and services; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 47. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
transfer to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia cer-
tain defense articles and services; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. REED):
S.J. Res. 48. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval of the proposed
transfer to the United Arab Emirates certain
defense articles and services; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself and Mrs.
FEINSTEIN):
S. Res. 231. A resolution condemning the
horrific anti-Semitic attack on the Chabad
of Poway Synagogue near San Diego, Cali-
fornia, on April 27, 2019; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and
Mr. RUBIO):
S. Res. 232. A resolution calling for the im-
mediate extradition or expulsion to the
United States of convicted felons Joanne
Chesimard and William Morales and all
other fugitives from justice who are receiv-
ing safe haven in Cuba in order to escape
prosecution or confinement for criminal of-
fenses committed in the United States; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr.
TILLIS, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. CORNYN,
Mr. COTTON, Mr. BRAUN, Mr. GRASS-
LEY, Ms. ERNST, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
HAWLEY, Mr. SCOTT of South Caro-
lina, and Mr. CRUZ):
S. Res. 233. A resolution recognizing the
importance of protecting freedom of speech,
thought, and expression at institutions of
higher education; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. SANDERS, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Ms. BALDWIN, and Mr. UDALL):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.034 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3253
June 5, 2019
S. Res. 234. A resolution affirming the
United States commitment to the two-state
solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,
and noting that Israeli annexation of terri-
tory in the West Bank would undermine
peace and Israel’s future as a Jewish and
democratic state; to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mrs.
BLACKBURN):
S. Res. 235. A resolution designating June
12, 2019, as ‘‘Women Veterans Appreciation
Day’’; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and
Mr. ROMNEY):
S. Res. 236. A resolution reaffirming the
strong partnership between Tunisia and the
United States and supporting the people of
Tunisia in their continued pursuit of demo-
cratic reforms; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr.
LEAHY, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Mr.
CRAPO):
S. Res. 237. A resolution supporting the
mission and goals of National Crime Vic-
tims’ Rights Week in 2019, which include in-
creasing public awareness of the rights,
needs, and concerns of, and services avail-
able to assist, victims and survivors of crime
in the United States; considered and agreed
to.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
MCCONNELL, Mr. MERKLEY, and Mr.
PAUL):
S. Res. 238. A resolution designating the
week of June 3 through June 9, 2019, as
‘‘Hemp History Week’’; considered and
agreed to.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. PE-
TERS, Mr. GARDNER, Mrs. SHAHEEN,
Mr. RISCH, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. CRAMER,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. CRAPO, Mr.
HEINRICH, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. KING, and
Ms. ERNST):
S. Res. 239. A resolution designating June
2019 as ‘‘Great Outdoors Month’’; considered
and agreed to.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr.
BROWN):
S. Con. Res. 19. A concurrent resolution
celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Apol-
lo 11 Moon landing; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 64
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) and the Senator
from Maine (Ms. COLLINS) were added
as cosponsors of S. 64, a bill to prohibit
brand name drug companies from com-
pensating generic drug companies to
delay the entry of a generic drug into
the market, and to prohibit biological
product manufacturers from compen-
sating biosimilar and interchangeable
companies to delay the entry of bio-
similar biological products and inter-
changeable biological products.
S. 120
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
120, a bill to protect victims of stalking
from gun violence.
S. 177
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
names of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) and the Senator from
Maine (Mr. KING) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 177, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Small
Business Act to expand the availability
of employee stock ownership plans in S
corporations, and for other purposes.
S. 191
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) and the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. LEAHY) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 191, a bill to direct the
Secretary of Defense to include in peri-
odic health assessments, separation
history and physical examinations, and
other assessments an evaluation of
whether a member of the Armed Forces
has been exposed to open burn pits or
toxic airborne chemicals, and for other
purposes.
S. 239
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 239, a bill to require the
Secretary of the Treasury to mint
coins in recognition of Christa
McAuliffe.
S. 299
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 299, a bill to amend title
VII of the Public Health Service Act to
reauthorize programs that support
interprofessional geriatric education
and training to develop a geriatric-ca-
pable workforce, improving health out-
comes for a growing and diverse aging
American population and their fami-
lies, and for other purposes.
S. 343
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 343, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to terminate the
credit for new qualified plug-in electric
drive motor vehicles and to provide for
a Federal highway user fee on alter-
native fuel vehicles.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
names of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. GRAHAM) and the Senator
from Nebraska (Mrs. FISCHER) were
added as cosponsors of S. 362, a bill to
amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to reform taxation of alcoholic
beverages.
S. 420
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 420, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to pro-
vide for the taxation and regulation of
marijuana products, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 504
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 504, a bill to amend title
36, United States Code, to authorize
The American Legion to determine the
requirements for membership in The
American Legion, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 512
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA), the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) and the Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY)
were added as cosponsors of S. 512, a
bill to establish an advisory office
within the Bureau of Consumer Protec-
tion of the Federal Trade Commission
to prevent fraud targeting seniors, and
for other purposes.
S. 560
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) and the Senator from
Iowa (Mr. GRASSLEY) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 560, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act, the Em-
ployee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974, and the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to require that group and
individual health insurance coverage
and group health plans provide cov-
erage for treatment of a congenital
anomaly or birth defect.
S. 569
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES), the Senator from South
Carolina (Mr. SCOTT), the Senator from
Indiana (Mr. BRAUN) and the Senator
from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 569, a bill to
direct the Secretary of Transportation
to issue regulations relating to com-
mercial motor vehicle drivers under
the age of 21, and for other purposes.
S. 622
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. CASSIDY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 622, a bill to amend title 10,
United States Code, to repeal the re-
quirement for reduction of survivor an-
nuities under the Survivor Benefit
Plan by veterans’ dependency and in-
demnity compensation, and for other
purposes.
S. 645
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
LEE) was added as a cosponsor of S. 645,
a bill to amend title 10, United States
Code, to provide for the inclusion of
homeschooled students in Junior Re-
serve Officer’s Training Corps units.
S. 646
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
LEE) was added as a cosponsor of S. 646,
a bill to amend title 10, United States
Code, to require a full military honors
ceremony for certain deceased vet-
erans, and for other purposes.
S. 747
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 747, a bill to reauthorize
the diesel emissions reduction pro-
gram, and for other purposes.
S. 785
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:00 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.036 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3254 June 5, 2019
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 785, a bill to improve mental
health care provided by the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs, and for other
purposes.
S. 866
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 866, a bill to amend part
B of the Individuals with Disabilities
Education Act to provide full Federal
funding of such part.
S. 867
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 867, a bill to protect students of
institutions of higher education and
the taxpayer investment in institu-
tions of higher education by improving
oversight and accountability of institu-
tions of higher education, particularly
for-profit colleges, improving protec-
tions for students and borrowers, and
ensuring the integrity of postsecondary
education programs, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 888
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 888, a bill to require a
standard financial aid offer form, and
for other purposes.
S. 970
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 970, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to provide
for the participation of physical thera-
pists in the National Health Service
Corps Loan Repayment Program, and
for other purposes.
S. 1007
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
names of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO), the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS), the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. CARDIN), the Senator from
Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN) and the
Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND) were added as cosponsors
of S. 1007, a bill to amend the Horse
Protection Act to designate additional
unlawful acts under the Act, strength-
en penalties for violations of the Act,
improve Department of Agriculture en-
forcement of the Act, and for other
purposes.
S. 1012
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1012, a bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to protect the confiden-
tiality of substance use disorder pa-
tient records.
S. 1015
At the request of Mr. BURR, the name
of the Senator from New Hampshire
(Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1015, a bill to require the Di-
rector of the Office of Management and
Budget to review and make certain re-
visions to the Standard Occupational
Classification System, and for other
purposes.
S. 1026
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1026, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow
workers an above-the-line deduction
for union dues and expenses and to
allow a miscellaneous itemized deduc-
tion for workers for all unreimbursed
expenses incurred in the trade or busi-
ness of being an employee.
S. 1039
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1039, a bill to limit the use of
funds for kinetic military operations in
or against Iran.
S. 1044
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
names of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and the Senator
from Michigan (Mr. PETERS) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1044, a bill to
impose sanctions with respect to for-
eign traffickers of illicit opioids, and
for other purposes.
S. 1049
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1049, a bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to ensure that members of
the Armed Forces and their families
have access to the contraception they
need in order to promote the health
and readiness of all members of the
Armed Forces, and for other purposes.
S. 1098
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1098, a bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to improve the transpor-
tation alternatives program, and for
other purposes.
S. 1102
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1102, a bill to promote security
and energy partnerships in the Eastern
Mediterranean, and for other purposes.
S. 1122
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1122, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to revise and
extend projects relating to children
and to provide access to school-based
comprehensive mental health pro-
grams.
S. 1142
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1142, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide tax credits
for energy storage technologies, and
for other purposes.
S. 1172
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1172, a bill to require full fund-
ing of part A of title I of the Elemen-
tary and Secondary Education Act of
1965 and the Individuals with Disabil-
ities Education Act.
S. 1173
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1173, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to reauthor-
ize the Emergency Medical Services for
Children program.
S. 1190
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
names of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) and the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) were added as cosponsors of S.
1190, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for pay-
ments for certain rural health clinic
and Federally qualified health center
services furnished to hospice patients
under the Medicare program.
S. 1191
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1191, a bill to reauthorize section 340H
of the Public Health Service Act to
continue to encourage the expansion,
maintenance, and establishment of ap-
proved graduate medical residency pro-
grams at qualified teaching health cen-
ters, and for other purposes.
S. 1209
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1209, a bill to amend the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
with respect to approval of abbreviated
new drug applications.
S. 1227
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1227, a bill to require the
Federal Trade Commission to study the
role of intermediaries in the pharma-
ceutical supply chain and provide Con-
gress with appropriate policy rec-
ommendations, and for other purposes.
S. 1300
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1300, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of the Treasury to mint a coin
in commemoration of the opening of
the National Law Enforcement Mu-
seum in the District of Columbia, and
for other purposes.
S. 1315
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1315, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to award
grants to establish, or expand upon,
master’s degree programs in orthotics
and prosthetics, and for other purposes.
S. 1414
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.038 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3255
June 5, 2019
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1414, a bill to provide bankruptcy relief
for student borrowers.
S. 1514
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1514, a bill to amend title
IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965
to require institutions of higher edu-
cation that participate in programs
under such title to distribute voter reg-
istration forms to students enrolled at
the institution, and for other purposes.
S. 1539
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1539, a bill to amend the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 to pro-
vide funding to secure nonprofit facili-
ties from terrorist attacks, and for
other purposes.
S. 1555
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1555, a bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to improve the Transition
Assistance Program for members of the
Armed Forces, and for other purposes.
S. 1565
At the request of Mr. HAWLEY, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1565, a bill to establish a Corps
of Engineers Flood Control Civilian
Advisory Council, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1642
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1642, a bill to increase the re-
cruitment and retention of school-
based mental health services providers
by low-income local educational agen-
cies.
S. 1667
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1667, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to treat
certain scholarships as earned income
for purposes of the kiddie tax.
S. 1677
At the request of Mr. PERDUE, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1677, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide author-
ity to postpone certain deadlines by
reason of State declared disasters or
emergencies.
S. 1687
At the request of Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
the names of the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. ISAKSON) and the Senator from Ar-
kansas (Mr. BOOZMAN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1687, a bill to amend
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to
provide a special rule for certain cas-
ualty losses of uncut timber.
S. 1712
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) was withdrawn as a co-
sponsor of S. 1712, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to en-
courage the development and use of
DISARM antimicrobial drugs, and for
other purposes.
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1712, supra.
S. RES. 80
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 80, a resolution establishing
the John S. McCain III Human Rights
Commission.
S. RES. 142
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. Res. 142, a resolution condemning
the Government of the Philippines for
its continued detention of Senator
Leila De Lima, calling for her imme-
diate release, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 217
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
names of the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. REED), the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. COONS), the Senator
from Delaware (Mr. CARPER) and the
Senator from Maryland (Mr. CARDIN)
were added as cosponsors of S. Res. 217,
a resolution expressing support for the
designation of June 7 through June 9,
2019, as ‘‘National Gun Violence Aware-
ness Weekend’’ and June 2019 as ‘‘Na-
tional Gun Violence Awareness Month’’
.
S. RES. 221
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
ISAKSON) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 221, a resolution recognizing the
30th anniversary of the Tiananmen
Square massacre and condemning the
intensifying repression and human
rights violations by the Chinese Com-
munist Party and the use of surveil-
lance by Chinese authorities, and for
other purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr.
TESTER, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. KING,
Mr. ROUNDS, and Ms. SMITH):
S. 1722. A bill to amend the National
Housing Act to authorize State-li-
censed appraisers to conduct appraisals
in connection with mortgages insured
by the FHA and to ensure compliance
with the existing appraiser education
and competency requirements, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1722
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘FHA Ap-
praiser Eligibility Expansion Act’’.
SEC. 2. APPRAISER STANDARDS.
(a) CERTIFICATION OR LICENSING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 202(g)(5) of the
National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1708(g)(5)) is
amended by striking subparagraphs (A) and
(B) and inserting the following:
‘‘(A) be certified or licensed by the State in
which the property to be appraised is lo-
cated;
‘‘(B) be knowledgeable of the Uniform
Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice
and the appraisal requirements established
by the Federal Housing Administration;
‘‘(C) meet the competency requirements
described in the Uniform Standards of Pro-
fessional Appraisal Practice before accepting
an assignment; and
‘‘(D) have demonstrated verifiable edu-
cation in the appraisal requirements estab-
lished by the Federal Housing Administra-
tion under this subsection, which shall in-
clude the completion of a course or seminar
that educates appraisers on those appraisal
requirements and is provided by the Federal
Housing Administration or is approved by
the Course Approval Program of the Ap-
praiser Qualification Board of the Appraisal
Foundation or a State appraiser certifying
and licensing agency.’’.
(2) APPLICATION.—Subparagraph (D) of sec-
tion 202(g)(5) of the National Housing Act (12
U.S.C. 1708(g)(5)), as added by paragraph (1),
shall not apply with respect to any appraiser
approved by the Federal Housing Adminis-
tration to conduct appraisals on mortgages
insured under title II of the National Hous-
ing Act (12 U.S.C. 1707 et seq.) on or before
the date on which the mortgagee letter or
other guidance or regulations take effect
under subsection (c)(3).
(b) COMPLIANCE WITH VERIFIABLE EDU-
CATION AND COMPETENCY REQUIREMENTS.—Ef-
fective beginning on the date on which the
mortgagee letter or other guidance or regu-
lations take effect under subsection (c)(3), no
appraiser may conduct an appraisal for any
mortgage insured under title II of the Na-
tional Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1707 et seq.) un-
less—
(1) the appraiser is in compliance with the
requirements under subparagraphs (A), (B),
and (C) section 202(g)(5) of such Act (12
U.S.C. 1708(g)(5)), as amended by subsection
(a); and
(2) if the appraiser was not approved to
conduct such appraisals before the date on
which the mortgagee letter or other guid-
ance or regulations take effect under sub-
section (c)(3), the appraiser is in compliance
with subparagraph (D) of such section
202(g)(5).
(c) IMPLEMENTATION.—Not later than the
240 days after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment shall issue a mortgagee letter or
other guidance or regulations that shall—
(1) implement the amendments made by
subsection (a);
(2) clearly set forth all of the specific re-
quirements under section 202(g)(5) of the Na-
tional Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1708(g)(5)), as
amended by this Act, for approval to conduct
appraisals under title II of such Act (12
U.S.C. 1707 et seq.), which shall include—
(A) providing that, before the effective
date of the mortgagee letter or other guid-
ance or regulations, a demonstration of com-
petency and completion of training that
meet the requirements under subparagraphs
(B), (C), and (D) of such section 202(g)(5), as
amended by subsection (a), shall be consid-
ered to fulfill the requirements under such
subparagraphs; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.040 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3256 June 5, 2019
(B) providing a method for appraisers to
demonstrate such prior competency and
completion; and
(3) take effect not later than the date that
is 180 days after the date on which the Sec-
retary issues the mortgagee letter or other
guidance or regulations.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself,
Ms. HARRIS, Ms. HIRONO, and
Ms. KLOBUCHAR):
S. 1733. A bill to limit the separation
of children from their parents or legal
guardians, to limit the detention of
families and children, to provide unac-
companied alien children with access
to counsel, to increase the number of
immigration judges and support staff,
and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today to introduce legislation that
will address one of the most pressing
immigration problems facing our na-
tion.
For the past decade, thousands of
families have fled violence and poverty
to seek asylum in the United States.
These families include vulnerable chil-
dren who must be kept safe once they
arrive in the United States. However,
since the beginning of the Trump Ad-
ministration, several new policies have
been implemented.
Most disconcerting is the Trump pol-
icy to separate young children, even
babies, from their mothers and fathers.
Dozens of these children spent days and
weeks in cages with nothing but thin
mats and aluminum blankets.
We have also learned that the Trump
Administration then deported many of
these parents, leaving the children to
be orphaned in this country. In fact,
hundreds of children who were sepa-
rated under this policy have now been
apart from their parents for many
months, without any immediate pros-
pects for reunification. These children
continue to experience extreme stress
that leaves them vulnerable to serious,
lifelong mental and physical health
problems.
Even when families are reunified
after months apart, some children no
longer recognize the mothers and fa-
thers. This is unconscionable. Today I
am introducing the Protecting Immi-
grant Families and Improving Immi-
gration Procedures Act, a bill that will
not only end the practice of separating
families at the border, but also put in
place other safeguards to protect these
at-risk groups.
The first component of the bill I am
introducing today is the full text of the
Keep Families Together Act, a bill I in-
troduced earlier this year to halt the
separation of families and which cur-
rently has more than 40 cosponsors.
The President claimed to end his pol-
icy of separation in June 2018. How-
ever, we have since learned that the
practice of separating families con-
tinues today.
In fact, the Inspector General for
Health and Human Services found that
thousands more children were sepa-
rated than the administration initially
revealed in June. Parents who try to
protect their children from violence
and poverty abroad should not be pun-
ished by having those children ripped
from their arms. Children should not
be subjected to severe trauma in the
interest of deterring migration.
Instead, families should be kept to-
gether and given an opportunity to
present their cases for asylum as has
been done for the past seven decades.
The second part of the bill I’m intro-
ducing today ensures that families
with children are not forced into pro-
longed, indefinite family detention in
order to remain together. Child welfare
experts, including the American Acad-
emy of Pediatrics and the United Na-
tions, have found that detention of this
sort has tremendous negative effects
on children’s health and welfare. This
bill guarantees that the Trump Admin-
istration cannot reverse the crucial
protections that are currently in place
under the Flores settlement agree-
ment.
The third piece of this bill would help
address the backlog in our immigration
courts while protecting the basic rights
of children. This part of the bill con-
tains provisions to provide adequate re-
sources to our immigration court sys-
tem. By adding additional judges and
staff, courts will be able to reduce the
crushing backlog of over a million
pending deportation cases.
The fourth component of this legisla-
tion is Senator HIRONO’s bill, the Fair
Day in Court for Kids Act, that pro-
vides counsel for unaccompanied chil-
dren. This is meant to ensure that
these children receive a meaningful op-
portunity to present their cases in im-
migration court. This is important be-
cause young children, including tod-
dlers, have been forced to represent
themselves in immigration court in re-
cent years. It is simply impossible for
children to understand their legal im-
migration status or rights, let alone
explain it to a judge.
This bill protects the most vulner-
able children in by providing counsel
when there is no parent or legal guard-
ian available. The final part of the bill
will ensure that immigration judges
can manage their caseloads and
prioritize the cases as needed. Cur-
rently, individuals in deportation pro-
ceedings who have been victims of
human trafficking or have assisted
with criminal prosecutions are often
eligible for visas that would protect
them from deportation. This bill would
allow immigration judges to close
these deportation cases quickly to pro-
tect these vulnerable individuals and
conserve scarce courtroom time. This
will be a crucial step in clearing the
backlog of pending immigration cases.
By taking these steps, we will help
put our immigration system on a path-
way to respect the basic rights of chil-
dren, particularly those who are fleeing
violence and poverty abroad. These
children are some of the most vulner-
able people in the world, and it is abso-
lutely essential that our legal system
should treat them with fairness and re-
spect.
These are goals that should be ap-
pealing to Democrats and Republicans
alike. I hope my colleagues will join
me in passing the Protecting Immi-
grant Families and Improving Immi-
gration Procedures Act.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the text of
the bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1733
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Protecting
Families and Improving Immigration Proce-
dures Act’’.
SEC. 2. ENSURING THAT FAMILIES REMAIN TO-
GETHER.
(a) LIMITATION ON THE SEPARATION OF FAMI-
LIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—An agent or officer of a
designated agency shall not remove a child
from his or her parent or legal guardian at or
near the port of entry or within 100 miles of
the border of the United States unless 1 of
the following situations has occurred:
(A) A State court, authorized under State
law—
(i) terminates the rights of a parent or
legal guardian;
(ii) determines that it is in the best inter-
ests of the child to be removed from his or
her parent or legal guardian, in accordance
with the Adoption and Safe Families Act of
1997 (Public Law 105–89); or
(iii) makes any similar determination that
is legally authorized under State law.
(B) An official from the State or county
child welfare agency with expertise in child
trauma and development determines that it
is in the best interests of the child to be re-
moved from his or her parent or legal guard-
ian because the child—
(i) is in danger of abuse or neglect at the
hands of the parent or legal guardian; or
(ii) is a danger to himself or herself or to
others.
(C) The Chief Patrol Agent or the Area
Port Director, in his or her official and
undelegated capacity, authorizes separation,
upon the recommendation by an agent or of-
ficer, based on a finding that—
(i) the child is a victim of trafficking or is
at significant risk of becoming a victim of
trafficking;
(ii) there is a strong likelihood that the
adult is not the parent or legal guardian of
the child; or
(iii) the child is in danger of abuse or ne-
glect at the hands of the parent or legal
guardian, or is a danger to himself or herself
or to others.
(2) PROHIBITION ON SEPARATION.—An agency
may not remove a child from a parent or
legal guardian solely for the policy goal of
deterring individuals from migrating to the
United States or for the policy goal of pro-
moting compliance with civil immigration
laws.
(3) DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED.—The Sec-
retary shall ensure that a separation based
upon a situation described in paragraph
(1)(C)—
(A) is documented in writing; and
(B) includes the reason for such separation
and the stated evidence for such separation.
(b) RECOMMENDATIONS FOR SEPARATION BY
AGENTS OR OFFICERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.042 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3257
June 5, 2019
the Secretary, in consultation with the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services, shall
develop training and guidance, with an em-
phasis on the best interests of the child,
childhood trauma, attachment, and child de-
velopment, for use by the agents and offi-
cers, in order to standardize separations au-
thorized under subsection (a)(1)(C).
(2) ANNUAL REVIEW.—Not less frequently
than annually, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall—
(A) review the guidance developed under
paragraph (1); and
(B) make recommendations to the Sec-
retary to ensure that such guidance con-
forms to current evidence and best practices
in child welfare, child development, and
childhood trauma.
(3) REQUIREMENT.—The guidance developed
under paragraph (1) shall incorporate the
presumptions described in subsection (c).
(4) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.—
(A) EVIDENCE-BASED.—The guidance and
training developed under this subsection
shall incorporate evidence-based practices.
(B) TRAINING REQUIRED.—
(i) INITIAL TRAINING.—All agents and offi-
cers of designated agencies, upon hire, and
annually thereafter, shall complete training
on adherence to the guidance under this sub-
section.
(ii) ANNUAL TRAINING.—All Chief Patrol
Agents and Area Port Directors, upon hire,
and annually thereafter, shall complete—
(I) training on adherence to the guidance
under this subsection; and
(II) 90 minutes of child welfare practice
training that is evidence-based and trauma-
informed.
(c) PRESUMPTIONS.—The presumptions de-
scribed in this subsection are the following:
(1) FAMILY UNITY.—There shall be a strong
presumption in favor of family unity.
(2) SIBLINGS.—To the maximum extent
practicable, the Secretary shall ensure that
sibling groups remain intact.
(3) DETENTION.—There is a presumption
that detention is not in the best interests of
families and children.
(d) REQUIRED POLICY FOR LOCATING SEPA-
RATED CHILDREN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the after the date of the enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall publish final
public guidance that describes, with speci-
ficity, the manner in which a parent or legal
guardian may locate a child who was sepa-
rated from the parent or legal guardian
under subsection (a)(1). In developing the
public guidance, the Secretary shall consult
with the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, immigrant advocacy organizations,
child welfare organizations, and State child
welfare agencies.
(2) WRITTEN NOTIFICATION.—The Secretary
shall provide each parent or legal guardian
who was separated, with written notice of
the public guidance to locate a separated
child.
(3) LANGUAGE ACCESS.—All guidance shall
be available in English and Spanish, and at
the request of the parent or legal guardian,
in the language or manner that is under-
standable by the parent or legal guardian.
(e) REQUIRED INFORMATION FOR SEPARATED
FAMILIES.—Not less frequently than month-
ly, the Secretary shall provide the parent or
legal guardian of a child who was separated—
(1) a status report on the monthly activi-
ties of the child;
(2) information about the education and
health of the child, including any medical
treatment provided to the child or medical
treatment recommended for the child;
(3) information about changes to the
child’s immigration status; and
(4) other information about the child, de-
signed to promote and maintain family re-
unification, as the Secretary determines in
his or her discretion.
(f) ANNUAL REPORT ON FAMILY SEPARA-
TION.—Not later than 1 year after the date of
the enactment of this Act, and annually
thereafter, the Secretary shall submit a re-
port to the committees of jurisdiction that
describes each instance in which a child was
separated from a parent or legal guardian
and includes, for each such instance—
(1) the relationship of the adult and the
child;
(2) the age and gender of the adult and
child;
(3) the length of separation;
(4) whether the adult was charged with a
crime, and if the adult was charged with a
crime, the type of crime;
(5) whether the adult made a claim for asy-
lum, expressed a fear to return, or applied
for other immigration relief;
(6) whether the adult was prosecuted if
charged with a crime and the associated out-
come of such charges;
(7) the stated reason for, and evidence in
support of, the separation;
(8) if the child was part of a sibling group
at the time of separation, whether the sib-
ling group has had physical contact and visi-
tation;
(9) whether the child was rendered an unac-
companied alien child; and
(10) other information in the Secretary’s
discretion.
(g) CLARIFICATION OF PARENTAL RIGHTS.—If
a child is separated from a parent or legal
guardian, and a State court has not made a
determination that the parental rights have
been terminated, there is a presumption
that—
(1) the parental rights remain intact; and
(2) the separation does not constitute an
affirmative determination of abuse or ne-
glect under Federal or State law.
(h) CLARIFICATION OF EXISTING LAW.—
(1) FEDERAL LAW.—Nothing in this section
may be interpreted to supersede or modify
Federal child welfare law, where applicable,
including the Adoption and Safe Families
Act of 1997 (Public Law 105–89).
(2) STATE LAW.—Nothing in this section
may be interpreted to supersede or modify
State child welfare laws, as applicable.
(i) GAO REPORT ON PROSECUTION OF ASY-
LUM SEEKERS.—
(1) STUDY.—The Comptroller General of the
United States shall conduct a study of the
prosecution of asylum seekers during the pe-
riod beginning on January 1, 2008 and ending
on December 31, 2018, including—
(A) the total number of persons who
claimed a fear of persecution, received a fa-
vorable credible fear determination, and
were referred for prosecution;
(B) an overview and analysis of the metrics
used by the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity and the Department of Justice to track
the number of asylum seekers referred for
prosecution;
(C) the total number of asylum seekers re-
ferred for prosecution, a breakdown and de-
scription of the criminal charges filed
against asylum seekers during such period,
and a breakdown and description of the con-
victions secured;
(D) the total number of asylum seekers
who were separated from their children as a
result of being referred for prosecution;
(E) a breakdown of the resources spent on
prosecuting asylum seekers during such pe-
riod, as well as any diversion of resources re-
quired to prosecute asylum seekers, and any
costs imposed on States and localities;
(F) the total number of asylum seekers
who were referred for prosecution and also
went through immigration proceedings; and
(G) the total number of asylum seekers re-
ferred for prosecution who were deported be-
fore going through immigration proceedings.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General shall submit a report to
Congress that describes the results of the
study conducted under paragraph (1).
SEC. 3. FLORES SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—A family unit may be de-
tained only in accordance with the holding
made in Flores v. Sessions et al. (9th Cir.
July 5, 2017; C.D. CA; July 24, 2015)) and the
stipulated settlement agreement as filed in
the United States District Court for the Cen-
tral District of California on January 17, 1997
(CV 85 4544 RJK) (commonly known as the
‘‘Flores settlement agreement’’).
(b) RULEMAKING.—Any regulation proposed
or promulgated to supersede the Flores set-
tlement agreement is null and void.
(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this Act may be construed—
(1) to affect the application of the Flores
settlement agreement to unaccompanied
alien children; or
(2) to abrogate the Flores settlement
agreement.
(d) REVIEW OF DETENTION DETERMINA-
TIONS.—The review of any determination by
the Secretary to detain an individual or fam-
ily unit under this section shall be in accord-
ance with all other provisions of law, hold-
ings (including any holding made in Flores v.
Sessions et al. (9th Cir. July 5, 2017; C.D. CA.
July 24, 2015)), consent decrees, and settle-
ment agreements (including the Flores set-
tlement agreement).
SEC. 4. ACCESS TO COUNSEL FOR UNACCOM-
PANIED ALIEN CHILDREN.
(a) APPOINTMENT OF COUNSEL.—In any re-
moval proceeding and in any appeal pro-
ceeding before the Attorney General from
any such removal proceeding, an unaccom-
panied alien child (as defined in section
462(g) of the Homeland Security Act on 2002
(6 U.S.C. 279(g))) shall be represented by Gov-
ernment-appointed counsel, at Government
expense.
(b) LENGTH OF REPRESENTATION.—Once a
child is designated as an unaccompanied
alien child under subsection (a)—
(1) the child shall be represented by coun-
sel at every stage of the proceedings from
the child’s initial appearance through the
termination of immigration proceedings; and
(2) any ancillary matters appropriate to
such proceedings even if the child reaches 18
years of age or is reunified with a parent or
legal guardian while the proceedings are
pending.
(c) NOTICE.—Not later than 72 hours after
an unaccompanied alien child is taken into
Federal custody, the child shall be notified
that he or she will be provided with legal
counsel in accordance with this section.
(d) WITHIN DETENTION FACILITIES.—The
Secretary shall ensure that unaccompanied
alien children have access to counsel inside
all detention, holding, and border facilities.
(e) PRO BONO REPRESENTATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—To the maximum extent
practicable, the Attorney General should
make every effort to utilize the services of
competent counsel who agree to provide rep-
resentation to such children under this sec-
tion without charge.
(2) DEVELOPMENT OF NECESSARY INFRA-
STRUCTURES AND SYSTEMS.—The Attorney
General shall develop the necessary mecha-
nisms—
(A) to identify counsel available to provide
pro bono legal assistance and representation
to children under this section; and
(B) to recruit such counsel.
(f) CONTRACTS; GRANTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General
may enter into contracts with, or award
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.053 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3258 June 5, 2019
grants to, nonprofit agencies with relevant
expertise in the delivery of immigration-re-
lated legal services to children to carry out
the responsibilities under this section, in-
cluding providing legal orientation, screen-
ing cases for referral, recruiting, training,
and overseeing pro bono attorneys.
(2) SUBCONTRACTS.—Nonprofit agencies
may enter into subcontracts with, or award
grants to, private voluntary agencies with
relevant expertise in the delivery of immi-
gration related legal services to children in
order to carry out this section.
(g) MODEL GUIDELINES ON LEGAL REPRESEN-
TATION OF CHILDREN.—
(1) DEVELOPMENT OF GUIDELINES.—The Ex-
ecutive Office for Immigration Review, in
consultation with voluntary agencies and
national experts, shall develop model guide-
lines for the legal representation of alien
children in immigration proceedings, which
shall be based on the children’s asylum
guidelines, the American Bar Association
Model Rules of Professional Conduct, and
other relevant domestic or international
sources.
(2) PURPOSE OF GUIDELINES.—The guidelines
developed under paragraph (1) shall be de-
signed to help protect each child from any
individual suspected of involvement in any
criminal, harmful, or exploitative activity
associated with the smuggling or trafficking
of children, while ensuring the fairness of
the removal proceeding in which the child is
involved.
(h) DUTIES OF COUNSEL.—Counsel provided
under this section shall—
(1) represent the unaccompanied alien
child in all proceedings and matters relating
to the immigration status of the child or
other actions involving the Department of
Homeland Security;
(2) appear in person for all individual mer-
its hearings before the Executive Office for
Immigration Review and interviews involv-
ing the Department of Homeland Security;
(3) owe the same duties of undivided loy-
alty, confidentiality, and competent rep-
resentation to the child as is due to an adult
client; and
(4) carry out other such duties as may be
proscribed by the Attorney General or the
Executive Office for Immigration Review.
SEC. 5. INCREASES IN IMMIGRATION JUDGES
AND SUPPORT STAFF.
(a) IMMIGRATION JUDGES.—The Attorney
General shall increase the total number of
immigration judges to adjudicate pending
cases and efficiently process future cases by
not fewer than 75 judges during fiscal year
2019.
(b) SUPPORT STAFF.—The Attorney General
shall—
(1) increase the total number of judicial
law clerks by 75 during fiscal year 2019; and
(2) increase the total number of support
staff for immigration judges, including legal
assistants and interpreters, by 300 during fis-
cal year 2019.
SEC. 6. DOCKET MANAGEMENT FOR RESOURCE
CONSERVATION.
Notwithstanding any opposition from the
Secretary, immigration judges may adminis-
tratively close cases, and the Board of Immi-
gration Appeals may remand cases for ad-
ministrative closure, if an individual in re-
moval proceedings—
(1) appears to be prima facie eligible for a
visa or other immigration benefit; and
(2) has a pending application for such ben-
efit before U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services or another appropriate agency.
SEC. 7. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) AGENT; OFFICER.—The terms ‘‘agent’’
and ‘‘officer’’ include contractors of the Fed-
eral Government.
(2) CHILD.—The term ‘‘child’’ means an in-
dividual who—
(A) has not attained 18 years of age; and
(B) has no permanent immigration status.
(3) COMMITTEES OF JURISDICTION.—The term
‘‘committees of jurisdiction’’ means—
(A) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
Senate;
(B) the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate;
(C) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives.
(4) DANGER OF ABUSE OR NEGLECT AT THE
HANDS OF THE PARENT OR LEGAL GUARDIAN.—
The term ‘‘danger of abuse or neglect at the
hands of the parent or legal guardian’’ shall
not mean migrating to or crossing the
United States border.
(5) DESIGNATED AGENCY.—The term ‘‘des-
ignated agency’’ means—
(A) the Department of Homeland Security;
(B) the Department of Justice; and
(C) the Department of Health and Human
Services.
(6) FINDING.—The term ‘‘finding’’ means an
individualized written assessment or screen-
ing by the trained agent or officer that in-
cludes a consultation with a child welfare
specialist, formalized as required under sub-
section (b)(3) and consistent with subsections
(c), (d), and (h).
(7) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Homeland Security.
By Mr. CARPER:
S. 1734. A bill to amend the Coastal
Zone Management Act of 1972 to allow
the District of Columbia to receive
Federal funding under such Act, and
for other purposes; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, today I
am once again introducing legislation
to allow the District of Columbia to re-
ceive funding and other benefits under
the Coastal Zone Management Act. I
am pleased to offer this companion leg-
islation to a bill, H.R. 2185, introduced
by the Congresswoman from the Dis-
trict of Columbia, ELEANOR HOLMES
NORTON.
Few of us realize that 70 percent of
the District is located within the
coastal plain. Similar to my State of
Delaware, sea level rise, upstream
sources of water, degraded infrastruc-
ture, and coastal subsidence mean that
the District could experience serious
future cleanup and repair costs due to
flooding—including damage to federal
property, which makes up almost 30
percent of the District. The National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion (NOAA) reports that since 1950,
nuisance flooding has increased by
more than 300% in the District. And,
since 2006, DC has experienced two 100-
year flooding events, and District offi-
cials estimate that a future 100-year
flood event could cause over $1.2 billion
in damages. Needless to say, these
events will become more and more
common due to climate change—in-
cluding rising sea levels—and coastal
subsidence.
The District of Columbia would use
funding from the Coastal Zone Manage-
ment Program for flood risk planning
and environmental restoration to pre-
vent and mitigate future flood damage.
At the same time, this work would help
to restore and conserve the District’s
coastal resources such as habitat, fish-
eries, and endangered species.
If included in the Coastal Zone Man-
agement Program, the District of Co-
lumbia would be eligible for $1 million
or more of federal funding annually to
assist in coastal flood-control projects,
to combat non-point source water pol-
lution, and to develop special area
management plans in areas experi-
encing environmental justice and/or
flooding issues.
The National Coastal Zone Manage-
ment Program, housed in NOAA, was
established through the passage of the
Federal Coastal Zone Management Act
of 1972. At the time, Congress recog-
nized the need to manage the effects of
increased growth in the nation’s coast-
al zone, which includes jurisdictions
bordering the oceans and the Great
Lakes.
There are currently 34 jurisdictional
coastal zone management programs,
including both States and territories.
In order for the District of Columbia to
participate in the program, Congress
must pass this amendment to the
Coastal Zone Management Act that
would include the District under the
definition of a ‘‘coastal state.’’
Mr. CARPER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1734
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Flood Pre-
vention Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. ELIGIBILITY OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
FOR FEDERAL FUNDING UNDER THE
COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT ACT
OF 1972.
Section 304(4) of the Coastal Zone Manage-
ment Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453(4)) is amend-
ed by inserting ‘‘the District of Columbia,’’
after ‘‘the term also includes’’.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. REED, and Mr.
COONS):
S. 1741. A bill to direct the Secretary
of Energy to establish a program to ad-
vance energy storage deployment by
reducing the cost of energy storage
through research, development, and
demonstration, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today I
am introducing a set of three bills that
will lower the cost of energy storage,
increase flexibility in the power grid,
and create a comprehensive set of
grant programs to advance develop-
ment of renewable energy technologies
throughout the country.
Currently, many energy tech-
nologies—like energy storage—com-
pete in unfair markets, making it hard
for new innovations to measure up to
more established technologies like
those of the fossil fuel industry. Con-
gress and the Department of Energy
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.053 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3259
June 5, 2019
can work hand-in-hand with industry
to level the playing field, using a fair,
tech-neutral approach when updating
the electricity system, to benefit the
American consumer.
My Reducing the Cost of Energy
Storage Act will provide funding to the
Department of Energy to research and
develop ways to lower the cost of en-
ergy storage technologies. Ultimately,
this bill will make it possible for re-
newable energy to be used on a more
reliable and affordable basis.
To protect the power supply from dis-
ruptions caused by natural disasters,
which can wipe out power to millions
of homes, my Flexible Grid Infrastruc-
ture Act will require the Department
of Energy to find and develop ways to
make the power grid more flexible and
responsive to these challenges. The bill
will also connect displaced workers to
training programs that will allow them
to transition to high-skill clean energy
jobs. Finally, this bill will provide
States and utilities with resources to
upgrade the flexibility and reliability
of the power grid.
In order to ensure private sector
growth in distributed energy tech-
nologies, my Distributed Energy Dem-
onstration Act will create competitive,
cost-share grant programs for new
small-scale, grid-connected projects,
such as rooftop solar panels, hot water
heaters, electric vehicles, and modern-
ized utility pricing technologies.
Together or apart, these bills will
promote a more flexible electricity
grid that can respond to power disrup-
tions from natural disasters and ensure
reliable, low-cost electricity for con-
sumers now and in the future. They
will also lower costs for energy storage
technologies that make renewable en-
ergy more reliable and cost-effective,
boost funding for cutting-edge re-
search, and reward State and private
sector innovations, which will make re-
newable energy more reliable and
affordab1e for U.S. energy consumers.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself. Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HARRIS, and
Ms. KLOBUCHAR):
S. 1744. A bill to provide lawful per-
manent resident status for certain ad-
vanced STEM degree holders, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD. There
being no objection, the text of the bill
was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
S. 1744
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Keep STEM
Talent Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. LAWFUL PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS
FOR CERTAIN ADVANCED STEM DE-
GREE HOLDERS.
(a) ALIENS NOT SUBJECT TO DIRECT NUMER-
ICAL LIMITATIONS.—Section 201(b)(1) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1151(b)(1)) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(F)(i) Aliens who—
‘‘(I) have earned a degree in a STEM field
at the master’s level or higher while phys-
ically present in the United States from a
United States institution of higher edu-
cation (as defined in section 101(a) of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1001(a))) accredited by an accrediting entity
recognized by the Department of Education;
‘‘(II) have an offer of employment from, or
are employed by, a United States employer
in a field related to such degree at a rate of
pay that is higher than the median wage
level for the occupational classification in
the area of employment, as determined by
the Secretary of Labor; and
‘‘(III) are admissible pursuant to an ap-
proved labor certification under section
212(a)(5)(A)(i).
‘‘(ii) In this subparagraph, the term ‘STEM
field’ means a field of science, technology,
engineering, or mathematics described in the
most recent version of the Classification of
Instructional Programs of the Department of
Education taxonomy under the summary
group of—
‘‘(I) computer and information sciences
and support services;
‘‘(II) engineering;
‘‘(III) mathematics and statistics;
‘‘(IV) biological and biomedical sciences;
‘‘(V) physical sciences;
‘‘(VI) agriculture sciences; or
‘‘(VII) natural resources and conservation
sciences.’’.
(b) PROCEDURE FOR GRANTING IMMIGRATION
STATUS.—Section 204(a)(1)(F) of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1154(a)(1)(F)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘203(b)(2)’’ and all that fol-
lows through ‘‘Attorney General’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘203(b)(2), 203(b)(3), or
201(b)(1)(F) may file a petition with the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security’’.
(c) DUAL INTENT FOR F NONIMMIGRANTS
SEEKING ADVANCED STEM DEGREES AT
UNITED STATES INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDU-
CATION.—Notwithstanding sections
101(a)(15)(F)(i) and 214(b) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1101(a)(15)(F)(i), 1184(b)), an alien who is a
bona fide student admitted to a program in
a STEM field (as defined in section
201(b)(1)(F)(ii)) for a degree at the master’s
level or higher at a United States institution
of higher education (as defined in section
101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1001(a))) accredited by an accrediting
entity recognized by the Department of Edu-
cation may obtain a student visa or extend
or change nonimmigrant status to pursue
such degree even if such alien intends to
seek lawful permanent resident status in the
United States.
By Ms. SINEMA (for herself and
Mr. TILLIS):
S. 1749. A bill to clarify seasoning re-
quirements for certain refinanced
mortgage loans, and for other purposes;
considered and passed.
S. 1749
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Protecting
Affordable Mortgages for Veterans Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. SEASONING REQUIREMENTS FOR CER-
TAIN REFINANCED MORTGAGE
LOANS.
(a) GINNIE MAE.—Section 306(g)(1) of the
National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)(1)) is
amended by striking the second sentence.
(b) VETERANS LOANS.—Section 3709(c) of
title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in the matter before paragraph (1), by
striking ‘‘is refinanced’’ and inserting ‘‘is a
refinance’’; and
(2) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and
inserting the following new paragraphs:
‘‘(1) the date on which the borrower has
made at least six consecutive monthly pay-
ments on the loan being refinanced; and
‘‘(2) the date that is 210 days after the first
payment due date of the loan being refi-
nanced.’’.
(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this Act may be construed to restrict or oth-
erwise modify the authorities of the Govern-
ment National Mortgage Association.
By Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr.
HAWLEY):
S. 1753. A bill to promote account-
ability and effective administration in
the execution of laws by restoring the
original understanding of the Presi-
dent’s constitutional power to remove
subordinates from office; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, President
Trump was famous for many things
even before he was elected. One of
those things was the catch-phrase
‘‘You’re fired,’’ which he popularized
on his reality TV show ‘‘The Appren-
tice.’’
This is a relatively commonplace
phrase. It is something that most per-
sons are familiar with, but it is not
surprising that the phrase would have
so much appeal for a television audi-
ence. I think the reason has something
to do with the fact that it carries a cer-
tain power and resonance with it be-
cause the person who has the authority
to use it within any organization is,
generally speaking, a person who gets
to call the shots. It is emblematic of
executive control and, therefore, the
ability to get things done within an or-
ganization.
That is not to say that good leaders
get their way solely or even primarily
by threatening to fire people who work
for them. Effective leadership, more
often than not, requires what are some-
times called soft leadership skills.
But the fact, nonetheless, remains
that the head of an organization must
always have hanging in reserve, sort of
like an employer Damoclean sword—
the absolute right to terminate a sub-
ordinate.
It is the ultimate and essential back-
stop that enforces and reifies an execu-
tive’s power to make decisions. This is
true for pretty much any leader,
whether that leader happens to be the
CEO of a corporation, the coach of a
sports team, or a general out on the
field of battle.
Yet, remarkably, under our laws, the
President of the United States lacks
authority over many high-ranking offi-
cers within the executive branch. De-
spite its elemental association with
Executive power, Congress and the
courts have time and again deprived
the President of the ability to remove
his subordinates at will.
These restrictions often take the
form of statutory for-cause removal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.055 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3260 June 5, 2019
protections, such as the provision of
the Federal Trade Commission Act
that provides that Commissioners may
be removed only ‘‘for inefficiency, ne-
glect of duty, or malfeasance in of-
fice.’’
In enacting laws like this, Congress
has cast aside the original meaning of
the Constitution and thereby eroded a
critical safeguard of American free-
dom. As anyone who has studied the
Constitution or constitutional law, for
that matter, can guess, my reference to
the FTC’s for-cause protection is not
accidental.
That statute formed the basis of the
lawsuit that culminated in the 1935 de-
cision by the Supreme Court in a case
called Humphrey’s Executor, in which
the Supreme Court held for the first
time that Congress may impose restric-
tions on the President’s removal
power.
In so holding, the Supreme Court
overruled its earlier precedent in
Myers v. United States, which had held
that Congress may not limit the Presi-
dent’s ability to remove principal offi-
cers within the Federal Government,
but Humphrey’s Executor didn’t simply
overrule Myers. Rather, as Justice
Scalia later wrote, ‘‘it gutt[ed], in six
quick pages devoid of textual or histor-
ical precedent. . . . a carefully re-
searched and reasoned 70-page opin-
ion.’’ That juxtaposition alone tells
you what you need to know about these
decisions. One had constitutional text
and original understanding and histor-
ical precedent behind it. The other was
constitutional law by judicial fiat.
Article II of the Constitution unques-
tionably establishes a unitary execu-
tive. The vesting clause provides that
‘‘the executive power shall be vested in
a President of the United States of
America.’’
As Alexander Hamilton explained it
in Federalist No. 70, placing the total-
ity of the Executive power in a single
individual was no happenstance. It was
no mistake. It wasn’t just sort of some
fluke. The delegates to the Constitu-
tional Convention recognized that a
unified executive was essential to en-
sure energy and accountability in the
execution of the laws, and the Con-
stitution was drafted accordingly, con-
sistent with this understanding.
Without the authority to supervise
and direct, and, yes, ultimately fire his
subordinates, it is impossible for the
President to fulfill his duty imposed by
article II to ‘‘take care that the laws
be faithfully executed.’’
The Founders also understood that
the President’s removal power was the
bedrock of his authority to oversee the
executive branch. In a famous debate
during the First Congress, James Madi-
son argued that ‘‘if any power whatso-
ever is in its nature Executive, it is the
power of appointing, overseeing, and
controlling those who execute the
laws.’’
He went on to note that ‘‘if the Presi-
dent should possess alone the power of
removal from office, those who are em-
ployed in the execution of the law will
be in their proper situation, and the
chain of dependence be preserved;
[they] will depend, as they ought, on
the President, and the President on the
community.’’
Madison’s argument prevailed, and
the First Congress declined, on con-
stitutional grounds, for the reasons ar-
ticulated by James Madison himself, to
create for-cause removal protections
for the heads of the newly established
executive branch departments. They
considered it; Madison raised, very per-
suasively, this constitutional argu-
ment against it; and then they voted it
down. That was the original under-
standing of the removal power, and it
predominated for nearly 150 years after
the Founding.
Since Humphrey’s Executor and its
radical departure from the original un-
derstanding in 1935, for-cause removal
protections, both statutory and other-
wise, have, sadly, proliferated, giving
rise to a vast, headless, out-of-control
branch of government, a fourth branch
of government, if you will, that exists
beyond the control of the President
and is therefore unaccountable to the
people.
In fact, by some estimations, there
are over 80 so-called independent agen-
cies within the executive branch. These
executive branch agencies that we refer
to somehow as independent are en-
trusted with regulating immense
swaths of American life—from com-
petition policy and workplace safety
regulations to labor relations and even
securities laws. They make rules; they
adjudicate rights; and they enforce
laws. The potential for abuse is tre-
mendous; the inconsistency with the
republican principles this country was
founded on, obvious.
Now, there are a lot of people here
who like the sound of the term ‘‘inde-
pendent agency,’’ and they might sup-
pose, incorrectly, that an agency that
is independent, that is beyond the con-
trol of the President of the United
States to oversee, that that is some-
how a good thing.
On closer inspection, we discover
that quite the opposite is true. When
we insulate someone from Presidential
oversight, what we are doing is taking
the American people out of the picture.
There is a reason why we have elec-
tions every 4 years, and those elections
focus on the election of a President. It
is so there is some chain of account-
ability between the people and the ex-
ecutive branch of government.
That has become more important,
not less, over the last few decades as
we have created more and more execu-
tive branch agencies and we have en-
trusted those agencies with more and
more power. It has never been more im-
portant than it is today to make sure
the people are connected. If you dis-
connect the American people by insu-
lating them from the political process,
then you have a whole group of people
who these days are charged not just
with administrating the laws but, in
some cases, with effectively making it
and interpreting it, and you are taking
them beyond the supervision that
would otherwise be appropriate by the
President of the United States within
the executive branch of government.
In their fight against British tyr-
anny, the Patriots of the American
Revolution rallied behind the principle
of ‘‘no taxation without representa-
tion.’’ Today we are faced with a some-
what different threat to freedom, as
Chief Justice Roberts wrote in a case
just a few years ago. ‘‘The growth of
the Executive Branch, which now
wields vast power and touches almost
every aspect of daily life, heightens the
concern that it may slip from the Ex-
ecutive’s control, and thus from that of
the people.’’
In other words, as Chief Justice Rob-
erts explained, when you take this
power away from the President, you
are taking it away from the people.
The people lose their input on and
their control over these very important
functions of what is appropriately de-
scribed as the people’s government.
The concern is further compounded
by the existence of independent agen-
cies that are, by law, divorced from
any Presidential control. As a result,
in this new fight against tyranny, our
watchword perhaps must be ‘‘no regu-
lation without representation.’’ That is
why I have spearheaded the Article I
Project and why I supported legislation
such as the REINS Act and the Separa-
tion of Powers Restoration Act that
would bring the Federal regulatory ap-
paratus, as we know it, to heel.
Of course, more is needed. We need to
not only reform Congress’s relationship
with the administrative state but the
President’s as well. To that end, I am
introducing new legislation called the
Take Care Act. The bill would restore
the unitary executive envisioned by
the Founders and, in fact, required by
the Constitution by stripping away all
existing for-cause removal protections
from the so-called independent agen-
cies. It would also limit Congress’s
ability to create for-cause protections
by implication in the future and take
other critical steps to fortify the Presi-
dent’s directive authority.
Simply put, the Take Care Act would
eliminate the headless fourth branch of
government, empower the President to
ensure faithful execution of the law,
and make the bureaucracy accountable
to the people again. Importantly, the
Take Care Act would not cause the
work of administrative agencies to be-
come subject to the unmitigated whims
and caprices of a President. There is
still very real, very meaningful polit-
ical constraints, including the Senate’s
advise and consent role, that would en-
sure, as they do now, in areas outside
of these so-called independent agen-
cies, that the executive officers can
fulfill their congressionally assigned
duties without undue interference.
In other words, although there are
some so-called independent agencies as
to which the President has no removal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.059 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3261
June 5, 2019
power, there are a whole lot that are
not. The President’s Cabinet and many
other positions within the Federal Gov-
ernment involve people who are ap-
pointed by the President, confirmed by
the Senate, and who serve at the pleas-
ure of the President who can be fired at
any moment for any reason the Presi-
dent might deem appropriate.
Nevertheless, that does not mean
that Presidents go around just firing
people arbitrarily because Presidents
understand that there is a political
cost to doing that. We have seen in re-
cent years, and we have seen earlier in
American history, how Presidents,
even when they have disagreements
with members of their Cabinet or other
people who serve at the pleasure of the
President—Presidents are still reluc-
tant to fire people because there are
political costs attached to that, and es-
pecially where Congress perceives
there might be a partisan political mo-
tive in mind, Congress may well take
action.
In the case of the Senate, it almost
inevitably will at least threaten, if not
carry out the threat, to hold up future
confirmations of Presidential ap-
pointees if Presidents abuse this power.
So it simply isn’t true to say that
this would open the floodgates and
cause all Presidents to just fire people
arbitrarily without hesitation in the
future. What it would mean is that our
elected President would have the power
to represent the people and to oversee
the executive branch of the Federal
Government just as article II already
requires.
So all this bill would do would be to
rescind and limit unconstitutional re-
strictions on the President’s removal
power, and while it may be more con-
venient to limit this power by statute,
convenience and efficiency are not the
primary objectives or the hallmarks of
a democratic government, as the Su-
preme Court has repeatedly reminded
us.
Another famous catchphrase popular-
ized by an American President is ‘‘the
buck stops here,’’ which President Tru-
man, of course, displayed on a placard
on his desk in the Oval Office at the
White House during his Presidency.
What it means is, the President is the
final decision maker within the execu-
tive branch, and, therefore, bears the
sole and ultimate responsibility for
executing the laws.
In order to fulfill that very special,
sacred, important responsibility, the
President must have plenary power to
direct the President’s subordinates in
how they carry out their assigned
tasks and, if necessary, fire them. That
is what the Constitution and, indeed,
common sense require. By restoring
the original understanding and restor-
ing the removal power to the Presi-
dency, the Take Care Act would give
the President this authority.
By taking this step, we would re-
empower the American people with
that which is rightfully theirs to begin
with.
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 231—CON-
DEMNING THE HORRIFIC ANTI-
SEMITIC ATTACK ON THE
CHABAD OF POWAY SYNAGOGUE
NEAR SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA,
ON APRIL 27, 2019
Ms. HARRIS (for herself and Mrs.
FEINSTEIN) submitted the following res-
olution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 231
Whereas on April 27, 2019, a 19-year-old
armed with an assault rifle attacked the
Chabad of Poway Synagogue near San Diego,
California, while congregants were cele-
brating the last day of the Passover holiday;
Whereas the gunman wounded Almog
Peretz, Noya Dahan, and Rabbi Yisroel Gold-
stein;
Whereas Lori Gilbert Kaye, a founding
member of the congregation, was killed
while bravely saving the life of Rabbi Gold-
stein;
Whereas, in describing the attack, Rabbi
Goldstein said—
(1) ‘‘. . . Lori took the bullet for all of us.
She died to protect all of us’’; and
(2) ‘‘This is Lori. This is her legacy, and
her legacy will continue. It could have been
so much worse.’’;
Whereas Oscar Stewart, a veteran of the
Army, and Jonathan Morales, a border pa-
trol agent, bravely fought back, running to-
ward the perpetrator of the attack;
Whereas law enforcement and first re-
sponders, including the San Diego Sheriff’s
Department, acted quickly and profes-
sionally to respond to the attack and care
for the victims;
Whereas the perpetrator of the attack, who
expressed White supremacist and White na-
tionalist sentiments, entered the synagogue
shouting anti-Semitic slurs;
Whereas the attack occurred 6 months to
the day after the attack on the Tree of Life
Synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
which killed 11 innocent people and injured 6
others, including 4 law enforcement officers;
Whereas anti-Semitism is an age-old form
of prejudice, discrimination, persecution,
and marginalization of Jewish people that
runs counter to the values of the United
States;
Whereas, according to an annual audit con-
ducted by the Anti-Defamation League, in
2018—
(1) anti-Semitic incidents remained at
near-historic levels in the United States; and
(2) the number of anti-Semitic incidents
with known connections to extremists or in-
spired by extremist ideology reached the
highest levels since 2004;
Whereas, in a manifesto attributed to the
perpetrator of the attack, the perpetrator of
the attack claimed responsibility for the
burning of a mosque in Escondido, Cali-
fornia, and demonstrated anti-Muslim bias;
Whereas growing White supremacy and
White nationalism is—
(1) a threat to the security of the United
States; and
(2) antithetical to the American values of
dignity and respect of all people, including
Jewish, Muslim, Black, Latino, Asian Amer-
ican, immigrant, and LGBTQ peoples; and
Whereas hate has no place in the United
States and there is a duty to condemn all
forms of hatred: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) condemns the horrific anti-Semitic at-
tack on the Chabad of Poway Synagogue
near San Diego, California, on April 27, 2019,
which killed 1 individual and injured 3 oth-
ers;
(2) honors the memory of Lori Gilbert
Kaye, who was killed in the attack;
(3) expresses hope for a full and speedy re-
covery for the individuals injured in the at-
tack;
(4) offers heartfelt condolences to—
(A) the Chabad of Poway congregation;
(B) the San Diego area Jewish community;
and
(C) the friends and family of those individ-
uals affected by the tragedy;
(5) recognizes the dedicated service of the
law enforcement emergency response offi-
cials and medical professionals who re-
sponded to the attack and cared for the vic-
tims; and
(6) reaffirms the commitment of the
United States to condemn—
(A) anti-Semitism;
(B) White supremacy;
(C) White nationalism; and
(D) all forms of hatred.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 232—CALL-
ING FOR THE IMMEDIATE EX-
TRADITION OR EXPULSION TO
THE UNITED STATES OF CON-
VICTED FELONS JOANNE
CHESIMARD AND WILLIAM MO-
RALES AND ALL OTHER FUGI-
TIVES FROM JUSTICE WHO ARE
RECEIVING SAFE HAVEN IN
CUBA IN ORDER TO ESCAPE
PROSECUTION OR CONFINEMENT
FOR CRIMINAL OFFENSES COM-
MITTED IN THE UNITED STATES
Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and Mr.
RUBIO) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 232
Whereas Joanne Chesimard, one of the
most wanted terrorists of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation, was convicted of the
May 2, 1973, murder of New Jersey State
Trooper Werner Foerster;
Whereas William Morales, leader and chief
bomb-maker for the terrorist organization
Fuerzas Armadas de Liberación Nacional,
committed numerous terrorist attacks on
United States soil, including the bombings of
Fraunces Tavern in lower Manhattan on
January 25, 1975, and the Mobil Oil employ-
ment office in New York on August 3, 1977,
which killed 5 people and injured over 60 oth-
ers;
Whereas more than 70 fugitives from the
United States, charged with offenses ranging
from hijacking to kidnapping to drug of-
fenses to murder, are believed to be receiving
safe haven in Cuba;
Whereas other fugitives from United
States justice who are receiving safe haven
in Cuba include Charles Hill, wanted for the
killing of a State trooper in New Mexico, and
Victor Manuel Gerena, on the list of the 10
most wanted fugitives of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation for carrying out a brutal
robbery of a Wells Fargo armored car in Con-
necticut;
Whereas, according to the Treaty Between
the United States and Cuba for the Mutual
Extradition of Fugitives from Justice, signed
at Washington April 6, 1904 (33 Stat. 2265),
and the Additional Extradition Treaty Be-
tween the United States and Cuba, signed at
Havana, January 14, 1926 (44 Stat. 2392), the
United States has a bilateral extradition
treaty with Cuba;
Whereas, in January 2002, the Government
of Cuba deported to the United States Jesse
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:46 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.059 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3262 June 5, 2019
James Bell, a United States fugitive wanted
on drug charges;
Whereas, in March 2002, the Government of
Cuba extradited drug trafficker Luis
Hernando Gomez Bustamante to Colombia,
and Gomez Bustamante was subsequently ex-
tradited to the United States in July 2007 to
face drug trafficking charges; and
Whereas it is imperative that the Govern-
ment of Cuba abide by its extradition treaty
with the United States and immediately ex-
tradite or expel to the United States those
legally indicted or convicted of serious
criminal offenses in the United States: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) calls for the immediate extradition or
expulsion to the United States of convicted
felons Joanne Chesimard and William Mo-
rales and all other fugitives from justice who
are receiving safe haven in Cuba in order to
escape prosecution or confinement for crimi-
nal offenses committed in the United States;
(2) urges the international community to
continue to press for the immediate extra-
dition or expulsion of all fugitives from jus-
tice who are receiving safe haven in Cuba;
and
(3) calls on the Secretary of State and the
Attorney General to continue to press for
the immediate extradition or expulsion from
Cuba or from any other country of all fugi-
tives from United States justice so that they
may be tried and, if convicted, serve out
their sentences.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 233—RECOG-
NIZING THE IMPORTANCE OF
PROTECTING FREEDOM OF
SPEECH, THOUGHT, AND EX-
PRESSION AT INSTITUTIONS OF
HIGHER EDUCATION
Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr.
TILLIS, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. CORNYN, Mr.
COTTON, Mr. BRAUN, Mr. GRASSLEY, Ms.
ERNST, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. HAWLEY, Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina, and Mr. CRUZ)
submitted the following resolution;
which was referred to the Committee
on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 233
Whereas the First Amendment to the Con-
stitution of the United States guarantees
that ‘‘Congress shall make no law . . .
abridging the freedom of speech’’;
Whereas, in Healy v. James, 408 U.S. 169
(1972), the Supreme Court of the United
States held that the First Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States applies in
full force on the campuses of public colleges
and universities;
Whereas, in Widmar v. Vincent, 454 U.S. 263
(1981), the Supreme Court of the United
States observed that ‘‘the campus of a public
university, at least for its students, pos-
sesses many of the characteristics of a public
forum’’;
Whereas lower Federal courts have also
held that the open, outdoor areas of the cam-
puses of public colleges and universities are
public forums;
Whereas section 112(a)(2) of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1011a(a)(2))
contains a sense of Congress noting that ‘‘an
institution of higher education should facili-
tate the free and open exchange of ideas’’,
‘‘students should not be intimidated, har-
assed, discouraged from speaking out, or dis-
criminated against’’, ‘‘students should be
treated equally and fairly’’, and ‘‘nothing in
this paragraph shall be construed to modify,
change, or infringe upon any constitu-
tionally protected religious liberty, freedom,
expression, or association’’;
Whereas, despite the clarity of the applica-
ble legal precedent and the vital importance
of protecting public colleges in the United
States as true ‘‘marketplaces of ideas’’, the
Foundation for Individual Rights in Edu-
cation has found that approximately 1 in 10
of the top colleges and universities in the
United States quarantine student expression
to so-called ‘‘free speech zones’’, and a sur-
vey of 466 schools found that almost 30 per-
cent maintain severely restrictive speech
codes that clearly and substantially prohibit
constitutionally protected speech;
Whereas, according to the American Civil
Liberties Union (ACLU), ‘‘Speech codes
adopted by government-financed state col-
leges and universities amount to government
censorship, in violation of the Constitution.
And the ACLU believes that all campuses
should adhere to First Amendment prin-
ciples because academic freedom is a bedrock
of education in a free society.’’;
Whereas the University of Chicago, as part
of its commitment ‘‘to free and open inquiry
in all matters’’, issued a statement in which
‘‘it guarantees all members of the University
community the broadest possible latitude to
speak, write, listen, challenge, and learn’’,
and more than 50 university administrations
and faculty bodies have endorsed a version of
the ‘‘Chicago Statement’’;
Whereas, in December 2014, the University
of Hawaii at Hilo settled a lawsuit for $50,000
after it was sued in Federal court for prohib-
iting students from protesting the National
Security Agency unless those students were
standing in the tiny, flood-prone free speech
zone at the university;
Whereas, in July 2015, California State
Polytechnic University, Pomona, settled a
lawsuit for $35,000 after it was sued in Fed-
eral court for prohibiting a student from
handing out flyers about animal abuse out-
side of the free speech zone at the university,
comprising less than 0.01 percent of campus;
Whereas, in May 2016, a student-plaintiff
settled her lawsuit against Blinn College in
Texas for $50,000 after administrators told
her she needed ‘‘special permission’’ to advo-
cate for Second Amendment rights outside of
the tiny free speech zone at the college;
Whereas, in February 2017, Georgia
Gwinnett College agreed to modify its re-
strictive speech policies after two students
sued in Federal court to challenge a require-
ment that students obtain prior authoriza-
tion from administrators to engage in ex-
pressive activity within the limits of a tiny
free speech zone, comprising less than 0.0015
percent of campus;
Whereas, in March 2017, Middlebury Col-
lege students and protesters from the com-
munity prevented an invited speaker from
giving his presentation and then attacked
his car and assaulted a professor as the two
attempted to leave, resulting in the pro-
fessor suffering a concussion;
Whereas, in January 2018, Kellogg Commu-
nity College in Michigan settled a lawsuit
for $55,000 for arresting two students for
handing out copies of the Constitution of the
United States while talking with their fellow
students on a sidewalk;
Whereas, in June 2018, the University of
Michigan agreed to change its restrictive
speech code on the same day the United
States Department of Justice filed a state-
ment of interest in support of a lawsuit in
Federal court challenging the constitu-
tionality of the speech code of the univer-
sity;
Whereas, in December 2018, the Los Ange-
les Community College District, a 9-campus
community college district that includes
Pierce College, settled a lawsuit for $225,000
and changed its restrictive speech policies
after it was sued in Federal court for prohib-
iting a Pierce College student from distrib-
uting Spanish-language copies of the Con-
stitution of the United States on campus un-
less he stood in the free speech zone, which
comprised approximately 0.003 percent of the
total area of the 426 acres of the college;
Whereas, in December 2018, the University
of California, Berkeley, home of the 1960s
campus free speech movement, settled a law-
suit for $70,000 and changed its restrictive
policies after it was sued in Federal court for
singling out one student group, apart from
other student groups, with the imposition of
stricter rules for inviting ‘‘high-profile’’ pub-
lic speakers;
Whereas the States of Virginia, Missouri,
Arizona, Kentucky, Colorado, Utah, North
Carolina, Tennessee, Florida, Georgia, Lou-
isiana, South Dakota, and Iowa have passed
legislation prohibiting public colleges and
universities from quarantining expressive
activities on the open outdoor areas of cam-
puses to misleadingly labeled free speech
zones; and
Whereas free speech zones have been used
to restrict political speech from all parts of
the political spectrum and have thus inhib-
ited the free exchange of ideas at campuses
across the country: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes that free speech zones and
restrictive speech codes are inherently at
odds with the freedom of speech guaranteed
by the First Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States;
(2) recognizes that institutions of higher
education should facilitate and recommit
themselves to protecting the free and open
exchange of ideas;
(3) recognizes that freedom of expression
and freedom of speech are sacred ideals of
the United States that must be vigorously
safeguarded in a world increasingly hostile
to democracy;
(4) encourages the Secretary of Education
to promote policies that foster spirited de-
bate, academic freedom, intellectual curi-
osity, and viewpoint diversity on the cam-
puses of public colleges and universities; and
(5) encourages the Attorney General to de-
fend and protect the First Amendment
across public colleges and universities.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, it
is so interesting to always come to the
floor and speak on topics that are im-
portant to Tennesseans and I think
also to Americans. As I begin my re-
marks, I want to kind of build the con-
text for this and take us back to a time
I know the Presiding Officer recalls,
and so do I. It was the sixties. I was a
child who was growing up. I remember
it as a decade where bold statements
and brash behavior and activists from
each side of the aisle set the standard
for what we today look at and say is a
modern-day political protest. What we
saw in this decade was once-sleepy col-
lege campuses became the scenes of
widespread unrest. Tensions were high
and conditions were perfect for what
else but a Supreme Court battle.
In September 1969, a group of stu-
dents attending Central Connecticut
State University decided they wanted
to organize a local chapter of the orga-
nization Students for Democratic Soci-
ety. The university president rejected
the application, claiming that the SDS
philosophy was ‘‘antithetical to the
school’s policies’’ and could be a dis-
ruptive influence on campus.
Now, I am sure he thought he had a
good point. The national SDS organiza-
tion was known for its fiery protests,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:46 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.059 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3263
June 5, 2019
and its now-notorious acts of civil dis-
obedience. They made it their business
to make authority figures nervous.
Nervousness, however, is not an excep-
tion to the First Amendment. The stu-
dents knew that, so the lawsuits start-
ed flying. The students’ case finally
made it to the Supreme Court, which
held that ‘‘the First Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States ap-
plies in full force on the campuses of
public colleges and universities.’’ That
case, Healy v. James, was a win for free
speech. Although precedent continues
to trend in the right direction, the
First Amendment is in danger on the
American college campus. From so-
called free speech zones to severely re-
stricted speech codes, campus officials
are doing their best to ensure that stu-
dents are protected from anything that
may challenge their preexisting no-
tions of right and wrong.
Instead of creating a safe environ-
ment, these policies have backfired,
creating an atmosphere of fear and vio-
lence toward opposing viewpoints.
Just this past April, protesters at the
University of Texas at Austin used
smoke bombs to shut down a pro-life
speaker at a Young Conservatives of
Texas event.
In 2017, the editorial staff at Welles-
ley College’s student newspaper threat-
ened hostility toward anyone whose be-
liefs—their beliefs; not just their words
but their beliefs—did not fit into the
acceptable liberal mold.
That same year, Middlebury College
campus—their left behaved so disgrace-
fully that one progressive columnist
begged the students at his alma mater
to find a way to protest views they dis-
agree with without shutting down
speech entirely.
In the face of such hostility toward
free and open debate, I ask this body,
what have we done, and what can be
done to turn back the tide?
Today, on the eve of National Higher
Education Day, I am introducing the
Campus Free Speech Resolution of 2019.
It is a first step in restoring sanity to
free speech for American college stu-
dents. This resolution first and fore-
most recognizes that free speech zones
and restrictive speech codes contradict
the guarantees of the First Amend-
ment. It recognizes that universities
should protect the free and open ex-
change of ideas and that freedom of
speech is worth protecting in a world
increasingly hostile to democracy.
Through this resolution, I encourage
the Secretary of Education to promote
policies that encourage intellectual cu-
riosity, viewpoint diversity, and de-
bate. Last but not least, I encourage
the Attorney General to defend and
protect the First Amendment.
Standing by as universities surrender
to activists who value their own com-
fort over the free exchange of ideas
isn’t just a mistake; it is a moral in-
version.
We have a duty to make sure younger
generations understand that protecting
the First Amendment means pro-
tecting one another in the public
square—even if we want more than
anything to shut down what we are
hearing. I may disagree with what you
have to say, but I will defend your
right to say it.
Above all, we have a duty to help
them understand that an America
where curiosity is replaced by sus-
picion, where debate is replaced by in-
timidation, and where speech is re-
placed by silence is no America at all.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 234—AFFIRM-
ING THE UNITED STATES COM-
MITMENT TO THE TWO-STATE
SOLUTION TO THE ISRAELI-PAL-
ESTINIAN CONFLICT, AND NOT-
ING THAT ISRAELI ANNEXATION
OF TERRITORY IN THE WEST
BANK WOULD UNDERMINE
PEACE AND ISRAEL’S FUTURE
AS A JEWISH AND DEMOCRATIC
STATE
Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. SANDERS, Ms. WARREN,
Mr. DURBIN, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms. BALD-
WIN, and Mr. UDALL) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions:
S. RES. 234
Whereas longstanding United States policy
has recognized that a two-state solution to
achieve peace between the Israelis and Pal-
estinians would serve as the best hope for
peace and security in the region;
Whereas roadmaps for peace outlined by
President Bill Clinton, President George W.
Bush, and President Barack Obama reflected
the bipartisan United States policy pro-
moting a negotiated two-state solution that
supports the self-determination of both
Israelis and Palestinians;
Whereas successive United States adminis-
trations of different political parties identi-
fied settlement expansion as an impediment
to peace;
Whereas Israel’s status as a Jewish and
democratic state has been indispensable to
its national identity throughout its history;
Whereas Israel has built and maintained
relationships with its Arab neighbors;
Whereas ongoing security coordination be-
tween Israelis and Palestinians promotes
stability;
Whereas deep United States-Israel coopera-
tion provides significant mutual benefit to
the security and prosperity of both countries
and strengthens the unbreakable bond be-
tween the people of each country; and
Whereas any resolution to the Israeli-Pal-
estinian conflict must guarantee Israel’s se-
curity: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That is the sense of the Senate
that—
(1) the policy of the United States should
be to preserve conditions conducive to a ne-
gotiated two-state solution;
(2) United States efforts to promote peace
between the Israelis and Palestinians should
explicitly endorse a two-state solution as the
goal of any process to resolve the conflict’s
core issues;
(3) unilateral annexation of portions of the
West Bank would jeopardize prospects for a
two-state solution, harm Israel’s relation-
ship with its Arab neighbors, threaten
Israel’s Jewish and democratic identity, and
undermine Israel’s security; and
(4) a two-state solution is the best hope to
preserve Israel’s Jewish and democratic na-
ture while fulfilling the Palestinians’ right
to self-determination, creating a foundation
for just and durable peace and prosperity.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 235—DESIG-
NATING JUNE 12, 2019, AS
‘‘WOMEN VETERANS APPRECIA-
TION DAY’’
Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mrs.
BLACKBURN) submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 235
Whereas, throughout all periods of the his-
tory of the United States, women have
proudly served the United States to secure
and preserve freedom and liberty for—
(1) the people of the United States; and
(2) the allies of the United States;
Whereas women have formally been a part
of the United States Armed Forces since the
establishment of the Army Nurse Corps in
1901, but have informally served since the in-
ception of the United States military;
Whereas women have served honorably and
with valor, including—
(1) disguised as male soldiers during the
American Revolution and the Civil War;
(2) as nurses during World War I and World
War II; and
(3) as combat helicopter pilots in Afghani-
stan;
Whereas, as of May 2019, women constitute
approximately 15 percent of United States
Armed Forces personnel on active duty, in-
cluding—
(1) nearly 19 percent of active duty per-
sonnel in the Air Force;
(2) 18 percent of active duty personnel in
the Navy;
(3) 14 percent of active duty personnel in
the Army;
(4) 8 percent of active duty personnel in the
Marine Corps; and
(5) nearly 15 percent of active duty per-
sonnel in the Coast Guard;
Whereas, as of May 2019, women constitute
nearly 21 percent of personnel in the Na-
tional Guard and Reserves;
Whereas by 2020—
(1) the population of women veterans is ex-
pected to reach 2,000,000, which represents an
exponential increase from 1,100,000 in 1980;
and
(2) women veterans are expected to con-
stitute more than 10 percent of the total vet-
eran population;
Whereas the United States is proud of and
appreciates the service of all women vet-
erans who have demonstrated great skill,
sacrifice, and commitment to defending the
principles upon which the United States was
founded and which the United States con-
tinues to uphold;
Whereas women veterans have unique sto-
ries and should be encouraged to share their
recollections through the Veterans History
Project, which has worked since 2000 to col-
lect and share the personal accounts of war-
time veterans in the United States; and
Whereas, by designing June 12, 2019, as
‘‘Women Veterans Appreciation Day’’, the
Senate can—
(1) highlight the growing presence of
women in the Armed Forces and the Na-
tional Guard; and
(2) pay respect to women veterans for their
dutiful military service: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate designates June
12, 2019, as ‘‘Women Veterans Appreciation
Day’’ to recognize the service and sacrifices
of women veterans who have served valiantly
on behalf of the United States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:46 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.036 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3264 June 5, 2019
SENATE RESOLUTION 236—RE-
AFFIRMING THE STRONG PART-
NERSHIP BETWEEN TUNISIA AND
THE UNITED STATES AND SUP-
PORTING THE PEOPLE OF TUNI-
SIA IN THEIR CONTINUED PUR-
SUIT OF DEMOCRATIC REFORMS
Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and Mr.
ROMNEY) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 236
Whereas relations between the United
States and Tunisia began in 1795, and the 2
countries have partnered in trade and secu-
rity since the signing of the Treaty of Peace
and Friendship, signed at Tunis, August 28,
1797;
Whereas the United States was the first
major power to recognize a sovereign Tuni-
sia, following its independence from France
in 1956;
Whereas the people of the United States
and of Tunisia share core values, such as re-
spect for human rights, democracy, and the
rule of law;
Whereas, on January 14, 2011, the peaceful
mass protests of the Jasmine Revolution
successfully brought to an end the authori-
tarian rule of President Ben Ali;
Whereas, in the aftermath of Ben Ali’s res-
ignation, Tunisians—
(1) initiated a peaceful, consensus-based,
and inclusive transition to democracy;
(2) held the first competitive, multi-party
democratic elections of the 2011 Arab Spring;
(3) adopted a new constitution in 2014; and
(4) held new elections under that constitu-
tion later that year;
Whereas, on December 31, 2014, after win-
ning a free and fair presidential election,
Beji Caid Essebsi was inaugurated as the
first freely elected President of Tunisia;
Whereas, on October 9, 2015, the Norwegian
Nobel Committee awarded the Tunisian Na-
tional Dialogue Quartet, a coalition of 4 civil
society organizations, the 2015 Nobel Peace
Prize for the coalition’s work—
(1) building on the promise of the 2011 Jas-
mine Revolution; and
(2) ensuring that the transition of Tunisia
into a democracy did not descend into vio-
lence or renewed authoritarianism;
Whereas Tunisia has been the only North
African country to achieve a ‘‘Free’’ rating
by the Freedom House’s annual Freedom in
the World report, and has maintained a
‘‘Free’’ rating since 2015;
Whereas the political evolution of Tunisia
stands as an inspiration for citizens of other
states aspiring to establish the institutions
of democracy after a history of autocratic
rule;
Whereas Tunisia suffered significant ter-
rorist attacks in 2015 and 2016;
Whereas, on October 29, 2018, a terrorist at-
tack on Avenue Habib Bourguiba in Tunis
wounded 20 people and was perpetrated by an
unemployed university graduate who had
been unemployed for 3 years and had no
known ties to terrorist groups;
Whereas, in the aftermath of these at-
tacks, citizens and leaders of Tunisia have
reaffirmed their commitment to dialogue,
pluralism, and democracy;
Whereas a significant number of Tunisian
fighters for extremist groups, including the
Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) report-
edly returned to Tunisia, many clandes-
tinely, between 2011 and 2018;
Whereas Tunisia continues to face serious
threats to its security from violent extrem-
ist groups operating within the country as
well as in neighboring countries;
Whereas, in July 2015, President Obama
designated Tunisia as a major non-NATO
ally;
Whereas Tunisia has committed approxi-
mately 15 percent of its budget to defense
and interior ministries for counterterrorism
in recent years, at the expense of economic
and social development;
Whereas Tunisia faces economic chal-
lenges, including high inflation and high un-
employment, especially among young
Tunisians;
Whereas the United States Government is
committed to continuing a strong economic
partnership with Tunisia as its government
undertakes reforms to transform its econ-
omy to meet the aspirations of all of the
citizens of Tunisia;
Whereas it is in the interest of the United
States, and consistent with the values of the
United States, to support the aspirations of
the people of Tunisia in developing a plu-
ralist democracy and transparent, effective
institutions;
Whereas, in accordance with the United
States-Tunisia strategic partnership, both
countries are dedicated to working together
to promote—
(1) economic development and business op-
portunities in Tunisia;
(2) education for the advancement of long-
term development in Tunisia; and
(3) increased security cooperation to ad-
dress common threats in Tunisia and across
the region; and
Whereas the United States Government
should provide a level of funding to strongly
assist and reinforce Tunisia’s promising
transition into a democratic, stable, and
prosperous nation:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) commends the people of Tunisia for
their commitment to democracy, the rule of
law, and free and fair elections;
(2) commends the political leaders of Tuni-
sia for their willingness to compromise and
work together in the national interest;
(3) condemns all acts of terrorism, and ex-
tends condolences to the families of victims
of terrorism and to the people and Govern-
ment of Tunisia;
(4) commends the people and Government
of Tunisia for their resilience in the face of
terrorist attacks and their enduring commit-
ment to a free, democratic, and peaceful Re-
public of Tunisia;
(5) encourages President Essebi, Head of
Government Chahed, and the Parliament of
Tunisia to work together to accelerate eco-
nomic reforms and anti-corruption measures;
(6) looks forward to new free and fair par-
liamentary and presidential elections sched-
uled for the last several months of 2019;
(7) calls on the Government of Tunisia—
(A) to fully implement the Tunisian Con-
stitution of 2014, including the protection of
civil liberties and the establishment of new
institutions, such as the Constitutional
Court;
(B) to continue its commitment to demo-
cratic accountability and transitional jus-
tice, including with regard to corruption;
(C) to continue decentralizing political
power to local governments, which is a key
step toward more accountable governance
and a means to address long-standing issues
of dramatic regional disparity in health care,
education, poverty, and infrastructure; and
(D) to further develop its plan to identify,
prosecute, deradicalize, or reintegrate into
society Tunisian fighters returned from
abroad;
(8) calls on the neighbors and partners of
Tunisia to work cooperatively with the Gov-
ernment of Tunisia to counter terrorist
threats, secure borders, and support the
democratic transition of Tunisia;
(9) reaffirms the national interest of the
United States in continued democracy in Tu-
nisia, including—
(A) respect for the rule of law;
(B) independent media;
(C) a vibrant civil society; and
(D) universal rights and freedoms, includ-
ing equal rights for all citizens and freedom
of speech;
(10) affirms the national interest of the
United States in Tunisia’s economic pros-
perity and development, including through
increased foreign direct investment, tour-
ism, entrepreneurship, technical coopera-
tion, and strengthened trade ties;
(11) reaffirms the commitment of the
United States Government to Tunisia, in-
cluding a commitment to provide appro-
priate levels of assistance, in support of the
ongoing transition of Tunisia to an inclu-
sive, prosperous, and secure democracy;
(12) recognizes important partnerships, in-
cluding—
(A) the U.S.-Tunisia Strategic Dialogue;
(B) the U.S.-Tunisia Joint Military Com-
mission;
(C) the U.S.-Tunisia Joint Economic Com-
mission;
(D) the Tunisian American Enterprise
Fund; and
(E) international educational exchange
programs, including the Fulbright Program
and the Thomas Jefferson Scholars Program;
(13) urges increased United States engage-
ment and cooperation with the people and
Government of Tunisia, including—
(A) Tunisia’s democratic institutions;
(B) civil society;
(C) schools and universities;
(D) independent media; and
(E) the private sector; and
(14) reaffirms the historic and continuing
friendship between the people of the United
States and the people of Tunisia.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 237—SUP-
PORTING THE MISSION AND
GOALS OF NATIONAL CRIME VIC-
TIMS’ RIGHTS WEEK IN 2019,
WHICH INCLUDE INCREASING
PUBLIC AWARENESS OF THE
RIGHTS, NEEDS, AND CONCERNS
OF, AND SERVICES AVAILABLE
TO ASSIST, VICTIMS AND SUR-
VIVORS OF CRIME IN THE
UNITED STATES
Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr.
LEAHY, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Mr. CRAPO)
submitted the following resolution;
which was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 237
Whereas, in 2017, according to a survey by
the Bureau of Justice Statistics—
(1) an estimated 5,600,000 violent victimiza-
tions were committed against residents of
the United States who were 12 years of age or
older; and
(2) households in the United States experi-
enced an estimated 13,340,000 property vic-
timizations;
Whereas, in 2017, only 45 percent of violent
crimes and 36 percent of property victimiza-
tions were reported to police;
Whereas, as of 2015, the most conservative
estimate for the economic losses sustained
by victims of property crimes and victims of
violent crime was approximately
$11,200,000,000 per year;
Whereas the economic cost alone does not
fully describe the emotional, physical, and
psychological impact endured by a victim of
crime;
Whereas crime can touch the life of any in-
dividual, regardless of the age, race, national
origin, religion, or gender of the individual;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:46 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.069 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3265
June 5, 2019
Whereas a just society acknowledges the
impact of crime on individuals, families,
schools, and communities by—
(1) protecting the rights of crime victims
and survivors; and
(2) ensuring that resources and services are
available to help rebuild the lives of the vic-
tims and survivors, including victims’ com-
pensation to reimburse victims for out-of-
pocket expenses due to crime;
Whereas, despite impressive accomplish-
ments in increasing the rights of, and serv-
ices available to, crime victims and sur-
vivors and the families of the victims and
survivors, many challenges remain to ensure
that all crime victims and survivors and the
families of the victims and survivors are—
(1) treated with dignity, fairness, and re-
spect;
(2) offered support and services, regardless
of whether the victims and survivors report
crimes committed against them; and
(3) recognized as key participants within
the criminal, juvenile, Federal, and Tribal
justice systems in the United States when
the victims and survivors report crimes;
Whereas crime victims and survivors in the
United States and the families of the victims
and survivors need and deserve support and
assistance to help cope with the often dev-
astating consequences of crime;
Whereas, since Congress passed the first
resolution designating Crime Victims Week
in 1985, communities across the United
States have joined Congress and the Depart-
ment of Justice in commemorating National
Crime Victims’ Rights Week to celebrate a
shared vision of a comprehensive and col-
laborative response that identifies and ad-
dresses the many needs of crime victims and
survivors and the families of the victims and
survivors;
Whereas Congress and the President agree
on the need for a renewed commitment to
serve all victims and survivors of crime in
the 21st century;
Whereas, in 2019, National Crime Victims’
Rights Week was celebrated from April 7
through April 13, and the theme, ‘‘Honoring
our Past. Creating Hope for the Future.’’,
celebrates the progress made by those before
us as we look to a future of crime victim
services that is even more inclusive, acces-
sible, and trauma-informed;
Whereas engaging communities in victim
assistance is essential in promoting public
safety;
Whereas the United States must empower
crime victims and survivors by—
(1) protecting the legal rights of the vic-
tims and survivors; and
(2) providing the victims and survivors
with services to help them in the aftermath
of crime; and
Whereas the people of the United States
recognize and appreciate the continued im-
portance of—
(1) promoting the rights of, and services
for, crime victims and survivors; and
(2) honoring crime victims and survivors
and individuals who provide services for the
victims and survivors: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the mission and goals of Na-
tional Crime Victims’ Rights Week, which
include increasing individual and public
awareness of—
(A) the impact of crime on victims and sur-
vivors and the families of the victims and
survivors; and
(B) the challenges to achieving justice for
victims and survivors of crime and the fami-
lies of the victims and survivors and the
many solutions available to meet those chal-
lenges; and
(2) recognizes that crime victims and sur-
vivors and the families of the victims and
survivors should be treated with dignity,
fairness, and respect.
SENATE RESOLUTION 238—DESIG-
NATING THE WEEK OF JUNE 3
THROUGH JUNE 9, 2019, AS
‘‘HEMP HISTORY WEEK’’
Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. MCCON-
NELL, Mr. MERKLEY, and Mr. PAUL) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 238
Whereas Hemp History Week will be held
from June 3 through June 9, 2019;
Whereas the goals of Hemp History Week
are to commemorate the historical relevance
of industrial hemp in the United States and
to promote the full growth potential of the
industrial hemp industry;
Whereas industrial hemp is an agricultural
commodity that has been used for centuries
to produce many innovative industrial and
consumer products, including soap, fabric,
textiles, construction materials, clothing,
paper, cosmetics, food, and beverages;
Whereas the global market for hemp is es-
timated to consist of more than 25,000 prod-
ucts;
Whereas the value of hemp imported into
the United States for use in the production
of other retail products is estimated at ap-
proximately $76,000,000 annually;
Whereas the United States hemp industry
estimates that the annual market value of
hemp retail sales in the United States is
more than $1,000,000,000;
Whereas, despite the legitimate uses of
hemp, agricultural producers of the United
States were for decades prohibited under law
from growing hemp;
Whereas, in December 2018, Congress estab-
lished a legal framework for agricultural
producers to cultivate, grow, and sell hemp
in the United States;
Whereas the United States is the largest
consumer of hemp products in the world; and
Whereas industrial hemp holds great po-
tential to bolster the agricultural economy
of the United States: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates the week of June 3 through
June 9, 2019, as ‘‘Hemp History Week’’;
(2) recognizes the historical relevance of
industrial hemp; and
(3) recognizes the growing economic poten-
tial of industrial hemp.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 239—DESIG-
NATING JUNE 2019 AS ‘‘GREAT
OUTDOORS MONTH’’
Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr. PE-
TERS, Mr. GARDNER, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
RISCH, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. CRAMER, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. HEINRICH,
Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. KING, and Ms. ERNST)
submitted the following resolution;
which was considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 239
Whereas hundreds of millions of people in
the United States participate in outdoor
recreation annually;
Whereas Congress enacted the Outdoor
Recreation Jobs and Economic Impact Act of
2016 (Public Law 114–249; 130 Stat. 999) to as-
sess and analyze the outdoor recreation
economy of the United States and the effects
attributable to the outdoor recreation econ-
omy on the overall economy of the United
States;
Whereas the Outdoor Recreation Satellite
Account released in September 2018 by the
Bureau of Economic Analysis of the United
States Department of Commerce shows that
outdoor recreation contributed more than
$412,000,000,000 of current-dollar gross domes-
tic product to the economy of the United
States in 2016, comprising approximately 2.2
percent of the current-dollar gross domestic
product;
Whereas the Outdoor Recreation Satellite
Account shows that the outdoor recreation
sector experienced faster growth in real
gross output, compensation, and employ-
ment than the overall economy in 2016, while
also providing 4,546,000 jobs across the coun-
try;
Whereas the Consolidated Appropriations
Act of 2019 (Public Law 116–6) encouraged the
Department of Commerce to continue its
work with the Outdoor Recreation Satellite
Account;
Whereas regular outdoor recreation is as-
sociated with positive health outcomes and
better quality of life;
Whereas outdoor recreation is part of the
national heritage of the United States; and
Whereas June 2019 is an appropriate month
to designate as ‘‘Great Outdoors Month’’ to
provide an opportunity to celebrate the im-
portance of the great outdoors: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates June 2019 as ‘‘Great Outdoors
Month’’; and
(2) encourages all people in the United
States to recreate in the great outdoors in
June 2019 and year-round.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 19—CELEBRATING THE 50TH
ANNIVERSARY OF THE APOLLO
11 MOON LANDING
Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mr.
BROWN) submitted the following con-
current resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation:
S. CON. RES. 19
Whereas, on May 25, 1961, President John
F. Kennedy, Jr., before a joint session of
Congress, declared, ‘‘Now it is time to take
longer strides—time for a great new Amer-
ican enterprise—time for this Nation to take
a clearly leading role in space achievement,
which in many ways may hold the key to our
future on Earth’’, setting the goal of sending
astronauts to the Moon and returning them
safely to the Earth;
Whereas the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration (in this preamble re-
ferred to as ‘‘NASA’’) mobilized and estab-
lished the Apollo space program to meet the
goal set by President Kennedy;
Whereas the Apollo space program built on
the achievements of the prior space pro-
grams of NASA, including the Mercury and
Gemini missions;
Whereas the successful Moon landing hon-
ored the tragic sacrifice of every astronaut
whose life had previously been lost in the
service of United States spaceflight research,
including—
(1) Roger B. Chaffee, Virgil I. ‘‘Gus’’
Grissom, and Edward H. White II, the astro-
nauts whose lives were lost during pre-flight
tests for Apollo 1; and
(2) Theodore C. Freeman, Charles A. Bas-
sett II, Elliot See, Jr., Robert H. Lawrence,
Jr., Michael J. Adams, and Clifton C. Wil-
liams, Jr.;
Whereas the crew of the Apollo 11 mission
consisted of—
(1) Neil Armstrong, Mission Commander;
(2) Edwin E. ‘‘Buzz’’ Aldrin, Lunar Module
Pilot; and
(3) Michael Collins, Command Module
Pilot;
Whereas James A. Lovell, Jr., Fred W.
Haise, Jr., and William A. Anders stood
ready to support or stand in for the Apollo 11
crew;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:46 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.062 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3266 June 5, 2019
Whereas, on July 16, 1969, the Apollo 11
crew launched from the NASA Launch Oper-
ations Center, now known as the John F.
Kennedy Space Center, aboard a Saturn V
rocket;
Whereas, on July 20, 1969, Neil Armstrong
and Buzz Aldrin landed the Eagle Lunar
Module on the surface of the Moon, and Neil
Armstrong said to Mission Control in Hous-
ton, Texas, ‘‘Houston, Tranquility Base here.
The Eagle has landed.’’;
Whereas, when Neil Armstrong took the
first step onto the Moon, he declared,
‘‘That’s one small step for a man, one giant
leap for mankind.’’;
Whereas Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin
planted the flag of the United States in lunar
soil, recording the achievement of the coun-
try as the first to land on the Moon;
Whereas Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin
placed a plaque on the Moon that reads, ‘‘We
came in peace for all mankind’’, recording
the peaceful, scientific intent of the Apollo
missions;
Whereas the Apollo 11 crew collected lunar
samples and conducted experiments to gain a
better understanding of the composition of
the Moon and conditions on its surface;
Whereas the Lunar Laser Ranging
Retroreflector installed by the Apollo 11
crew is still used to measure the distance of
the Moon from the surface of the Earth;
Whereas the success of the Apollo 11 Moon
landing was due to the skill, dedication, and
collective effort of tens of thousands of
workers, scientists, engineers, and contrac-
tors of the United States;
Whereas the trajectory calculations of
Katherine Johnson and other mathemati-
cians in the computer pool at NASA were
critical to the design of the Apollo 11 mis-
sion and the rendezvous of the Apollo 11
Lunar Lander with the Command and Serv-
ice Module in lunar orbit;
Whereas the Apollo 11 mission dem-
onstrated the focus and capability of the sci-
entific community of the United States and
established the United States as the world
leader in space exploration;
Whereas the Apollo 11 Moon landing was
broadcasted live over radio and television to
millions across the world;
Whereas, 50 years later, the Apollo 11 Moon
landing continues to inspire national sci-
entific efforts in space, medicine, and other
fields; and
Whereas the knowledge and experience
gained from the Apollo space program con-
tinues to inform missions to Mars, the far
reaches of the solar system, and beyond:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That Congress—
(1) celebrates the 50th anniversary of the
Apollo 11 Moon landing;
(2) honors the bravery and skill of the crew
of Apollo 11, Neil Armstrong, Edwin E.
‘‘Buzz’’ Aldrin, and Michael Collins;
(3) commends the efforts of all individuals
of the United States who contributed to the
achievement of the Apollo 11 Moon landing,
exemplifying a cooperative effort on a na-
tional scale that continues to inspire sci-
entific progress; and
(4) supports the continued leadership of the
United States in the exploration and utiliza-
tion of space through human spaceflight.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 8
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, June 5, 2019, at 10 a.m.,
to conduct a hearing on the following
nominations: Thomas Peter Feddo, of
Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of
the Treasury for Investment Security,
Nazak Nikakhtar, of Maryland, to be
Under Secretary for Industry and Secu-
rity, and Ian Paul Steff, of Indiana, to
be Assistant Secretary and Director
General of the United States and For-
eign Commercial Service, both of the
Department of Commerce, Michelle
Bowman, of Kansas, to be a Member of
the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, Paul Shmotolokha, of
Washington, to be First Vice President
of the Export-Import Bank of the
United States, and Allison Herren Lee,
of Colorado, to be a Member of the Se-
curities and Exchange Commission.
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, June 5, 2019, at
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, June 5, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing on the nomination of
Robert Wallace, of Wyoming, to be As-
sistant Secretary of the Interior for
Fish and Wildlife.
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
The Committee on Finance is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, June 5, 2019, at
9:45 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, June
5, 2019, at 10:15 a.m., to conduct a hear-
ing.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, June 5,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on
the following nominations: Peter Jo-
seph Phipps, of Pennsylvania, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the
Third Circuit, Charles R. Eskridge Ill,
to be United States District Judge for
the Southern District of Texas, Wil-
liam Shaw Stickman IV, to be United
States District Judge for the Western
District of Pennsylvania, and Jennifer
Philpott Wilson, to be United States
District Judge for the Middle District
of Pennsylvania.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, June 5,
2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS
The Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, June
5, 2019, at a time to be determined, to
conduct a hearing on the nomination of
James Byrne, of Virginia, to be Deputy
Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that floor privi-
leges be granted for the remainder of
the day to my fellow, Dr. Kali Cyrus,
and that they be granted for the rest of
the year to the interns in my office,
named Jyot Singh, Darcy Farwell, Al-
exandra Hartman, Jordan Sicklick,
Holly McGrath, Jordan Adjepong, and
Cady Stanton.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MEASURE READ THE FIRST
TIME—H.R. 6
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there is a bill at the desk,
and I ask for its first reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the first time.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 6) to authorize the cancellation
of removal and adjustment of status of cer-
tain aliens, and for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
now ask for a second reading, and in
order to place the bill on the calendar
under the provisions of rule XIV, I ob-
ject to my own request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard. The bill will be read for
the second time on the next legislative
day.
f
EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF OCTOBER 28,
2019 AS ‘‘HONORING THE NA-
TION’S FIRST RESPONDERS
DAY’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 108, S. Con. Res.
15.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (S. Con. Res. 15)
expressing support for the designation of Oc-
tober 28, 2019, as ‘‘Honoring the Nation’s
First Responders Day’’.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the con-
current resolution be agreed to, the
preamble be agreed to, and the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table with no intervening
action or debate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:46 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.063 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3267
June 5, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The concurrent resolution (S. Con.
Res. 15) was agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The concurrent resolution, with its
preamble, is printed in the RECORD of
May 1, 2019, under ‘‘Submitted Resolu-
tions.’’)
f
MEASURING THE ECONOMIC IM-
PACT OF BROADBAND ACT OF
2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation
Committee be discharged from further
consideration of S. 1289 and that the
Senate proceed to its immediate con-
sideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 1289) to require the Secretary of
Commerce to conduct an assessment and
analysis of the effects of broadband deploy-
ment and adoption on the economy of the
United States, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I further ask
unanimous consent that the bill be
considered read a third time and passed
and that the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (S. 1289) was ordered to be
engrossed for a third reading, was read
the third time, and passed, as follows:
S. 1289
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Measuring
the Economic Impact of Broadband Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. ASSESSMENT AND ANALYSIS REGARDING
THE EFFECT OF THE DIGITAL ECON-
OMY ON THE ECONOMY OF THE
UNITED STATES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘‘appropriate committees
of Congress’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate;
(B) the Committee on Environment and
Public Works of the Senate;
(C) the Committee on Small Business and
Entrepreneurship of the Senate;
(D) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives;
(E) the Committee on Transportation and
Infrastructure of the House of Representa-
tives; and
(F) the Committee on Small Business of
the House of Representatives.
(2) ASSISTANT SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘As-
sistant Secretary’’ means the Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce for Communications and
Information.
(3) BROADBAND.—The term ‘‘broadband’’
means an Internet Protocol-based trans-
mission service that enables users to send
and receive voice, video, data, or graphics, or
a combination of those items.
(4) DIGITAL ECONOMY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), the term ‘‘digital economy’’ has the
meaning given the term by the Secretary in
carrying out this section.
(B) CONSIDERATIONS.—In establishing a def-
inition for the term ‘‘digital economy’’ under
subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall con-
sider—
(i) the digital-enabling infrastructure that
a computer network needs to exist and oper-
ate; and
(ii) the roles of e-commerce and digital
media.
(5) DIGITAL MEDIA.—The term ‘‘digital
media’’ means the content that participants
in e-commerce create and access.
(6) E-COMMERCE.—The term ‘‘e-commerce’’
means the digital transactions that take
place using the infrastructure described in
paragraph (4)(B)(i).
(7) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Commerce.
(b) BIENNIAL ASSESSMENT AND ANALYSIS
REQUIRED.—Not later than 2 years after the
date of enactment of this Act, and biennially
thereafter, the Secretary, in consultation
with the Director of the Bureau of Economic
Analysis of the Department of Commerce
and the Assistant Secretary, shall conduct
an assessment and analysis regarding the
contribution of the digital economy to the
economy of the United States.
(c) CONSIDERATIONS AND CONSULTATION.—In
conducting each assessment and analysis re-
quired under subsection (b), the Secretary
shall—
(1) consider the impact of—
(A) the deployment and adoption of—
(i) digital-enabling infrastructure; and
(ii) broadband;
(B) e-commerce and platform-enabled peer-
to-peer commerce; and
(C) the production and consumption of dig-
ital media, including free media; and
(2) consult with—
(A) the heads of any agencies and offices of
the Federal Government as the Secretary
considers appropriate, including the Sec-
retary of Agriculture, the Commissioner of
the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Adminis-
trator of the Small Business Administration,
and the Federal Communications Commis-
sion;
(B) representatives of the business commu-
nity, including rural and urban internet
service providers and telecommunications
infrastructure providers;
(C) representatives from State, local, and
tribal government agencies; and
(D) representatives from consumer and
community organizations.
(d) REPORT.—The Secretary shall submit to
the appropriate committees of Congress a re-
port regarding the findings of the Secretary
with respect to each assessment and analysis
conducted under subsection (b).
f
PROTECTING AFFORDABLE MORT-
GAGES FOR VETERANS ACT OF
2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. 1749, submitted earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 1749) to clarify seasoning require-
ments for certain refinanced mortgage loans,
and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be considered read
a third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
If not, the bill having been read the
third time, the question is, Shall the
bill pass?
The bill (S. 1749) was passed, as fol-
lows:
S. 1749
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Protecting
Affordable Mortgages for Veterans Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. SEASONING REQUIREMENTS FOR CER-
TAIN REFINANCED MORTGAGE
LOANS.
(a) GINNIE MAE.—Section 306(g)(1) of the
National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)(1)) is
amended by striking the second sentence.
(b) VETERANS LOANS.—Section 3709(c) of
title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in the matter before paragraph (1), by
striking ‘‘is refinanced’’ and inserting ‘‘is a
refinance’’; and
(2) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and
inserting the following new paragraphs:
‘‘(1) the date on which the borrower has
made at least six consecutive monthly pay-
ments on the loan being refinanced; and
‘‘(2) the date that is 210 days after the first
payment due date of the loan being refi-
nanced.’’.
(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this Act may be construed to restrict or oth-
erwise modify the authorities of the Govern-
ment National Mortgage Association.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF THE WEEK OF
JUNE 1, 2019, THROUGH JUNE 9,
2019, AS ‘‘NATIONAL FISHING
AND BOATING WEEK’’
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation
Committee be discharged from further
consideration and that the Senate now
proceed to S. Res. 174.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 174) expressing sup-
port for the designation of the week of June
1, 2019, through June 9, 2019, as ‘‘National
Fishing and Boating Week’’.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:55 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.073 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3268 June 5, 2019
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 174) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of April 30, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
RECOGNIZING THE 30TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE TIANANMEN
SQUARE MASSACRE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the For-
eign Relations Committee be dis-
charged from further consideration of
S. Res. 221 and the Senate proceed to
its immediate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the resolution
by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 221) recognizing the
30th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square
massacre and condemning the intensifying
repression and human rights violations by
the Chinese Communist Party and the use of
surveillance by Chinese authorities.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 221) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble,
was printed in the RECORD of May 23,
2019, under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
RESOLUTIONS SUBMITTED TODAY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate now proceed to the en bloc consid-
eration of the following Senate resolu-
tions, which were submitted earlier
today: S. Res. 237, S. Res. 238, and S.
Res. 239.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolutions
en bloc.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the resolutions.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
Hearing none, the question is on
agreeing to the resolutions en bloc.
The resolutions (S. Res. 237, S. Res.
238, and S. Res. 239) were agreed to.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the pre-
ambles be agreed to and the motions to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table, all en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The preambles were agreed to.
(The resolutions, with their pre-
ambles, are printed in today’s RECORD
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREE-
MENT—S.J. RES 20 AND S.J. RES.
26
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that with re-
spect to S.J. Res. 20 and S.J. Res 26,
Senator PAUL, or his designee, be rec-
ognized at a time to be determined by
the majority leader in consultation
with the Democratic leader, but no
later than June 14, to make a motion
to discharge such resolution; further,
that there be up to an hour of debate
on each motion, equally divided be-
tween the proponents and the oppo-
nents, with 7 minutes reserved for both
the chairman and the ranking member
respectively, prior to each vote; and
that following the use or yielding back
of that time, the Senate vote in rela-
tion to the motion to discharge; fur-
ther, that if either motion to discharge
is agreed to, the joint resolution be eli-
gible for the expedited procedures
under the Arms Export Control Act.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY, JUNE 6,
2019, AND MONDAY, JUNE 10, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn, to then convene for a pro
forma session only, with no business
conducted on Thursday, June 6, at 10:30
a.m. I further ask that when the Sen-
ate adjourns on Thursday, June 6, it
next convene at 3 p.m., Monday, June
10, and that following the prayer and
pledge, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
approved to date, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day, morning business be closed,
the Senate proceed to executive session
and resume consideration of the Holte
nomination. Finally, notwithstanding
the provisions of rule XXII, that the
cloture motions filed during today’s
session ripen upon disposition of the
Hertling nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. For the informa-
tion of all Senators, the Senate will
vote on confirmation of the Holte, Al-
ston, Jr., and Hertling nominations, as
well as cloture on the Morrison nomi-
nation, in the order listed at 5:30 p.m.,
Monday, June 10.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL THURSDAY,
JUNE 6, 2019, AT 10:30 A.M.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:21 p.m., adjourned until Thursday,
June 6, 2019, at 10:30 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL TRADE
COMMISSION
AMY KARPEL, OF WASHINGTON, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMIS-
SION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JUNE 16, 2023, VICE IRVING A.
WILLIAMSON, TERM EXPIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
KELLEY ECKELS CURRIE, OF GEORGIA, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR AT LARGE FOR GLOBAL WOMEN’S ISSUES.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
KENNETH CHARLES CANTERBURY, JR., OF SOUTH
CAROLINA, TO BE DIRECTOR, BUREAU OF ALCOHOL, TO-
BACCO, FIREARMS, AND EXPLOSIVES, VICE BYRON TODD
JONES, RESIGNED.
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. ERIC P. WENDT
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN
THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. MICHAEL R. BERRY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. MICHEL M. RUSSELL, SR.
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be brigadier general
COL. CURTIS A. BUZZARD
COL. ANDREW C. HILMES
COL. PATRICK R. MICHAELIS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT IN
THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be major general
BRIG. GEN. JOSEPH L. BIEHLER
BRIG. GEN. WILLIAM B. BLAYLOCK II
BRIG. GEN. THOMAS R. BOUCHARD
BRIG. GEN. PAUL B. CHAUNCEY III
BRIG. GEN. JOHANNA P. CLYBORNE
BRIG. GEN. WILLIAM J. EDWARDS
BRIG. GEN. LEE M. ELLIS
BRIG. GEN. PABLO ESTRADA, JR.
BRIG. GEN. LAPTHE C. FLORA
BRIG. GEN. TROY D. GALLOWAY
BRIG. GEN. LEE W. HOPKINS
BRIG. GEN. MARVIN T. HUNT
BRIG. GEN. MARK C. JACKSON
BRIG. GEN. RICHARD F. JOHNSON
BRIG. GEN. TIM C. LAWSON
BRIG. GEN. KEVIN D. LYONS
BRIG. GEN. MICHAEL A. MITCHELL
BRIG. GEN. MICHEL A. NATALI
BRIG. GEN. CHAD J. PARKER
BRIG. GEN. GREGORY C. PORTER
BRIG. GEN. JEFFREY D. SMILEY
BRIG. GEN. DAVID N. VESPER
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY RESERVE TO THE GRADE
INDICATED UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be rear admiral (lower half)
CAPT. HUAN T. NGUYEN
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED INDIVIDUALS FOR APPOINT-
MENT TO THE GRADES INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant colonel
JASON A. KOSKINEN
To be major
ROBIN T. BINGHAM
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:55 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G05JN6.076 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3269
June 5, 2019
To be colonel
SEAN C. HEIDGERKEN
JOHN J. HOSEY, JR.
EDWARD J. LYNCH
STEVEN R. MEEK
STEPHEN J. MIKO
JOHN F. POPIAK
MICHAEL J. SIEBER
CLINT E. TRACY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be colonel
JESSE ABREU
GERARD M. ACOSTA
TRAVIS D. ADKINS
KEVIN W. AGNESS
RICKY L. ALLBRITTON
WILLETTE L. ALSTONWILLIAMS
CHRISTOPHER W. ANDERSON
DAPHNE H. AUSTIN
BRETT A. AYVAZIAN
ROB W. BARNHILL
SHARI R. BENNETT
SCOTT M. BISHOP
PAUL M. BONANO
ERIC L. BOOKER
PETER A. BOOKER
LUCAS J. A. BRAXTON
ANDRE L. BROWN
JACOB M. BROWN
TAVI N. BRUNSON
NATHANAEL D. BRYANT
THOMAS A. BUCHHOLZ
BEIRE D. CASTRO
FAITH M. CHAMBERLAIN
BONNIE B. B. CLEMENTE
CHRISTOPHER F. CONLEY
RALPH M. CRUM
ELIZABETH H. CURTIS
KANDACE M. DAFFIN
BOBBY H. DAVIS
ERIC B. DENNIS
KHANH T. DIEP
ANTHONY E. DOUGLAS
ANDREW J. DUUS
ANGEL R. ESTRADA
CARL J. FAISON
NICOLE E. FISCHER
JAMES M. GALLAGHER
JAMES E. GANNON
CEDRIC D. GASKIN, JR.
ERIN M. GILLIAM
ANH H. HA
MICHAEL D. HAGERTY, JR.
MICHAEL F. HAMMOND
JOSEPH M. HERMAN
CRYSTAL M. HILLS
NED C. HOLT
DANIEL L. HORN
RYAN A. HOWELL
YU K. HU
ANTHONY E. HUGHLEY
ROBIN D. HUSTED
FRANK E. JEFFERSON, JR.
BENJAMIN G. JOHNSON
ERIK C. JOHNSON
LEE M. JOHNSON
JEFFERY W. JURAND
SHAWN L. KADLEC
ROBERT L. KELLAM
BRIAN J. KETZ
DAVID P. KEY
GREGORY W. LEIPHART
ANDREW S. LUNOFF
MICHAEL R. MAI
TIMOTHY E. MATTHEWS
CRAIG M. MCILWAIN
JAMES W. MCKENNA
BRETT M. MEDLIN
JOHN G. MISENHEIMER, JR.
MARK S. MORGAN
JARED P. NOVAK
ROBERT L. PETROSKY, JR.
KEVIN M. POLOSKY
GRETA A. RAILSBACK
JOE A. RATLIFF
TONI M. RIEKE
PERNELL A. ROBINSON
RIZALDO D. L. SALVADOR
GINA D. SANNICOLAS
JOHN L. SCHIMMING
MICHAEL G. SCHOONOVER
JUSTIN R. SHELL
SHAWANTA D. SMART
ADAM D. SMITH
LANCE M. SNEED
MICHAEL P. SOLOVEY
JENNY T. STACY
NATASHA J. STANLEY
TONEY R. STEPHENSON
JEREMY L. STLAURENT
TIMOTHY SUGARS
JASON F. TATE
STACY M. TOMIC
KECIA M. TROY
SANTEE B. VASQUEZ
LISA A. VILLARREALRENNARD
JEFFREY E. WAGSTAFF
RALPH L. WARE
MICHAEL J. WILLIAMS
MICHELLE M. WILLIAMS
ANTHONY L. WILSON
JULIA A. WILSON
ROBERT J. WOLFE
JOSEPH W. YOUNG
JAMES J. ZACCHINO, JR.
D001385
D006471
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be colonel
RICHARD R. ABELKIS
LEONARDO ADAMS
CHRISTOPHER H. BACHMANN
STEPHEN J. BANKS
THEODORE A. BANNER
JACQUELYN M. BARCOMB
LEE A. BARNARD
DEREK S. BICKLER
JAMES N. BLAIN, JR.
JOSHUA J. BRADLEY
LOUIVE B. BROGAN
DONALD K. BROOKS
ANDREW R. BROWN
JOSEPH P. BUCCINO
GEOFFREY R. BULL
MATTHEW D. BUTT
KATHLEEN S. CAGE
ERICA L. CAMERON
JASON L. CAMPBELL
KWOK F. CHIU
ANDREW P. CLARK
SEAN P. COAKLEY
JONATHAN D. CORNETT
RANDY R. COTE
JULIA O. COXEN
ZACHARY W. COYAN
MICHAEL P. CULLINANE
STEVEN B. CUNNINGHAM
STEPHEN M. DAIL
VICTOR M. DEEKENS
CHRISTOPHER S. DENHAM
MARK A. DENTON
TRAVIS J. DOLAN
BRIAN J. FICKEL
BRIAN P. FLEMING
JOSHUA A. GILLEN
JOSEPH C. GUIDO, JR.
BRETT I. HANSON
EDMOND A. HARDY
MATTHEW W. HEIM
SHANNON E. HELBERG
CAROL M. HICKEY
ANDREW J. HIERSTETTER
KEITH D. HOCKMAN
ZACHARY B. HOHN
RICHARD C. HYDE
KIRK A. INGOLD
JOHN M. IVES
BRIAN P. JACOBSON
CRAIG S. JAYSON
JAMES R. JOHNSON
BRIAN M. JORGENSON
BRIAN M. KADET
CHARLES J. KARELS
MINDY A. KIMBALL
RICHARD A. KIPHUTH
DIANE E. KLEIN
MATTHEW D. KOEHLER
ERIK E. KOENIG
CHRISTOPHER M. KORPELA
MICHAEL T. KOSUDA
KANAME K. KUNIYUKI II
KARLTON L. LANE
MARK J. LAVIN II
ALEX M. LEONOVICH
THEODORE T. LIEBREICH
MICHAEL I. MAHARAJ
CHRISTOPHER E. MARKS
CHRISTOPHER S. MARTIN
CHRISTOPHER M. MARTINEZ
RAYMOND M. MATTOX
MICHAEL E. MCCARTHY
DAVIS K. MCELWAIN
KEITH D. MCMANUS
ZACHARY F. MILLER
MATTHEW J. MOAKLER
DANIEL R. MORRIS
IAN H. MURRAY
RICHARD J. NOWINSKI
MARTIN L. ODONNELL
CHRISTOPHER J. ORTIONA
DAVID E. OWENS
BYRON C. PATERAS
KRISTY K. PERRY
ROBERT E. PETTY V
ROBERT W. PHILLIPS
GREGORY D. PIPES
BRANDON A. PRESSLEY
WAYNE E. PRINCE
MATTHEW R. PROVOST
PABLO A. RAGGIO
MANUEL F. RAMIREZ
JOHN M. REEDER
KLAUDIUS K. ROBINSON
JOSEPH A. ROMAN
JAMES M. ROSS
KENNETH J. RUTKA, JR.
TONI K. SABO
CADE M. SAIE
ADAM A. SANNUTTI
DARCY L. L. SCHNACK
MICHAEL S. SCIOLETTI
COREY N. SHEA
BRYAN P. SHRANK
JAMES A. SINK
DONALD E. SMITH II
SAMUEL P. SMITH, JR.
SANG M. SOK
DAVID K. SPENCER
MICHAEL P. STACHOUR
RYAN P. STAMATIS
JOEY J. SULLINGER
CHRISTOPHER S. SYNOWIEZ
MICHAEL D. TETER
JOSHUA P. TRIMBLE
JAMES O. TURNER, JR.
NICOLE E. VINSON
DAVID E. VIOLAND
STEVEN B. WALDROP
MARK R. WHITEMAN
CHIKE T. WILLIAMS
WINSTON S. WILLIAMS, JR.
CARL J. WOJTASZEK
DANIEL C. WOOD II
BRENDA D. ZOLLINGER
D006093
D013144
D013328
D014376
G010416
G010471
G010532
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be colonel
VINCENT A. AMERENA
RONALD E. ANZALONE
THOMAS J. ARRIAGA
ANTHONY P. BARBINA
STEPHEN L. BATTLE
HENRY M. BENNETT, JR.
AARON D. BOHRER
MANDI L. BOHRER
GARY S. BONHAM
JAMES L. BOOTH
JOSEPH S. BRANNON
JAY W. BROOKE
LOYD W. BROWN
SEAN M. BROWN
DANFORD W. BRYANT II
DARREN W. BUSS
THOMAS A. CALDWELL
GREGORY V. CAMPION
JOHN P. CARSON IV
JOHN M. CASIANO
JASON A. CLARKE
JASON T. COOK
JESSE T. CURRY
ADAM J. CZEKANSKI
RICHARD J. DAVIS
WILLIAM L. DAVIS
DAMON A. DELAROSA
MATTHEW B. DENNIS
HANNON A. DIDIER
ETHAN J. DIVEN
DWIGHT D. DOMENGEAUX, JR.
SEAN P. DONNELLY
PATRICK A. DOUGLAS
BRIAN M. DUCOTE
SAMUEL G. EDWARDS
JAMES M. EGAN
SCOTT J. EMMEL
JOHNNY A. EVANS, JR.
CHAD A. FROEHLICH
JON R. GARDNER
JOSEPH R. GEARY
JOHN J. GEIS III
BRIAN J. GERBER
WADE A. GERMANN
DANIEL C. GIBSON
JOHN B. GILLIAM
MICHAEL GOMEZ
MATTHEW J. GOMLAK
MATTHEW F. GOODING
STEVEN E. GVENTER
JEREMY T. GWINN
JEFFREY D. HALL
BRIAN P. HALLBERG
BRYAN M. HARRIS
JONATHAN L. HARVEY
MARCUS C. HAY
RALPH D. HEATON
MICHAEL D. HELTON
BRIAN T. HOFFMAN
KYLE M. HOGAN
ROBERT J. HOLCOMBE
RONALD J. HUGHES
RICHARD J. IKENA, JR.
SEDRICK L. JACKSON
TRAVIS A. JACOBS
ERIC JACOBSON
JEREMY W. JAMES
ANDREW Q. JORDAN
CHRISTOPHER E. JUDGE
STEPHEN M. KAPLACHINSKI
DEREK R. KELLER
ZACHARY D. KERNS
JAMES A. KIEVIT
CHRISTOPHER J. KIRK
ANDREW J. KISER
DAMON M. KNARR
ADAM J. LACKEY
PHILLIP H. LAMB
JEFFREY J. LESPERANCE
CHRISTOPHER M. LEUNG
RYAN P. LEVESQUE
ADAM J. LEWIS
ALEXANDER C. LOVASZ
ADAM L. LOWMASTER
SHARON R. LYGHT
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:55 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.005 S05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S3270 June 5, 2019
TIMOTHY M. MAHONEY
MICHAEL J. MANNION
CHRISTOPHER M. MARQUEZ
ELIZABETH A. MARTIN
JARRET D. MATHEWS
ROBERT W. MATTHEWS
BRIAN E. MCCARTHY
SEAN P. MCGEE
THURMAN C. MCKENZIE
SCOTT W. MCLELLAN
ROBERT B. MCNELLIS
JON W. MEREDITH
KEYES M. METCALF
CARY J. METZ
JACOB W. MILLER
JAMES M. MITCHELL
PATRICK C. MOFFETT
PETER J. MOON
JOHN D. MORIS
MICHAEL G. MOUROUZIS
CARLOS E. MOYA
JEFFREY M. MUNN
THOMAS D. MURPHY, JR.
JENNIFER A. MYKINS
BRIAN J. NEWILL
DAVID A. NORRIS
LANCE A. OBRYAN
CHRISTOPHER W. OGWIN
DAVID J. PAINTER
FREDRICK B. PARKER
MARC E. PELINI
SCOTT A. PENCE
ESTHER S. PINCHASIN
DANIEL P. RAYCA
GINA M. RICHARDSMCCLOSKEY
ALEXIS RIVERAESPADA
JASON H. ROSENSTRAUCH
MATTHEW L. ROWLAND
JOSHUA R. RUISANCHEZ
KAREN L. RUTKA
JOHN W. SANDOR
VICTOR R. SATTERLUND
BRIAN P. SCHOELLHORN
GERALD P. SCHUCK
JONATHAN K. SHAFFNER
KEVIN R. SHARP
MICHAEL J. SHOUSE
KENT G. SOLHEIM
ANDREW C. STEADMAN
MICHAEL P. STEWART
TED L. STOKES, JR.
MICHAEL A. STONE
JONATHAN S. STOVER
NATHAN S. SURREY
DANIEL L. SWANSON
KELVIN P. SWINT
STEPHEN C. TAYLOR
DOUGLAS M. THOMAS
JASON C. TOWNSEND
MATTHEW P. TUCKER
RICHARD P. TUCKER
DARYL S. VONHAGEL
KARIN L. WATSON
MARCUS S. WELCH
JASON L. WEST
SETH A. WHEELER
MICHAEL T. WHITNEY
KIRK J. WHITTENBERGER
ROBERT J. WISHAM
TIMOTHY L. WOODRUFF
MARCUS W. WRIGHT
MATTHEW T. ZIGLAR
D002263
D005922
D006292
D010375
D011554
D014888
D014896
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
RESERVE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be captain
MARTIN E. ROBERTS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
RESERVE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be captain
TODD W. GEYER
ERIC C. MCAFEE
ANTHONY J. SMOLA
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate June 5, 2019:
COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION
HEATH P. TARBERT, OF MARYLAND, TO BE CHAIRMAN
OF THE COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION.
HEATH P. TARBERT, OF MARYLAND, TO BE A COMMIS-
SIONER OF THE COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMIS-
SION FOR A TERM EXPIRING APRIL 13, 2024.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
SUSAN COMBS, OF TEXAS, TO BE AN ASSISTANT SEC-
RETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DAVID SCHENKER, OF NEW JERSEY, TO BE AN ASSIST-
ANT SECRETARY OF STATE (NEAR EASTERN AFFAIRS).
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS COMMANDANT OF THE MARINE CORPS AND APPOINT-
MENT IN THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS TO THE
GRADE INDICATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF
IMPORTANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10,
U.S.C., SECTIONS 601 AND 8043:
To be general
LT. GEN. DAVID H. BERGER
f
WITHDRAWAL
Executive Message transmitted by
the President to the Senate on June 5,
2019 withdrawing from further Senate
consideration the following nomina-
tion:
AMY KARPEL, OF WASHINGTON, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMIS-
SION FOR THE REMAINDER OF THE TERM EXPIRING
JUNE 16, 2020, VICE F. SCOTT KIEFF, RESIGNED, WHICH
WAS SENT TO THE SENATE ON JANUARY 16, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:51 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A05JN6.009 S05JNPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E713
June 5, 2019
COMMEMORATING THE 75TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF D-DAY AND RE-
MEMBERING THE MEMBERS OF
THE GREATEST GENERATION
WHO SAVED FREEDOM IN THE
WORLD
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, to-
morrow, June 6, marks the 75th anniversary of
Allied Forces’ audacious amphibious landing
at Normandy, France, on June 6, 1944.
This joint undertaking to liberate the con-
tinent of Europe from the clutches of an evil
aggressor enemy was the first and most em-
phatic demonstration of the invincible strength
of democratic nations when acting collectively.
For nearly seventy years, from April 4, 1949
to January 20, 2017, peace in Europe has
been secured and no adversary, not the old
Soviet Union or the contemporary Russian
Federation, has dared to risk war by attacking
a European ally of the United States because
every American president has made clear that
the United States is committed to Article V of
the North Atlantic Treaty which holds that an
attack on any NATO member is regarded as
an attack on all of them.
Madam Speaker, ‘‘Operation Overlord,’’ as
D-Day was formally known, was the largest
single amphibious assault in the history of
warfare.
The success of D-Day, which was far from
certain at the outset, led to the liberation of
Western Europe, signaled the death knell of
the German Wehrmacht, and paved the way
to unconditional victory by the Allied Forces
over the evils of Nazism, fascism, and Japa-
nese imperialism.
It is no exaggeration to say that D-Day
changed the course of human history.
The aim of the meticulously planned D-Day
operation was to open a second front in the
European war theater from which the Allied
Forces could attack the German army and
push east to capture Berlin.
With the Russian Army advancing from the
east, coupled with the southern front opened
by the Allied invasion of Italy from North Africa
in 1942, the opening of a western front would
set in motion the pincer movement that would
catch the German Army in a trap from which
there would be no escape.
The formidable German Army expected that
the Allied Forces would try to launch an inva-
sion from the western beaches of France.
They just did not know when or where.
So, in anticipation of an Allied invasion, the
Nazis constructed the infamous Atlantic Wall,
an extensive system of coastal fortifications
built along the western coast of Europe and
Scandinavia.
Under the direction of Field Marshal Rom-
mel, the Atlantic Wall was reinforced by the
addition of concrete pillboxes built along the
beaches to house machine guns, antitank
guns and light artillery.
Mines and antitank obstacles were planted
on the beaches themselves and underwater
obstacles and mines were placed in waters
just off shore.
By the time of the D-Day landing, the Nazis
had laid almost six million mines in northern
France.
And awaiting Allied soldiers who made their
way onto and away from the beaches were
gun emplacements and minefields extended
inland.
‘‘War is hell,’’ said General William Tecum-
seh Sherman during the Civil War.
And that is an apt description of what await-
ed the brave Allied warriors who set sail from
England to the beaches of Normandy in the
early morning of June 6, 1944, at the begin-
ning of what has rightly been called ‘‘The
Longest Day.’’
But they were buoyed in their resolve by the
millions of prayers from Americans and others
back home, of all races, religions, and creeds,
invoking the Lord’s blessing, mercy, and
grace.
With the outcome in doubt, President Frank-
lin Roosevelt asked the nation to join him in
this solemn prayer:
‘‘Almighty God: Our sons, pride of our na-
tion, this day have set upon a mighty en-
deavor, a struggle to preserve our Republic,
our religion, and our civilization, and to set
free a suffering humanity.
‘‘Lead them straight and true; give
strength to their arms, stoutness to their
hearts, steadfastness in their faith.
‘‘They will need Thy blessings.
‘‘For these men are lately drawn from the
ways of peace.
‘‘They fight not for the lust of conquest.
‘‘They fight to end conquest.
‘‘They fight to liberate.
‘‘They fight to let justice arise, and toler-
ance and goodwill among all Thy people.
‘‘They yearn but for the end of battle, for
their return to the haven of home.’’
The prayers were needed because the cost
of D-Day was high; U.S. casualties on D-Day
totaled more than 2,499 dead, 3,184 wound-
ed, 1,928 missing, and 26 captured.
Our British and Canadian allies suffered ter-
rible losses on D-Day as well: approximately
2,700 for the British and 946 for the Cana-
dians.
German casualties are estimated at 4,000 to
9,000.
In total, the number of combatants killed,
wounded or missing in the Battle of Normandy
for both sides exceeded 425,000, not including
the estimated 15,000 to 20,000 French civil-
ians killed.
But the operation was a success .
More than 156,000 troops or paratroopers
came ashore on D-Day, 73,000 from the U.S.,
83,000 from Great Britain and Canada.
By the end of June 11, D-Day +5, 326,547
troops, 54,186 vehicles and 104,428 tons of
supplies had come ashore.
And with them came the seeds for the vic-
tory in Europe that would come less than a
year later, on May 8, 1945, with the fall of Ber-
lin and the unconditional surrender of the
Nazis.
On the eve of the Normandy invasion, Gen-
eral Dwight D. Eisenhower, the Supreme
Commander of the Allied Forces, addressed
the soldiers, sailors, and airmen of the Allied
Expeditionary Forces and said to them that
they were about to embark upon a ‘‘Great
Crusade,’’ and that the ‘‘eyes of the world’’
were upon them.
He told them that their task would not be
easy because the ‘‘enemy is well trained, well
equipped and battle-hardened. He will fight
savagely.’’
But, General Eisenhower said, ‘‘this is the
year 1944. The tide has turned. The free men
of the world are marching together to victory.’’
And march to victory they did, fully justifying
General Eisenhower’s ‘‘confidence in their
courage, devotion to duty, and skill in battle.’’
Because of the heroism of these men who
willingly risked their lives to be the tip of the
spear of liberty, the war was won, and a world
was saved for freedom.
Madam Speaker, D-Day was, and remains,
a day like no other in the history of man’s so-
journ on earth.
We remember Gettysburg.
There, President Lincoln paid tribute to
those ‘‘who gave their lives so that the nation
might live.’’
It is equally fitting and proper that we never
forget D-Day and that we continue to honor
those who risked all and gave all so that the
light of freedom would never be extinguished
in the world.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. FREDERICA S. WILSON
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Ms. WILSON of Florida. Madam Speaker, I
was not present for the following votes be-
cause I remained in my congressional district
due to a death in the family.
Had I been present, I would have voted: yes
on Roll Call Vote No. 232; yes on Roll Call
Vote No. 233; yes on Roll Call Vote No. 234;
yes on Roll Call Vote No. 235; yes on Roll
Call Vote No. 236; yes on Roll Call Vote No.
237; yes on Roll Call Vote No. 238; no on Roll
Call Vote No. 239; and yes on Roll Call Vote
No. 240.
f
COMMEMORATING THE 115TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THAYER UNITED
METHODIST CHURCH
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, I would like
to recognize Thayer United Methodist Church
of Thayer, Illinois, for celebrating their 115th
anniversary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A05JN8.001 E05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E714 June 5, 2019
In 1904, Thayer United Methodist Church
was officially opened as a place of worship for
the residents of the town. Since then, the
church has grown immensely; it now provides
the area with far more than a place to pray.
This is where the residents of Thayer come to
make strides towards improving their local
community.
The Thayer United Methodist Church is
known throughout the area for the services
that it has provided for the community over the
last 115 years. Today, we celebrate the
church for their dedication to serving Thayer.
I extend my sincere congratulations to the
Thayer United Methodist Church for a suc-
cessful 115 years, and I wish them even more
success going forward.
f
HONORING LAUREN BROWN
HON. JOE WILSON
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, a biology teacher in the Second
Congressional District has been selected as
the 2019 Outstanding Biology Teacher of the
Year of South Carolina by the National Asso-
ciation of Biology Teachers (NABT).
According to the New Irmo News, ‘‘the
award is given annually to a teacher who
shows a passion for teaching biology. Each
state, province, and territory recognizes an
Outstanding Biology Teacher.’’
Ms. Lauren Brown has been teaching biol-
ogy for 9 years, the last five years have been
at Spring Hill High School. She was also hon-
ored as the American Legion Teacher of the
Year from Chapin Post 193. She has also
served for three years as a coaching teacher
with the University of South Carolina’s Edu-
cation program.
Our communities in the Second Congres-
sional District are grateful for leadership like
Ms. Lauren Brown’s. Congratulations to
Lauren for earning this distinct honor.
In conclusion, God Bless our Troops and we
will never forget September 11th in the Global
War on Terrorism.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. PETER A. DeFAZIO
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, on June 3,
2019, I missed Roll Call Number 234, On Ap-
proving the Journal, due to a longstanding
prior commitment. Had I been present, I would
have voted Yea.
f
GUN VIOLENCE PREVENTION
MONTH
HON. SYLVIA R. GARCIA
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to remind everyone that we have a
responsibility to do everything we can to ad-
dress the epidemic of senseless gun violence
that is plaguing our nation.
June is Gun Violence Prevention Month and
we must use this opportunity to come together
to not only raise awareness of gun violence
but also take action.
We’re reminded again after the recent Vir-
ginia Beach Shooting that too many of our
loved ones are lost to senseless gun violence
that could be prevented by keeping firearms
out of dangerous hands.
That is why I was proud to vote for H.R. 8
and urge my Senate colleagues to do the
same.
This common-sense bill will prevent private
firearm sales to prohibited purchasers, and
close online and gun show loopholes. Thus,
we will move towards ensuring firearms are
obtained responsibly.
While this bill does not cover everything, it
is a step in the right direction that will make
the United States safer for our families and
communities.
f
CONGRATULATING KENN AND
BETH ZELTEN FOR BEING
NAMED 2019 CITIZEN DRIVERS
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it’s my
honor to recognize Kenn and Beth Zelten for
being named 2019 Citizen Drivers. Through
their dedicated service, exceptional leadership,
and steadfast devotion to their community,
Kenn and Beth have become an indispensable
part of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan.
The Citizen Driver program honors the hard-
working professional truck drivers that dem-
onstrate good citizenship, safety, community
involvement, and leadership. None are more
deserving of this honor than Kenn and Beth.
During their more than 30-year career as a
team, they have driven nearly 5 million miles,
receiving multiple awards for their customer
service, safety, efficiency, and overall excel-
lence. When they’re not driving, Kenn and
Beth are active in their community—supporting
charities like the St. Christopher Fund, The
Salvation Army, Mission of Hope, and
Landstar BCO Benevolence Fund, and work-
ing with several groups to help the less fortu-
nate like Abundant Life Mission and Project
Give.
There are more than 3.5 million professional
truck drivers in the United States. While their
work often goes unnoticed and underappre-
ciated, it is vital to keeping our economy mov-
ing and daily life on track. Programs like Cit-
izen Driver are a tremendous opportunity for
us to recognize the hard work and dedication
of professional drivers like Kenn and Beth that
go above and beyond and serve as role mod-
els for every American.
Madam Speaker, it’s my honor to congratu-
late Kenn and Beth Zelten for their decades of
service and for being named 2019 Citizen
Drivers. Michiganders can take great pride in
knowing the First District is home to such self-
less and devoted individuals. On behalf of my
constituents, I wish Kenn and Beth all the best
in their future endeavors.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. MARK POCAN
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Mr. POCAN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained from the floor on Monday,
June 3rd. Had I been present, I would have
voted YEA on Roll Call No. 232, YEA on Roll
Call No. 233, and YEA on Roll Call No. 234.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF COLONEL
RICHARD BELAND
HON. ELAINE G. LURIA
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Mrs. LURIA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor life of Colonel Richard Beland of
Poquoson, Virginia—a dedicated patriot and
public servant who passed away surrounded
by family on Friday, May 10, 2019.
His 30 years of service in the United States
Air Force included training students for a dec-
ade, flying 290 combat missions in Vietnam,
serving as an Advance Agent for Support and
Security for Air Force One for two different ad-
ministrations, and serving as a member of the
NATO Flight Safety Group. Following his re-
tirement in 1989, Colonel Beland served his
local Poquoson Community’s Board of Zoning
Appeals for 18 years, with eight of those years
as Chairman. He also faithfully served as a
lector and usher at Langley Air Force Base
Chapel.
Colonel Beland’s dedication to his country
and local community brings great honor to our
district. I am proud to recognize Colonel
Beland’s leadership and the role he played in
making America a better place.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, as an
original co-sponsor of H.R. 6—American
Dream and Promise Act, I would have voted
YES on roll call No. 240, had I been present.
f
TORNADOES AND HEROISM
HON. WARREN DAVIDSON
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in support of heroes, in support of
unity, and in support of the compassion that I
witnessed in the Eighth District of Ohio after
19 tornadoes devastated Southwestern Ohio
last week.
On May 27th, communities in Mercer,
Miami, Darke, and Preble Counties, and coun-
ties adjacent to the Eighth District, were dev-
astated by tornadoes with winds upwards of
140 miles per hour.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A05JN8.003 E05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E715
June 5, 2019
My wife Lisa and I took shelter in our base-
ment as the storms passed. The totality of the
destruction emerged with Tuesday’s sunrise.
The caved roofs, toppled power lines, and
staircases without surrounding structures gave
powerful testimony to the violence of the
storms.
Despite the terrible destruction in our dis-
trict, we also saw signs of hope. Our commu-
nities always come together to help one an-
other in times of need. It is why southwest
Ohio is such a special place to call home.
Our first responders do an amazing job.
There were no Democrats, no Republicans;
there were just neighbors helping neighbors.
It’s too bad that it often takes a tragedy to
highlight this special quality in us, but it is
there—and it is a great thing to see.
I want to thank our first responders, Ohio
Senators PORTMAN and BROWN for their lead-
ership during this time of crisis, the Ohio dele-
gation, Governor DeWine, and leaders across
the country who are standing with the people
of Ohio.
Madam Speaker, as relief and recovery ef-
forts continue in Southwest Ohio, I use my
time on the floor today to honor the heroes
and survivors. We will rebuild and be stronger
than before.
f
RECOGNIZING THE RE-ESTABLISH-
MENT OF NON-STOP TRANS-
ATLANTIC FLIGHTS BETWEEN
THE UNITED STATES AND THE
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
HON. NANETTE DIAZ BARRAGÁN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Ms. BARRAGÁN. Madam Speaker, as Co-
Chair of the Congressional Croatian Caucus, I
rise today to bring attention to a very special
milestone scheduled to take flight this coming
Friday. On June 7, 2019, for the first time in
twenty-eight years, non-stop transatlantic air
travel will occur between the United States
and the Republic of Croatia. American Airlines
will have the honor of transporting passengers
directly from Philadelphia International Airport
to Dubrovnik International Airport in Croatia.
This event is especially momentous to me
because my congressional district is home to
the largest concentration of Croatians living in
the United States. In fact, several of my con-
stituents from San Pedro, California, will be on
hand in Philadelphia to witness the inaugural
flight and celebrate this exciting partnership
with fellow Croatians, Croatian government of-
ficials, diplomats, and prominent civic leaders
from Philadelphia.
The return to direct non-stop air service is
yet another example of the United States’
strong economic and political relationship with
Croatia, a very important NATO ally. For me
and my constituents, this new chapter will not
only enhance these relationships but create
opportunities to connect our communities and
cultures. With this in mind, I am including in
the RECORD a letter from Steven Rukavina,
President of the National Federation of Cro-
atian Americans, to Philadelphia Mayor Jim
Kenney underscoring the significance of this
first flight from Philadelphia and the strength-
ened relationship that will result between our
two countries.
I wish this new endeavor between the
United States and Croatia every success and
look forward to one day soon being a pas-
senger on this flight.
NATIONAL FEDERATION OF CROATIAN
AMERICANS CULTURAL FOUNDATION,
Washington, DC, May 10, 2019.
Hon. JIM KENNEY,
Mayor, Philadelphia, PA.
DEAR MAYOR KENNEY: On behalf of the Na-
tional Federation of Croatian Americans
Cultural Foundation (NFCA), and as a proud
resident of Philadelphia, please allow me to
share with you a quickly approaching mile-
stone for our City.
The Croatian American community is so
pleased that we will see the Croatian flag
raised at City Hall on Friday, June 7th. Of
course, we are thrilled that you and so many
of Philadelphia’s civic and business leaders
will attend the Croatian gala celebration at
the National Constitutional Center on June
6th, too.
These events will salute the first commer-
cial non-stop flight in twenty-eight years
from the United States to Croatia, which
will depart Philadelphia International Air-
port on the evening of June 7. This historic
American Airlines flight will touch down on
Croatia’s Adriatic coast in the City of
Dubrovnik the next morning. I must say that
I am very honored to be able to fly on this
inaugural flight that night.
The non-stop flights that will follow will
directly connect our World Heritage City of
Philadelphia to the City of Dubrovnik—
which is known as the ‘‘Pearl of the Adri-
atic’’ and which has also been included as a
UNESCO World Heritage site since 1979. This
important Croatian city holds historic rel-
evance as a significant Mediterranean port
and sea power since the 13th century.
Dubrovnik flourished really well throughout
the 15th and 17th centuries and was lauded
internationally for its skilled diplomacy and
wealth! It is also historic and coincidental
that the Republic of Ragusa—an aristocratic
maritime republic that once included
Dubrovnik—was one of the first political en-
tities to recognize the independence of the
United States of America in the 1770s.
In the coming years tourism between our
two countries will only grow, and Americans
will be able to further engage in the rich cul-
ture and history of Croatia. These newly in-
augurated American Airlines non-stop
flights will specifically allow Philadelphians
the ease and comfort of non-stop travel to
the Adriatic Coast. This will prompt many in
our City to take a unique trip that they may
not have before considered. This kind of un-
precedented access will also draw many tour-
ists to visit Philadelphia, too, as the depar-
ture city for their travels to and from Cro-
atia.
The Croatian American community has
also held a significant place in the history of
the State of Pennsylvania. Croatian Amer-
ican immigration helped to significantly
propel the steel industry in the western part
of our Pennsylvania during the Second In-
dustrial Revolution. Significantly, the Cro-
atian Fraternal Union of America (CFU),
which is now headquartered in Monroeville
PA, will celebrate its 125th anniversary from
September 21–25 in Pittsburgh.
The special bond between the U.S. and Cro-
atia has been further strengthened during
the past ten years with Croatia’s 2009 ascen-
sion into full membership in the North At-
lantic Treaty Organization (NATO). This
multilateral Euro-Atlantic security alliance
membership and treaty, now has only fur-
ther cemented the strong bilateral relation-
ship between our two nations over the last
ten years.
Looking to the future—with Croatia as-
suming the Presidency of the European
Union in January, 2020—we hope to build on
the success of these important air flight ac-
tivities beginning in June via additional
global-oriented events within the Common-
wealth of Pennsylvania during 2020, espe-
cially in our City of Philadelphia.
We applaud all your efforts to promote
Philadelphia as a global destination for tour-
ism, for international business growth, and
now as a bridge to the City of Dubrovnik, an-
other World Heritage site with a special bond
to our historic American city!
Sincerely,
STEVE RUKAVINA,
President, National Federation of
Croatian Americans Cultural Foundation.
f
HONORING THE WORK OF KOJO
NNAMDI
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to ask the House of Representatives to join
me in recognizing Kojo Nnamdi and The Kojo
Nnamdi Show for two decades on air with
WAMU 88.5, Washington’s National Public
Radio news station.
No other local radio program brings the
depth, sensitivity and familiarity with the impor-
tant issues of the Washington, D.C. region
better than The Kojo Nnamdi Show. Hosted by
the universally beloved Kojo Nnamdi, the
show has been at the center of critical con-
versations about society, community, race,
housing, education, politics, the arts and more
for 20 years.
While divisiveness has become the talk
show norm, Nnamdi takes the time to create
thoughtful dialogue—engendering trust among
guests and listeners alike. Whether talking to
citizens or politicians, he generates honest,
productive discussions with guests, incor-
porating engagement with listeners.
Nnamdi makes it a priority to meet people
where their lives happen—in the community.
Nnamdi’s conversations in communities
around the region amplify the voices of those
who would not be.
A native of Guyana, Nnamdi moved to D.C.
in 1969 to engage with the civil rights move-
ment. Now a longtime D.C. resident, Nnamdi
brings both a global perspective and vast
knowledge of the region to front page head-
lines and explores emerging stories before
they are news.
From 1973 to 1985, Nnamdi worked at
WHUR-FM, where he served as news editor
and then news director, producing the award-
winning local news program The Daily Drum.
From 1985 to 2011, he hosted Evening Ex-
change, a public affairs television program
broadcast by WHUT-TV at Howard University.
Nnamdi became host of a WAMU program
called Public Interest in August 1998, and the
name was changed to The Kojo Nnamdi Show
in September 2002.
In 2001, Nnamdi was honored as a civil
rights hero by the National Council for Com-
munity Justice. In 2003, the Library of Con-
gress selected Nnamdi as the keynote speak-
er for African American History Month. In addi-
tion to his hosting duties, Nnamdi has chaired
the board of the Public Access Corporation of
Washington, D.C. for the past 25 years. In
2014, Nnamdi was inducted into the Hall of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A05JN8.011 E05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E716 June 5, 2019
Fame of the D.C. chapter of the Society of
Professional Journalists, and in 2018, he was
inducted into the D.C. Hall of Fame Society.
The Kojo Nnamdi Show has won numerous
awards, including multiple Public Radio News
Directors Incorporated and Associated Press
honors, as well as the National Association of
Black Broadcasters Salute to Excellence
Award.
Over the years, Nnamdi has taken listeners
on both intellectual and emotional journeys
around the rapidly evolving Washington re-
gion. He has convened critical conversations
for 20 years at the heart of change.
Madam Speaker, I ask the House to please
join me in recognizing Kojo Nnamdi and The
Kojo Nnamdi Show for 20 years of dedicated
work in the Washington, D.C. area.
f
CELEBRATING THE 100TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF ST. IGNATIUS OF
LOYOLA CATHOLIC PARISH
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it’s my
honor to recognize the 100th anniversary of
St. Ignatius of Loyola Catholic Parish in Rog-
ers City, Michigan. Through its dedication to
education, faith, and its local community, St.
Ignatius has become an indispensable part of
Michigan’s First District.
Founded in 1919 by Father C.T.
Skowronski, St. Ignatius Church grew rapidly
to serve the thriving community and growing
Catholic congregation during the early 20th
century. Over the next 100 years, St. Ignatius
continued its success and worked to fulfill its
mission of faith-filled liturgies, hospitality,
evangelization, family life, and life-long edu-
cation. The parish’s dedication to its local
community serves as an example for every
person in Northern Michigan, and its impact
on Michigan’s First District cannot be under-
stated. As Saint Ignatius of Loyola said, ‘‘Love
is shown more in deeds than in words.’’
Madam Speaker, it’s my honor to congratu-
late St. Ignatius of Loyola Catholic Parish and
its parishioners for 100 years of success, serv-
ice, and faith. Michiganders can take great
pride in knowing the First District is home to
such dedicated citizens. On behalf of my con-
stituents, I wish them all the best in its future
endeavors.
f
HONORING THE ARIZONA PUBLIC
SERVICE WORKERS WHO HELPED
RESTORE ELECTRICITY TO
PUERTO RICO
HON. RUBEN GALLEGO
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Mr. GALLEGO. Madam Speaker, it is my
privilege to honor the service of dozens of Ari-
zonans who worked around the clock to repair
the Puerto Rican electrical grid in the after-
math of Hurricanes Irma and Maria. Their life-
saving efforts helped restore food production,
transportation, education, and health care
services.
In the fall of 2017, Irma and Maria struck
Puerto Rico in quick succession, less than two
weeks apart. A Category 4 storm, Maria’s 155
mph winds and rainfall compounded Irma’s
damage, and further devastated an island that
is deeply vulnerable to the extremes of climate
change. Flash floods and high winds damaged
neighborhoods, houses, roads, schools, and
businesses in a matter of mere hours. The
storm also completely destroyed Puerto Rico’s
electric grid: 89 percent, or 2,100 miles of the
island’s transmission lines, and 24,000 miles
of distribution lines, were gone.
This was the largest blackout in United
States history. All 3.4 million of our fellow
Americans in Puerto Rico lost power, including
those for whom access to electricity can make
the difference between life and death. Thou-
sands of citizens, for example, rely on elec-
tricity for essential medical needs—to power
their respirators, refrigerate their insulin, and
sustain their dialysis treatments.
In the wake of Maria’s landfall, with death
tolls rising to 2,700, Puerto Ricans went to
sleep each night in total darkness and uncer-
tainty. This is why we recognize the commit-
ment of the 83 Arizona Public Service line
workers who, between January and March of
2018, traveled 3,000 miles from Arizona to
Puerto Rico to rebuild and reenergize the is-
land’s electric grid. These Arizonans left their
families for more than six weeks to work
alongside new friends and fellow Americans in
Puerto Rico. Together in partnership with
Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority (PREPA)
and 12 other public power utilities, APS work-
ers helped install 5,000 poles and 4,400 miles
of wire, restoring power to 97 percent of the
island’s residents.
I want to thank them for their service at a
time of such dire need. As Puerto Ricans con-
tinue to rebuild after the hurricane, residents
have rallied around the saying, ‘‘Puerto Rico
se levanta!’’—Puerto Rico is rising again! But
the APS line workers who served in Puerto
Rico have demonstrated something more:
‘‘Cuando Puerto Rico se levanta, el mundo se
levanta también.’’ When Puerto Rico rises, the
rest of the world rises in tandem, alongside
them.
f
IN HONOR OF ALVIN HUSTON
PERRY
HON. ANDY BARR
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Mr. BARR. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of a special man, Mr. Alvin
Huston Perry of Lawrenceburg, Kentucky. Mr.
Perry is part of a special group of heroes that
served our nation during World War II.
Mr. Perry was born in August of 1923 and
grew up on a farm in rural Anderson County.
He was drafted into the United States Army in
November of 1943. He was assigned to the
331st Infantry Regiment, 83rd Infantry Divi-
sion. Mr. Perry’s unit was part of the second
wave of men to land on Omaha Beach after
the D-Day invasion. German forces surprised
Perry’s company as fighting ensued in the
hedgerows in Normandy. Mr. Perry was in-
jured in the shoulder and his company was
captured. He was taken to a German field
hospital in Ruins, France where he was treat-
ed, From there, he was taken to Stalag XII–
A in Limburg, Germany and later to Stalag
VII–A in Musburg, Germany. He and his fellow
prisoners lived in boxcars and were taken to
Munich every day to work. He was a prisoner
of war from July 1944 to April 1945.
Following liberation by American forces, Mr.
Perry returned to serve stateside. At the war’s
end, he farmed and created a milk route deliv-
ering milk containers from dairy farms to dis-
tribution plants. He married his sweetheart
Oneida, who he met in grade school.
Mr. Perry earned a Purple Heart, a Prisoner
of War Medal, a Good Conduct Medal, and a
WWII Victory Medal. He will be honored on
June 7, 2019 with the French Legion of Honor,
the highest decoration bestowed in France.
Mr. Perry and his fellow veterans are true
heroes. As members of the ‘‘Greatest Genera-
tion’’, they willingly served to protect and de-
fend the freedoms that we enjoy today. I am
humbled to honor the service of Mr. Alvin
Huston Perry before the United States Con-
gress.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE
OF RICKIE SPROULE
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it is my
honor to recognize the life and service of
Rickie Sproule. As a proud Veteran of the
United States Marine Corps, Rickie has prov-
en himself to be an indispensable part of
Michigan’s First District.
The Continental Marines were formed by
decree of the Second Continental Congress
on November 10, 1775. Since the Revolu-
tionary War, Marines served with the Amer-
ican Expeditionary Force on the Western Front
of WWI, island hopped in the Pacific, landed
on the beaches of North Korea, fought to pro-
tect the Republic of Vietnam, and defended
Americans from the threat of global terrorism.
Rickie served a crucial role during his service
in the Marines, maintaining jet engines and
ensuring the safety and fighting capacity of
our Airmen. His unwavering devotion to duty
perfectly exemplifies the spirit of the U.S. Ma-
rine Corps. We owe Rickie and his brothers in
arms an enormous debt of gratitude. He has
served our nation willingly, honorably, and
without bias.
Madam Speaker, it’s my honor today to ac-
knowledge the extraordinary life of Rickie
Sproule. I ask that you join with me and the
people of Michigan’s First District in thanking
him for his unwavering commitment to our na-
tion and its people.
f
HONORING THE NAVY LEAGUE OF
THE UNITED STATES
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, over the years, the Navy League of the
United States has compiled an impressive
record of accomplishments and is widely re-
spected by both the private and public sector.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:35 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A05JN8.014 E05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E717
June 5, 2019
Navy League programs are welcomed in com-
munities throughout the nation and its mem-
bers are recognized for their integrity and pa-
triotism.
In the words of President Theodore Roo-
sevelt, ‘‘It seems to me that all good Ameri-
cans interested in the growth of their country
and sensitive to its honor should give hearty
support to the policies which the Navy League
is founded. For the building and maintaining in
proper shape of the American Navy, we must
rely on nothing but the broad and farsighted
patriotism of our people as a whole.’’
In keeping with the wisdom and principles of
President Theodore Roosevelt, it is my honor
and privilege before the 116th Congress to
recognize the 50,000 members and over 250
Councils of the Navy League of the United
States at its National Convention June 19 to
22, 2019.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
June 6, 2019 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
JUNE 11
10 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine data bro-
kers and the impact on financial data
privacy, credit, insurance, employ-
ment, and housing.
SD–538
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine the crisis at
the southwest border, including S. 1494,
to amend the William Wilberforce Traf-
ficking Victims Protection Reauthor-
ization Act of 2008 to protect alien mi-
nors and to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to end abuse of the
asylum system and establish refugee
application and processing centers out-
side the United States.
SD–226
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear
Safety
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of William B. Kilbride, of Ten-
nessee, to be a Member of the Board of
Directors of the Tennessee Valley Au-
thority.
SD–406
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property
To hold hearings to examine the state of
patent eligibility in America.
SD–226
United States Senate Caucus on Inter-
national Narcotics Control
To hold hearings to examine the global
narcotics epidemic and the United
States strategy to confront the rising
epidemic.
SD–215
JUNE 12
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
the Federal Communications Commis-
sion.
SD–G50
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
Subcommittee on Fisheries, Water, and
Wildlife
To hold a joint hearing to examine
Waters of the United States regula-
tions, focusing on their impact on
states and the American people.
SD–406
10:30 a.m.
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe
To hold hearings to examine Russia’s
counterproductive counterterrorism.
RHOB–2255
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Chad F. Wolf, of Virginia, to be
Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy,
and Plans, Jeffrey Byard, of Alabama,
to be Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, and
Troy D. Edgar, of California, to be
Chief Financial Officer, all of the De-
partment of Homeland Security, John
McLeod Barger, of California, to be a
Governor of the United States Postal
Service, and B. Chad Bungard, of Mary-
land, to be a Member of the Merit Sys-
tems Protection Board.
SD–342
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition
Policy and Consumer Rights
To hold hearings to examine competitive
implications of vertical consolidation
in the healthcare industry.
SD–226
Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship
To hold hearings to examine reauthoriza-
tion of the Small Business Administra-
tion’s contracting programs.
SR–428A
3 p.m.
Committee on Finance
Subcommittee on International Trade,
Customs, and Global Competitiveness
To hold hearings to examine China’s belt
and road initiative.
SD–215
JUNE 13
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry
To hold hearings to examine certainty in
global markets for the United States
agriculture sector.
SR–328A
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A05JN8.019 E05JNPT1
D628
Wednesday, June 5, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S3223–S3270
Measures Introduced: Thirty-seven bills and thir-
ty-two resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
1717–1753, S.J. Res. 27–48, S. Res. 231–239, and
S. Con. Res. 19. Pages S3250–53
Measures Reported:
H.R. 1590, to require an exercise related to ter-
rorist and foreign fighter travel. (S. Rept. No.
116–44) Page S3250
Measures Passed:
Honoring the Nation’s First Responders Day:
Senate agreed to S. Con. Res. 15, expressing support
for the designation of October 28, 2019, as ‘‘Hon-
oring the Nation’s First Responders Day’’.
Pages S3266–67
Measuring the Economic Impact of Broadband
Act: Committee on Commerce, Science, and Trans-
portation was discharged from further consideration
of S. 1289, to require the Secretary of Commerce to
conduct an assessment and analysis of the effects of
broadband deployment and adoption on the economy
of the United States, and the bill was then passed.
Page S3267
Protecting Affordable Mortgages for Veterans
Act: Senate passed S. 1749, to clarify seasoning re-
quirements for certain refinanced mortgage loans.
Page S3267
National Fishing and Boating Week: Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation was dis-
charged from further consideration of S. Res. 174,
expressing support for the designation of the week
of June 1, 2019, through June 9, 2019, as ‘‘National
Fishing and Boating Week’’, and the resolution was
then agreed to. Pages S3267–68
30th anniversary of the Tiananmen Square
massacre: Committee on Foreign Relations was dis-
charged from further consideration of S. Res. 221,
recognizing the 30th anniversary of the Tiananmen
Square massacre and condemning the intensifying re-
pression and human rights violations by the Chinese
Communist Party and the use of surveillance by Chi-
nese authorities, and the resolution was then agreed
to. Page S3068
National Crime Victims’ Rights Week: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 237, supporting the mission and
goals of National Crime Victims’ Rights Week in
2019, which include increasing public awareness of
the rights, needs, and concerns of, and services avail-
able to assist, victims and survivors of crime in the
United States. Page S3268
Hemp History Week: Senate agreed to S. Res.
238, designating the week of June 3 through June
9, 2019, as ‘‘Hemp History Week’’. Page S3268
Great Outdoors Month: Senate agreed to S. Res.
239, designating June 2019 as ‘‘Great Outdoors
Month’’. Page S3268
Bahrain and Qatar Resolutions of Disapproval—
Agreement: A unanimous-consent-time agreement
was reached providing that with respect to S.J. Res.
20, relating to the disapproval of the proposed sale
to the Government of Bahrain of certain defense arti-
cles and services, and S.J. Res. 26, relating to the
disapproval of the proposed sale to the Government
of Qatar of certain defense articles and services, Sen-
ator Paul, or his designee, be recognized at a time
to be determined by the Majority Leader, in con-
sultation with the Democratic Leader, but no later
than Friday, June 14, 2019, to make a motion to
discharge such resolution; that there be up to an
hour of debate on each motion equally divided be-
tween the proponents and the opponents, with 7
minutes reserved for both the Chairman and Rank-
ing Member respectively, prior to each vote; that fol-
lowing the use or yielding back of that time, Senate
vote on or in relation to the motion to discharge;
and that if either motion to discharge is agreed to,
the Joint Resolution be eligible for the expedited
procedures under the Arms Export Control Act.
Page S3268
Holte Nomination—Agreement: By 60 yeas to 33
nays (Vote No. EX. 142), Senate agreed to the mo-
tion to close further debate on the nomination of
Ryan T. Holte, of Ohio, to be a Judge of the United
States Court of Federal Claims. Pages S3235–36
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D05JN9.REC D05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D629
June 5, 2019
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 3 p.m., on Monday,
June 10, 2019, Senate resume consideration of the
nomination; and that notwithstanding the provisions
of Rule XXII, the motions to invoke cloture filed
during the session of Wednesday, June 5, 2019,
ripen upon disposition of the nomination of Richard
A. Hertling, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the
United States Court of Federal Claims. Page S3268
Alston Nomination—Cloture: By 74 yeas to 19
nays (Vote No. EX. 143), Senate agreed to the mo-
tion to close further debate on the nomination of
Rossie David Alston, Jr., of Virginia, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Vir-
ginia. Page S3536
Hertling Nomination—Cloture: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of Richard A.
Hertling, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the United
States Court of Federal Claims. Page S3537
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 66 yeas to 23 nays (Vote No. EX. 144), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S3536
Morrison Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Sarah Daggett Morri-
son, of Ohio, to be United States District Judge for
the Southern District of Ohio. Page S3237
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, and pursuant to the unanimous-consent
agreement of Wednesday, June 5, 2019, a vote on
cloture will upon disposition of the nomination of
Richard A. Hertling, of Maryland, to be a Judge of
the United States Court of Federal Claims.
Page S3237
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S3237
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S3237
Barker Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Pamela A. Barker, of
Ohio, to be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Ohio. Page S3237
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Sarah Daggett Morrison, of
Ohio, to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Ohio. Page S3237
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S3237
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S3237
Maze Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Corey Landon Maze, of
Alabama, to be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Alabama. Page S3237
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Pamela A. Barker, of Ohio, to
be United States District Judge for the Northern
District of Ohio. Page S3237
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S3237
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S3237
Smith Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Rodney Smith, of Flor-
ida, to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Florida. Page S3237
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Corey Landon Maze, of Ala-
bama, to be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Alabama. Page S3237
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S3237
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S3237
Barber Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Thomas P. Barber,
of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the
Middle District of Florida. Page S3738
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Rodney Smith, of Florida, to
be United States District Judge for the Southern
District of Florida. Page S3738
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S3738
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D05JN9.REC D05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D630 June 5, 2019
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination.
Pages S3737–38
Boulee Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Jean-Paul Boulee, of
Georgia, to be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Georgia. Page S3738
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Thomas P. Barber, of Florida,
to be United States District Judge for the Middle
District of Florida. Page S3738
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S3738
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S3738
Stilwell Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of David Stilwell, of
Hawaii, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (East
Asian and Pacific Affairs). Page S3738
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Jean-Paul Boulee, of Georgia,
to be United States District Judge for the Northern
District of Georgia. Page S3738
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S3738
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S3738
Crawford Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the nomination of Edward F.
Crawford, of Ohio, to be Ambassador to Ireland.
Page S3738
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of David Stilwell, of Hawaii, to
be an Assistant Secretary of State (East Asian and
Pacific Affairs). Page S3738
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S3738
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S3738
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
By 83 yeas to 11 nays (Vote No. EX. 137), David
Schenker, of New Jersey, to be an Assistant Secretary
of State (Near Eastern Affairs). Pages S3227–28, S3270
By 84 yeas to 9 nays (Vote No. EX. 138), Heath
P. Tarbert, of Maryland, to be Chairman of the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Pages S3228, S3270
By 85 yeas to 9 nays (Vote No. EX. 139), Heath
P. Tarbert, of Maryland, to be a Commissioner of
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for a
term expiring April 13, 2024. Pages S3228, S3270
By 57 yeas to 36 nays (Vote No. EX. 141), Susan
Combs, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of the
Interior. Pages S3229–35
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 56 yeas to 37 nays (Vote No. EX. 140), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Pages S3228–29
1 Marine Corps nomination in the rank of general.
Pages S3245, S3270
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Amy Karpel, of Washington, to be a Member of
the United States International Trade Commission
for a term expiring June 16, 2023.
Kelley Eckels Currie, of Georgia, to be Ambas-
sador at Large for Global Women’s Issues.
Kenneth Charles Canterbury, Jr., of South Caro-
lina, to be Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms, and Explosives.
28 Army nominations in the rank of general.
1 Navy nomination in the rank of admiral.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, and Navy.
Pages S3268–70
Nomination Withdrawn: Senate received notifica-
tion of withdrawal of the following nomination:
Amy Karpel, of Washington, to be a Member of
the United States International Trade Commission
for the remainder of the term expiring June 16,
2020, which was sent to the Senate on January 16,
2019. Page S3270
Messages from the House: Page S3749
Measures Read the First Time: Page S3749
Executive Communications: Pages S3749–50
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S3250
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S3253–55
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S3255–66
Additional Statements: Pages S3247–48
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S3266
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D05JN9.REC D05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D631
June 5, 2019
Privileges of the Floor: Page S3266
Record Votes: Eight record votes were taken today.
(Total—144) Pages S3228–29, S3235–36
Adjournment: Senate convened at 9:30 a.m. and
adjourned at 6:21 p.m., until 10:30 a.m. on Thurs-
day, June 6, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S3268.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
DEFENSE INNOVATION AND RESEARCH
FUNDING
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ment of Defense concluded a closed hearing to exam-
ine defense innovation and research funding, after re-
ceiving testimony from Michael D. Griffin, Under
Secretary for Research and Engineering, and Steven
H. Walker, Director, Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency, both of the Department of Defense.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine the
nominations of Thomas Peter Feddo, of Virginia, to
be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Investment
Security, Nazak Nikakhtar, of Maryland, to be
Under Secretary for Industry and Security, and Ian
Paul Steff, of Indiana, to be Assistant Secretary and
Director General of the United States and Foreign
Commercial Service, both of the Department of
Commerce, Michelle Bowman, of Kansas, to be a
Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, Paul Shmotolokha, of Washington,
to be First Vice President of the Export-Import
Bank of the United States, and Allison Herren Lee,
of Colorado, to be a Member of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, after the nominees testified
and answered questions in their own behalf.
STATE OF THE TELEVISION AND VIDEO
MARKETPLACE
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine the state
of the television and video marketplace, after receiv-
ing testimony from Michael K. Powell, NCTA—The
Internet and Television Association, Gordon H.
Smith, National Association of Broadcasters, and
Craig Aaron, Free Press Action, all of Washington,
D.C.; and David Kenny, Nielsen, New York, New
York.
NOMINATION
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine the nomination of
Robert Wallace, of Wyoming, to be Assistant Sec-
retary of the Interior for Fish and Wildlife, after the
nominee, who was introduced by Senators Enzi and
Barrasso, testified and answered questions in his own
behalf.
THREATS TO TAXPAYER-FUNDED
RESEARCH
Committee on Finance: Committee concluded a hearing
to examine foreign threats to taxpayer-funded re-
search, focusing on oversight opportunities and pol-
icy solutions, after receiving testimony from Captain
Michael Schmoyer, Public Health Service, Assistant
Deputy Secretary for National Security, Director, Of-
fice of National Security, Lawrence A. Tabak, Prin-
cipal Deputy Director, National Institutes of Health,
and Leslie W. Hollie, Chief of Investigative Oper-
ations, Office of Inspector General, all of the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services; Louis A. Rodi
III, Acting Assistant Director, National Security In-
vestigations Division, Homeland Security Investiga-
tions, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, De-
partment of Homeland Security; and Joe W. Gray,
Oregon Health and Science University Knight Can-
cer Institute, Portland.
30 YEARS AFTER TIANANMEN
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded
a hearing to examine 30 years after Tiananmen, fo-
cusing on rule by fear, after receiving testimony
from Xiao Qiang, China Digital Times, Berkeley,
California; Sophie Richardson, Human Rights
Watch, New York, New York; and Christopher
Walker, National Endowment for Democracy, Wash-
ington, D.C.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the nominations of Peter Joseph
Phipps, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Third Circuit, William Shaw Stickman
IV, to be United States District Judge for the West-
ern District of Pennsylvania, and Jennifer Philpott
Wilson, to be United States District Judge for the
Middle District of Pennsylvania, who were intro-
duced by Senators Casey and Toomey, and Charles
R. Eskridge III, to be United States District Judge
for the Southern District of Texas, after the nomi-
nees testified and answered questions in their own
behalf.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D05JN9.REC D05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D632 June 5, 2019
STATE OF PATENT ELIGIBILITY IN
AMERICA
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Intellec-
tual Property concluded a hearing to examine the
state of patent eligibility in America, after receiving
testimony from Barbara A. Fiacco, American Intel-
lectual Property Law Association, Arlington, Vir-
ginia; Scott Partridge, American Bar Association,
Houston, Texas; Henry Hadad, Intellectual Property
Owners Association, Princeton, New Jersey; David
Jones, High Tech Inventors Alliance, Stephanie
Martz, National Retail Federation, on behalf of
United for Patent Reform, William Jenks, The
Internet Association, Christopher A. Mohr, Software
and Information Industry Association, Jeffrey K.
Francer, Association for Accessible Medicines, Hans
Sauer, Biotechnology Innovation Organization, and
Natalie Derzko, Covington and Burling LLP, on be-
half of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufactur-
ers of America, all of Washington, D.C.; Paul
Morinville, US Inventor, Inc., Highland, Indiana;
Philip S. Johnson, Coalition for 21st Century Patent
Reform, New Brunswick, New Jersey; Jeffrey A.
Birchak, Fallbrook Technologies, Inc., Austin, Texas,
on behalf of the Innovation Alliance; Rick Brandon,
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, on behalf of the
Association of American Universities; and Kate
Ruane, American Civil Liberties Union, New York,
New York.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Committee ordered fa-
vorably reported the nomination of James Byrne, of
Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 51 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 3100–3150; and 3 resolutions, H.
Res. 427–429, were introduced. Pages H4341–43
Additional Cosponsors: Page H4345
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H.R. 1595, to create protections for depository in-
stitutions that provide financial services to cannabis-
related legitimate businesses and service providers for
such businesses, and for other purposes, with an
amendment (H. Rept. 116–104, Part 1). Page H4341
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Coastal and Ocean Acidification Stressors and
Threats Research Act of 2019: H.R. 1237, amend-
ed, to amend the Federal Ocean Acidification Re-
search and Monitoring Act of 2009 to establish an
Ocean Acidification Advisory Board, to expand and
improve the research on Ocean Acidification and
Coastal Acidification, to establish and maintain a
data archive system for Ocean Acidification data and
Coastal Acidification data; Pages H4318–25
Coastal Communities Ocean Acidification Act of
2019: H.R. 1716, amended, to direct the Secretary
of Commerce, acting through the Administrator of
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, to conduct coastal community vulnerability as-
sessments related to ocean acidification;
Pages H4325–27
Ocean Acidification Innovation Act of 2019:
H.R. 1921, amended, to authorize Federal agencies
to establish prize competitions for innovation or ad-
aptation management development relating to ocean
acidification, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 395 yeas
to 22 nays, Roll No. 241; and
Pages H4327–29, H4331–32
National Estuaries and Acidification Research
Act of 2019: H.R. 988, amended, to provide for a
study by the Ocean Studies Board of the National
Academies of Science examining the impact of ocean
acidification and other stressors in estuarine environ-
ments; Pages H4329–31
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To pro-
vide for a study by the National Academies of
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine examining the
impact of ocean acidification and other stressors in
estuarine environments.’’. Page H4331
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 11 a.m. tomorrow, June 6th, and further when
the House adjourns on that day, it adjourn to meet
at 2 p.m. on Monday, June 10th, and that the order
of the House of January 3, 2019, regarding morn-
ing-hour debate not apply on that day. Page H4337
Senate Referral: S. 1235 was held at the desk.
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
today appears on page H4329.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D05JN9.REC D05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D633
June 5, 2019
Quorum Calls Votes: One yea-and-nay vote devel-
oped during the proceedings of today and appears on
pages H4331–32. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 11:45 a.m.
Committee Meetings
EXAMINING THE IMPACTS OF
RELOCATING USDA RESEARCH AGENCIES
ON AGRICULTURE RESEARCH
Committee on Agriculture: Subcommittee on Bio-
technology, Horticulture, and Research held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Examining the Impacts of Relocating
USDA Research Agencies on Agriculture Research’’.
Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on the De-
partment of Homeland Security held a markup on
the Department of Homeland Security Appropria-
tions Bill, FY 2020. The Department of Homeland
Security Appropriations Bill, FY 2020 was for-
warded to the full Committee, without amendment.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Readi-
ness held a markup on H.R. 2500, the ‘‘National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020’’.
H.R. 2500 was forwarded to the full Committee,
without amendment.
THIS IS NOT A DRILL: EDUCATION-
RELATED RESPONSE AND RECOVERY IN
THE WAKE OF NATURAL DISASTERS
Committee on Education and Labor: Subcommittee on
Early Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Edu-
cation held a hearing entitled ‘‘This is Not a Drill:
Education-Related Response and Recovery in the
Wake of Natural Disasters’’. Testimony was heard
from Frank T. Brogan, Assistant Secretary for Ele-
mentary and Secondary Education, Department of
Education; Glenn Muna, Commissioner, Common-
wealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Public
School System, Northern Mariana Islands; Steve
Herrington, Superintendent of Schools, Sonoma
County Schools, California; and public witnesses.
LEGISLATIVE MEASURES
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on Na-
tional Parks, Forests, and Public Lands held a hear-
ing on H.R. 1373, the ‘‘Grand Canyon Centennial
Protection Act’’; and H.R. 2181, the ‘‘Chaco Cul-
tural Heritage Area Protection Act of 2019’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Michael Nedd, Deputy Direc-
tor, Operations, Bureau of Land Management, De-
partment of the Interior; Coral Evans, Mayor, Flag-
staff, Arizona; and public witnesses.
LEGISLATIVE MEASURES
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee for In-
digenous Peoples of the United States held a hearing
on H.R. 733, the ‘‘Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe Res-
ervation Restoration Act’’; H.R. 1031, the ‘‘Pala
Band of Mission Indians Land Transfer Act of
2019’’; H.R. 1803, to nullify the Supplemental
Treaty Between the United States of America and
the Confederated Tribes and Bands of Indians of
Middle Oregon; and H.R. 2961, the ‘‘Samish Indian
Land Reaffirmation Act’’. Testimony was heard from
Darryl LaCounte, Director of the Bureau of Indian
Affairs, Department of the Interior; Frank Beum,
Acting Associate Deputy Chief, National Forest Sys-
tem, Department of Agriculture; and public wit-
nesses.
OCEAN EXPLORATION: DIVING TO NEW
DEPTHS AND DISCOVERIES
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Sub-
committee on Environment held a hearing entitled
‘‘Ocean Exploration: Diving to New Depths and
Discoveries’’. Testimony was heard from public wit-
nesses.
NATIONAL SECURITY IMPLICATIONS OF
CLIMATE CHANGE
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Full Com-
mittee held a hearing entitled ‘‘National Security
Implications of Climate Change’’. Testimony was
heard from Peter Kiemel, Counselor, National Secu-
rity Council, Office of the Director of National In-
telligence; Jeff Ringhausen, Senior Naval Intelligence
Manager Russia and Eurasia, Office of Naval Intel-
ligence; and Rod Schoonover, Senior Analyst, Office
of the Geographer and Global Issues, Bureau of In-
telligence and Research, Department of State.
IMPROVING CONSTITUENT ENGAGEMENT
Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress: Full
Committee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Improving Con-
stituent Engagement’’. Testimony was heard from
public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
JUNE 6, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 5627 E:\CR\FM\D05JN9.REC D05JNPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D634 June 5, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10:30 a.m., Thursday, June 6
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will meet in a pro forma
session.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
11 a.m., Thursday, June 6
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: House will meet in Pro Forma
session at 11 a.m.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Barr, Andy, Ky., E716
Barragán, Nanette Diaz, Calif., E715
Bergman, Jack, Mich., E714, E716, E716
Davidson, Warren, Ohio, E714
DeFazio, Peter A., Ore., E714
Gallego, Ruben, Ariz., E716
Garcia, Sylvia R., Tex., E714
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E714
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E713
Joyce, John, Pa., E716
LaHood, Darin, Ill., E713
Luria, Elaine G., Va., E714
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E715
Pocan, Mark, Wisc., E714
Wilson, Frederica S., Fla., E713
Wilson, Joe, S.C., E714
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Jun 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D05JN9.REC D05JNPT1
