Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H7539
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 No. 143
House of Representatives
The House met at 2 p.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. CLAY).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
September 9, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable WM. LACY
CLAY to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Dear Lord, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
As the Members of this people’s
House return from a lengthy time in
their home districts, bless them with
renewed energy to address the issues
remaining in this first session of the
116th Congress.
Give them wisdom in their work,
that our economy might benefit all
Americans, so that our countrymen
and women throughout these United
States might be able to provide for
their families and to build lives we
have all come to expect for our citi-
zens.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms.
SCANLON) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Ms. SCANLON led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
WE DON’T HAVE TIME FOR
EXCUSES
(Ms. SCANLON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, last
week, students across my district, PA–
5, and across the country celebrated
the start of the 2019–2020 school year.
Students returned mostly eager to
learn and teachers ready to teach; but
in my district and others, too many
desks had empty chairs.
As we were high-fiving students at a
Chester elementary school, a school ad-
ministrator turned to me and men-
tioned that one of the second graders
wasn’t there. She was lying in a bed at
Philadelphia’s Children’s Hospital re-
covering from a gunshot wound that
she suffered while sitting in her grand-
father’s car outside a grocery store the
week before.
‘‘I don’t know how much more of this
I can take,’’ he said to me.
Like many of us, this dedicated edu-
cator was visibly worn down by the
daily scourge of gun violence, the fu-
nerals he has attended for children, for
children whose lives have been cut
short before they could even begin or
who have been forever scarred and lim-
ited by the trauma they have experi-
enced or witnessed.
We do not have time for excuses. We
need our colleagues in the Senate to
act.
There is no one solution to ending
gun violence in our country. We need
to implement an array of common-
sense, research-based solutions, but the
first step must be a will to act.
f
CELEBRATING THE SERVICE OF
GEORGE FRAHM
(Mr. AGUILAR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. AGUILAR. Mr. Speaker, today I
rise to recognize the president of
Stater Bros. Markets, Mr. George
Frahm, who will retire at the end of
October, after more than 47 years of
service.
Under George’s leadership, Stater
Bros. has become the largest privately-
owned supermarket chain in my dis-
trict and a staple in our community for
thousands of employees.
George began his career as a clerk’s
helper and janitor before rising to man-
agement and eventually being named
the company’s president.
In addition to his work in the com-
munity, he went on to lead the Cali-
fornia Grocers Educational Founda-
tion, helping to secure college scholar-
ships for students throughout our
State.
George will leave a legacy of hard
work, vision, and service, and he will
be missed by his Stater Bros. family. I
would like to thank him for his tireless
service to the Inland Empire commu-
nity and our families, and I wish him
all the best as he begins his retirement.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 5 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE7.000 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7540 September 9, 2019
b 1630
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 4 o’clock and
30 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
ENERGY EFFICIENT GOVERNMENT
TECHNOLOGY ACT
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1420) to amend the Energy Inde-
pendence and Security Act of 2007 to
promote energy efficiency via informa-
tion and computing technologies, and
for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1420
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Energy Effi-
cient Government Technology Act’’.
SEC. 2. ENERGY-EFFICIENT AND ENERGY-SAVING
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle C of title V of
the Energy Independence and Security Act of
2007 (Public Law 110–140; 121 Stat. 1661) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 530. ENERGY-EFFICIENT AND ENERGY-SAV-
ING INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘Director’ means
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget.
‘‘(2) INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY.—The term
‘information technology’ has the meaning
given that term in section 11101 of title 40,
United States Code.
‘‘(b) DEVELOPMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION
STRATEGY.—Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of this section, each Fed-
eral agency shall coordinate with the Direc-
tor, the Secretary, and the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency to de-
velop an implementation strategy (that in-
cludes best practices and measurement and
verification techniques) for the mainte-
nance, purchase, and use by the Federal
agency of energy-efficient and energy-saving
information technologies at or for federally
owned and operated facilities, taking into
consideration the performance goals estab-
lished under subsection (d).
‘‘(c) ADMINISTRATION.—In developing an
implementation strategy under subsection
(b), each Federal agency shall consider—
‘‘(1) advanced metering infrastructure;
‘‘(2) energy-efficient data center strategies
and methods of increasing asset and infra-
structure utilization;
‘‘(3) advanced power management tools;
‘‘(4) building information modeling, includ-
ing building energy management;
‘‘(5) secure telework and travel substi-
tution tools; and
‘‘(6) mechanisms to ensure that the agency
realizes the energy cost savings brought
about through increased efficiency and utili-
zation.
‘‘(d) PERFORMANCE GOALS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this section,
the Director, in consultation with the Sec-
retary, shall establish performance goals for
evaluating the efforts of Federal agencies in
improving the maintenance, purchase, and
use of energy-efficient and energy-saving in-
formation technology at or for federally
owned and operated facilities.
‘‘(2) BEST PRACTICES.—The Chief Informa-
tion Officers Council established under sec-
tion 3603 of title 44, United States Code, shall
recommend best practices for the attain-
ment of the performance goals, which shall
include Federal agency consideration of, to
the extent applicable by law, the use of—
‘‘(A) energy savings performance con-
tracting; and
‘‘(B) utility energy services contracting.
‘‘(e) REPORTS.—
‘‘(1) AGENCY REPORTS.—Each Federal agen-
cy shall include in the report of the agency
under section 527 a description of the efforts
and results of the agency under this section.
‘‘(2) OMB GOVERNMENT EFFICIENCY REPORTS
AND SCORECARDS.—Effective beginning not
later than October 1, 2019, the Director shall
include in the annual report and scorecard of
the Director required under section 528 a de-
scription of the efforts and results of Federal
agencies under this section.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents for the Energy Independence and
Security Act of 2007 is amended by adding
after the item relating to section 529 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘Sec. 530. Energy-efficient and energy-sav-
ing information technologies.’’.
SEC. 3. ENERGY EFFICIENT DATA CENTERS.
Section 453 of the Energy Independence
and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17112) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (2)(D)(iv), by striking ‘‘de-
termined by the organization’’ and inserting
‘‘proposed by the stakeholders’’; and
(B) by striking paragraph (3); and
(2) by striking subsections (c) through (g)
and inserting the following:
‘‘(c) STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT.—The Sec-
retary and the Administrator shall carry out
subsection (b) in collaboration with informa-
tion technology industry and other key
stakeholders, with the goal of producing re-
sults that accurately reflect the most rel-
evant and useful information. In such col-
laboration, the Secretary and the Adminis-
trator shall pay particular attention to orga-
nizations that—
‘‘(1) have members with expertise in energy
efficiency and in the development, operation,
and functionality of data centers, informa-
tion technology equipment, and software,
such as representatives of hardware manu-
facturers, data center operators, and facility
managers;
‘‘(2) obtain and address input from Depart-
ment of Energy National Laboratories or
any college, university, research institution,
industry association, company, or public in-
terest group with applicable expertise;
‘‘(3) follow—
‘‘(A) commonly accepted procedures for
the development of specifications; and
‘‘(B) accredited standards development
processes; and
‘‘(4) have a mission to promote energy effi-
ciency for data centers and information
technology.
‘‘(d) MEASUREMENTS AND SPECIFICATIONS.—
The Secretary and the Administrator shall
consider and assess the adequacy of the spec-
ifications, measurements, best practices, and
benchmarks described in subsection (b) for
use by the Federal Energy Management Pro-
gram, the Energy Star Program, and other
efficiency programs of the Department of
Energy or the Environmental Protection
Agency.
‘‘(e) STUDY.—The Secretary, in collabora-
tion with the Administrator, shall, not later
than 4 years after the date of enactment of
the Energy Efficient Government Tech-
nology Act, make available to the public an
update to the report of the Lawrence Berke-
ley National Laboratory entitled ‘United
States Data Center Energy Usage Report’
and dated June, 2016 (prepared as an update
to the Report to Congress on Server and
Data Center Energy Efficiency, published on
August 2, 2007, under section 1 of Public Law
109–431 (120 Stat. 2920)), that includes—
‘‘(1) a comparison and gap analysis of the
estimates and projections contained in the
report with new data regarding the period
from 2015 through 2019;
‘‘(2) an analysis considering the impact of
information technologies, including
virtualization and cloud computing, in the
public and private sectors;
‘‘(3) an evaluation of the impact of the
combination of cloud platforms, mobile de-
vices, social media, and big data on data cen-
ter energy usage;
‘‘(4) an evaluation of water usage in data
centers and recommendations for reductions
in such water usage; and
‘‘(5) updated projections and recommenda-
tions for best practices through fiscal year
2025.
‘‘(f) DATA CENTER ENERGY PRACTITIONER
PROGRAM.—The Secretary, in collaboration
with key stakeholders and the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget, shall
maintain a data center energy practitioner
program that leads to the certification of en-
ergy practitioners qualified to evaluate the
energy usage and efficiency opportunities in
federally owned and operated data centers.
Each Federal agency shall consider having
the data centers of the agency evaluated
every 4 years, in accordance with section
543(f) of the National Energy Conservation
Policy Act, by energy practitioners certified
pursuant to such program.
‘‘(g) OPEN DATA INITIATIVE.—The Sec-
retary, in collaboration with key stake-
holders and the Office of Management and
Budget, shall establish an open data initia-
tive relating to energy usage at federally
owned and operated data centers, with the
purpose of making such data available and
accessible in a manner that encourages fur-
ther data center innovation, optimization,
and consolidation. In establishing the initia-
tive, the Secretary shall consider the use of
the online Data Center Maturity Model.
‘‘(h) INTERNATIONAL SPECIFICATIONS AND
METRICS.—The Secretary, in collaboration
with key stakeholders, shall actively partici-
pate in efforts to harmonize global specifica-
tions and metrics for data center energy and
water efficiency.
‘‘(i) DATA CENTER UTILIZATION METRIC.—
The Secretary, in collaboration with key
stakeholders, shall facilitate in the develop-
ment of an efficiency metric that measures
the energy efficiency of a data center (in-
cluding equipment and facilities).
‘‘(j) PROTECTION OF PROPRIETARY INFORMA-
TION.—The Secretary and the Administrator
shall not disclose any proprietary informa-
tion or trade secrets provided by any indi-
vidual or company for the purposes of car-
rying out this section or the programs and
initiatives established under this section.’’.
SEC. 4. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09SE7.004 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7541
September 9, 2019
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Il-
linois (Mr. RUSH) and the gentleman
from Michigan (Mr. UPTON) each will
control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Illinois.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 1420.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self as much time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my friends and
colleagues on the Energy and Com-
merce Committee, Ms. ESHOO from the
great State of California and Mr.
KINZINGER from my home State of Illi-
nois, for working in a bipartisan man-
ner to bring H.R. 1420, the Energy Effi-
cient Government Technology Act, to
the floor today.
Mr. Speaker, the Federal Govern-
ment is the largest single consumer of
energy in our Nation. As we continue
to combat the climate crisis, Mr.
Speaker, we must use every tool at our
disposal.
This bill will help modernize the Fed-
eral Government’s IT and data centers
by requiring Federal agencies to em-
ploy the latest technologies and energy
management strategies. In doing so,
Mr. Speaker, the bill will reduce the
government’s energy use, thus saving
taxpayers millions of dollars.
Mr. Speaker, technological advances
have allowed us to generate more data
today than many thought possible just
several years ago. This data, which
often includes highly sensitive infor-
mation, is stored in Federal data cen-
ters that consume a significant amount
of our Nation’s energy. The bipartisan
legislation offered by my colleagues
will reduce the energy consumed by
Federal data centers by requiring the
Department of Energy and the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency to col-
laborate with stakeholders on effi-
ciency programs at data centers all
across our Nation.
Mr. Speaker, I commend my col-
leagues, Ms. ESHOO and Mr. KINZINGER,
for their work on this bill, and I en-
courage all my colleagues to support
it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self as much time as I might consume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman
RUSH, the distinguished chairman of
the Energy Subcommittee, as well as
Mr. PALLONE and Mr. WALDEN, for
bringing this bill to the floor.
As the use of digital technology ex-
pands across the Federal Government
and the private economy, there is a
growing demand for energy to power
our data centers, which are at the very
center of this digital economy. With
this growing energy demand comes, in
fact, the growing need to identify areas
to use energy more efficiently.
Introduced by Ms. ESHOO and cospon-
sored by a number of Energy and Com-
merce Committee members on both
sides of the aisle, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr.
WELCH, and Mr. TONKO, H.R. 1420 up-
dates an important provision of the En-
ergy Independence and Security Act of
2007 to increase stakeholder involve-
ment in the work to identify metrics
and the best practices to improve the
energy efficiency of data centers.
It also updates provisions to better
track Federal programs to increase en-
ergy efficiency across the Federal Gov-
ernment’s information technology.
This is a practical update to an impor-
tant program that no one should op-
pose.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 1420, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I yield back
the balance of my time.
Ms. ESHOO. Madam Speaker, I’m pleased
to rise today in support of my legislation, the
Energy Efficient Government Technology Act,
and I thank Chairman PALLONE and my legis-
lative partner Congressman ADAM KINZINGER
for their strong support of this bill.
Today, the world generates more data in
twelve hours than was generated in all of
human history prior to 2003. This data must
be stored and processed at data centers
which are the backbone of the 21th century
economy, but they can be highly energy ineffi-
cient.
I first wrote legislation in 2005 requiring a
report to Congress on the federal govern-
ment’s energy use and costs of data centers.
At that time, I had to explain to colleagues
what a data center was. Today, we routinely
hear about them and most people understand
that data centers are a critical part of our na-
tional infrastructure and are found in nearly
every sector of our economy.
The rising importance of data centers in our
everyday lives often goes unnoticed, but data
centers now consume an estimated 2 percent
of all electricity in the United States each year.
Over the last decade, data center energy use
has quadrupled and will continue to grow as
our lives become increasingly tied to the dig-
ital world.
The federal government alone has more
than 2,000 data centers which store every-
thing from Social Security and tax records, to
e-books at the Library of Congress. As the na-
tion’s largest landowner, employer, and energy
user, the federal government should lead by
example in this field.
The Energy Efficient Government Tech-
nology Act requires government agencies to
develop plans to implement best practices,
purchase more energy efficient information
and communications technologies, and submit
to periodic evaluation of their data centers for
energy efficiency.
Importantly, the bill also requires govern-
ment agencies to formulate specific perform-
ance goals and a means to calculate overall
cost savings from improvements to energy ef-
ficiency.
Data centers are critical to our economy and
our lives, but they can be extremely inefficient
when it comes to energy use. Experts esti-
mate that most data centers could slash their
energy use by up to 80 or 90 percent by sim-
ply implementing existing technologies and
best practices. Several Silicon Valley compa-
nies have taken the lead in developing effi-
cient, sustainable data centers, but we can do
much more across the private sector and gov-
ernment.
The Department of Energy estimates that
implementation of best practices alone could
reduce the government’s data center energy
bill by 20 to 40 percent. And the Center for
Climate and Energy Solutions found that wide-
spread adoption of energy efficient information
technologies could save the federal govern-
ment over $5 billion in energy costs over 10
years.
This legislation will not increase government
spending. Instead, it has the potential to save
taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars in re-
duced energy costs in the future, while setting
an example for the private sector to reduce
energy usage at data centers.
The Energy Efficient Government Tech-
nology Act passed the House by voice vote in
the previous Congress and has strong support
from both energy efficiency advocates and in-
dustry groups, including the American Council
for an Energy-Efficient Economy, the Alliance
to Save Energy, the Information Technology
Industry Council, and the U.S. Green Building
Council, among others.
I urge my colleagues to support this bipar-
tisan legislation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. RUSH)
that the House suspend the rules and
pass the bill, H.R. 1420, as amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, on that I de-
mand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
DIESEL EMISSIONS REDUCTION
ACT OF 2019
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1768) to reauthorize subtitle G of
title VII of the Energy Policy Act of
2005, relating to diesel emissions reduc-
tion, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1768
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Diesel Emis-
sions Reduction Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION.
Section 797(a) of the Energy Policy Act of
2005 (42 U.S.C. 16137(a)) is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘2016’’ and inserting ‘‘2024’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE7.002 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7542 September 9, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Il-
linois (Mr. RUSH) and the gentleman
from Michigan (Mr. UPTON) each will
control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Illinois.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on this bill,
H.R. 1768.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I yield 21⁄2
minutes to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. MATSUI).
Ms. MATSUI. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of my bill, the Diesel
Emissions Reduction Act, otherwise
known as DERA, and I urge my col-
leagues to support this critically im-
portant and bipartisan legislation.
The mission of the EPA DERA pro-
gram is simple: reduce air pollution,
improve public health, and make our
communities better places to live and
raise a family. That is why this com-
monsense program has continually gar-
nered broad bipartisan support since it
was first proposed.
The reason for that is equally simple:
DERA gets results and saves taxpayer
dollars in the long run. By replacing or
retrofitting older and dirtier diesel en-
gines, the program has made meaning-
ful strides in boosting public health,
reducing air pollution, and improving
the quality of life in communities
across the country.
Over the last 10 years, the EPA has
awarded over $600 million in funds, and
those dollars are making the dif-
ference. Over 67,000 engines have been
retrofitted or replaced. We have saved
nearly $20 billion in realized health
costs. We have prevented millions of
tons of carbon monoxide and particu-
late matter from entering our air, and
we have saved over 450 million gallons
of fuel at the pump.
Mr. Speaker, that is why we need to
continue authorizing the DERA pro-
gram, so that it can continue to do its
great work for years to come.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my friends and
colleagues, Congressman LOWENTHAL
from California, Congressman LONG
from Missouri, and Congressman WITT-
MAN from Virginia, for coleading this
bill with me and for helping usher it to
the floor.
My duty to my constituents is to
fight for cleaner air and cleaner com-
munities. In fact, we all owe that to
those we serve.
Mr. Speaker, as we prepare to vote on
the Diesel Emissions Reduction Act, I
ask my colleagues to support my bill
and this critically important EPA pro-
gram.
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self as much time as I might consume.
Mr. Speaker, this bill, H.R. 1768, the
Diesel Emissions Reduction Act of 2019,
is a bipartisan bill. It was introduced
by my Energy and Commerce col-
leagues, Ms. MATSUI, who just spoke,
and Mr. LONG, along with Mr.
LOWENTHAL and Mr. WITTMAN.
The bill simply, but importantly, re-
authorizes the DERA program through
2024.
This program was established by the
Energy Policy Act of 2005. It is a vol-
untary program, administered by the
EPA, that helps fund the retrofit or re-
placement of existing heavy-duty die-
sel vehicles, engines, and equipment
with cleaner diesel or new technology.
According to EPA’s data, nearly 10
million older diesel vehicles are oper-
ating throughout our transportation
infrastructure with no modern emis-
sion controls. The DERA funding and
rebates help replace these vehicles
with equipment that meets or sur-
passes current emissions standards.
The majority of program spending
targets areas that are not meeting air
quality standards for particulate mat-
ter and other pollutants, including at
ports and freight-distribution centers
and in numerous communities reliant
on legacy diesel engines, such as school
buses and other vehicles.
The Federal and State grants and
other assistance under this program re-
sulted in cleaner, more efficient vehi-
cles, and the net effect is cleaner air in
cities and communities that, in fact,
need it the most.
As EPA Administrator Andrew
Wheeler notes, this is an effective and
innovative program to improve air
quality across the country. In fact,
DERA funding has proven a cost-effec-
tive tool to help communities meet
their air quality implementation plans.
Congress has long supported this pro-
gram, which it first reauthorized in
2010 with strong bipartisan support and
even after that authorization expired
in 2016. This bill will ensure the good
work to advance cleaner technology
will, in fact, continue.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of the Diesel Emissions Reduction Act
of 2019.
This legislation, introduced by my
colleague on the Energy and Commerce
Committee, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. MATSUI), will reduce
harmful emissions and improve air
quality in our Nation’s communities by
incentivizing upgrades or replacements
of millions of diesel engines currently
in use across our Nation.
Mr. Speaker, diesel engines play an
important role in the American econ-
omy, helping bring children to school
and transport goods all across our
country, while supporting jobs across
the Nation.
Retrofitting older diesel engines that
emit significant amounts of exhaust
with cleaner, American-made tech-
nology is an easy initiative to support.
The Diesel Emissions Reduction Act,
also known as DERA, has enjoyed over-
whelming bipartisan support, and
every State has received funding
through the program since it was cre-
ated by Congress nearly 15 years ago.
b 1645
Since its inception, Mr. Speaker,
DERA has been one of the most cost-ef-
fective Federal environmental pro-
grams, with up to $30 in return in
health and economic benefits for every
$1 put into the program.
The program has also been respon-
sible for the creation and retention of
local U.S. jobs that involve manufac-
turing, installation, and servicing of
emissions-related technologies.
At a time, Mr. Speaker, when our Na-
tion is looking for ways to create jobs,
protect the health of our commu-
nities—especially those who are most
vulnerable—address climate change
and protect the environment, sup-
porting this bill, DERA, stands out as a
prime example of what really works.
I thank the gentlewoman for her tire-
less work and for being such a tireless
advocate for the DERA program, and I
strongly urge my colleagues to support
this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Ala-
bama (Mr. PALMER).
Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding, particu-
larly in regard to the fact that I am
speaking in opposition.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition.
This bill would authorize the appro-
priation of $100 million, annually, for
the Diesel Emissions Reduction Act.
While this may sound like a worthy
goal, the devil is always in the details.
Although the EPA touts the program
as a way to achieve cost-effective emis-
sions, the reality is much different.
Funds from this program have gone to
a number of questionable items, in-
cluding $750,000 for cherry pickers in
Utah, $1 million for electrified parking
spaces at a truck stop in Delaware, and
$1.2 million for a new engine and gen-
erators for a 1950s locomotive in Penn-
sylvania.
The President’s budget only requests
$10 million for this program, yet this
bill would authorize 10 times that
amount. We simply cannot continue
asking taxpayers to fund a program
that wastes their money on frivolous
projects.
This program was intended to be a
short-term effort to assist States and
local government in meeting diesel
emissions standards but has joined a
long list of temporary government pro-
grams for which there is no end in
sight.
The GAO has noted that funding to
reduce diesel emissions is fragmented
across 14 programs at the Department
of Energy, the Department of Trans-
portation, and the EPA. Surely, we can
make due with one less.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:31 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09SE7.007 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7543
September 9, 2019
With a national debt exceeding $22
trillion and growing every day, we can-
not afford to give additional resources
to a program that clearly duplicates,
at least in part, 13 other programs and
has a marginal impact, at best.
The authorization for this program
expired in 2016, and it should not be
resurrected.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
oppose this bill.
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I just want to make the
point that this is an authorization that
the level of spending will actually be
determined by the Appropriations
Committee, not ours.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a news release from the EPA making
the point from Administrator Wheeler:
‘‘As this report details, the DERA program
is an effective and innovative way to im-
prove air quality across the country while
providing children with safer, more reliable
transportation to and from school,’’ said
EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler.
Nearly 10 million older diesel engines are
operating throughout our transportation
system.
DERA has led to cleaner air across the U.S.
by reducing emissions:
472,700 tons of smog-forming nitrogen ox-
ides.
15,490 tons of particulate matter.
17,700 tons of hydrocarbon.
5,089,170 tons of carbon dioxide.
[From EPA, 7/25/2019]
NEWS RELEASES FROM HEADQUARTERS, AIR
AND RADIATION (OAR) EPA REPORT: CLEAN
DIESEL GRANTS RACK UP MAJOR AIR,
HEALTH BENEFITS
(By EPA Press Office)
WASHINGTON (July 25, 2019)—Grants to
clean up or replace older diesel engines
under the Diesel Emissions Reduction Act
(DERA) have delivered significant health
and environmental benefits to communities
across America, according to a U.S. Environ-
mental Protection Agency (EPA) report re-
leased today. DERA, a bipartisan effort au-
thorized by Congress, provides cost-effective
reductions of harmful diesel pollution across
the U.S. and particularly in areas where air
quality is a concern.
‘‘As this report details, the DERA program
is an effective and innovative way to im-
prove air quality across the country while
providing children with safer, more reliable
transportation to and from school,’’ said
EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler. ‘‘Chil-
dren’s health is a top priority for EPA, and
DERA helps fulfill our children’s health
agenda and commitment to ensure all chil-
dren can live, learn, and play in healthy and
clean environments.’’
Nearly 10 million older diesel engines are
operating throughout our transportation in-
frastructure with no modern emissions con-
trols. While some of these will be retired
over time, many will remain in use, pol-
luting America’s air for the next 20 years.
The DERA program provides rebates and
grant funding to replace these vehicles and
engines with equipment that meets or ex-
ceeds current emissions standards.
DERA has led to cleaner air across the U.S.
by reducing emissions:
472,700 tons of smog-forming nitrogen ox-
ides.
15,490 tons of particulate matter (PM).
17,700 tons of hydrocarbon.
5,089,170 tons of carbon dioxide.
Since 2008, DERA has awarded $629 million
in funding to replace or retrofit 67,300 legacy
diesel engines. EPA estimates that reducing
these harmful pollutants will lead to $19 bil-
lion in health benefits and 2,300 fewer pre-
mature deaths. EPA estimates that for every
federal dollar spent, DERA projects generate
between $11 and $30 in public health benefits
and over $2 in fuel savings.
The DERA program works to reduce expo-
sure and provide improved air quality in
communities where air pollution is of con-
cern, including those near ports, rail yards,
and PM and ozone non-attainment areas.
Sixty-four percent of projects awarded in fis-
cal year 2008–2016 were in areas with these
air quality concerns.
The Fourth Report to Congress summa-
rizes the program’s accomplishments from
fiscal year 2008–2013 and discusses final and
estimated results from funding in fiscal year
2014–2016.
For more information on DERA, visit:
http://www.epa.gov/cleandiesel.
To access the report, visit https://
www.epa.gov/cleandiesel/clean-diesel-re-
ports-congress.
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, this is a
program that works. It takes those
older vehicles off the road. As far as I
know, industry supports this. It is bet-
ter for our communities, which is why
our committee, under both Republican
and Democratic chairmen and adminis-
trations, has supported this, letting
the appropriators decide the level of
funding that it actually prescribes.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues,
again on a bipartisan basis, to support
this, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I want to as-
sociate myself with the remarks of the
gentleman from Michigan, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I rise in
strong support of the Diesel Emissions Reduc-
tion Act, a bill that will reduce diesel emissions
and protect public health by reauthorizing the
EPA’s DERA program.
Emissions from diesel engines are a signifi-
cant source of our nation’s greenhouse gas
emissions. The EPA has long linked direct
emissions from these engines to premature
deaths, lung cancer, and increased risk of
asthma.
Since 2008, DERA has awarded over $600
million in funding to replace or retrofit over
65,000 older diesel engines with American-
made clean diesel technology. The EPA esti-
mates that the cleaner-burning engines will re-
duce 5 million tons of carbon dioxide emis-
sions and lead to $19 billion in health benefits
over the lifetime of the affected engines. Addi-
tionally, the EPA estimates that for every fed-
eral dollar spent, DERA projects generate up
to $30 in public health benefits and over $2 in
fuel savings.
It is no wonder that DERA has enjoyed
overwhelming bipartisan support. The most re-
cent DERA reauthorization passed unani-
mously in the Senate and by voice vote in the
House in 2010. While DERA’s authorization
expired in FY 2016, I have been proud to work
with Representative’s MATSUI and BARRAGÁN
to secure robust funding for the program.
With an estimated 40 percent of our nation’s
heavy-duty diesel vehicles operating without
clean technology, the DERA program is still
desperately needed.
I urge my colleagues to vote yes to reau-
thorize this popular and cost-effective pro-
gram.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. RUSH)
that the House suspend the rules and
pass the bill, H.R. 1768.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. PALMER. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
ENHANCING STATE ENERGY SECU-
RITY PLANNING AND EMER-
GENCY PREPAREDNESS ACT OF
2019
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2114) to amend the Energy Policy
and Conservation Act to provide Fed-
eral financial assistance to States to
implement, review, and revise State
energy security plans, and for other
purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2114
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Enhancing
State Energy Security Planning and Emer-
gency Preparedness Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. STATE ENERGY SECURITY PLANS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Part D of title III of the
Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42
U.S.C. 6321 et seq.) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 367. STATE ENERGY SECURITY PLANS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Federal financial assist-
ance made available to a State under this
part may be used for the implementation, re-
view, and revision of a State energy security
plan that assesses the State’s existing cir-
cumstances and proposes methods to
strengthen the ability of the State, in con-
sultation with owners and operators of en-
ergy infrastructure in such State, to—
‘‘(1) secure the energy infrastructure of the
State against all physical and cybersecurity
threats;
‘‘(2) mitigate the risk of energy supply dis-
ruptions to the State and enhance the re-
sponse to, and recovery from, energy disrup-
tions; and
‘‘(3) ensure the State has a reliable, secure,
and resilient energy infrastructure.
‘‘(b) CONTENTS OF PLAN.—A State energy
security plan described in subsection (a)
shall—
‘‘(1) address all fuels, including petroleum
products, other liquid fuels, coal, electricity,
and natural gas, as well as regulated and un-
regulated energy providers;
‘‘(2) provide a State energy profile, includ-
ing an assessment of energy production, dis-
tribution, and end-use;
‘‘(3) address potential hazards to each en-
ergy sector or system, including physical
threats and cybersecurity threats and
vulnerabilities;
‘‘(4) provide a risk assessment of energy in-
frastructure and cross-sector interdepend-
encies;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09SE7.008 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7544 September 9, 2019
‘‘(5) provide a risk mitigation approach to
enhance reliability and end-use resilience;
and
‘‘(6) address multi-State, Indian Tribe, and
regional coordination planning and response,
and to the extent practicable, encourage mu-
tual assistance in cyber and physical re-
sponse plans.
‘‘(c) COORDINATION.—In developing a State
energy security plan under this section, the
energy office of the State shall, to the extent
practicable, coordinate with—
‘‘(1) the public utility or service commis-
sion of the State;
‘‘(2) energy providers from the private sec-
tor; and
‘‘(3) other entities responsible for main-
taining fuel or electric reliability.
‘‘(d) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.—A State is not
eligible to receive Federal financial assist-
ance under this part, for any purpose, for a
fiscal year unless the Governor of such State
submits to the Secretary, with respect to
such fiscal year—
‘‘(1) a State energy security plan described
in subsection (a) that meets the require-
ments of subsection (b); or
‘‘(2) after an annual review of the State en-
ergy security plan by the Governor—
‘‘(A) any necessary revisions to such plan;
or
‘‘(B) a certification that no revisions to
such plan are necessary.
‘‘(e) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—Upon request
of the Governor of a State, the Secretary
may provide information and technical as-
sistance, and other assistance, in the devel-
opment, implementation, or revision of a
State energy security plan.
‘‘(f) SUNSET.—This section shall expire on
October 31, 2024.’’.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Section 365(f) of the Energy Policy and Con-
servation Act (42 U.S.C. 6325(f)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘$125,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$90,000,000’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘2007 through 2012’’ and in-
serting ‘‘2021 through 2025’’.
(c) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS.—
(1) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 363
of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act
(42 U.S.C. 6323) is amended—
(A) by redesignating subsection (f) as sub-
section (e); and
(B) by striking subsection (e).
(2) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.—Section
366(3)(B)(i) of the Energy Policy and Con-
servation Act (42 U.S.C. 6326(3)(B)(i)) is
amended by striking ‘‘approved under sec-
tion 367’’.
(3) REFERENCE.—The item relating to ‘‘De-
partment of Energy—Energy Conservation’’
in title II of the Department of the Interior
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
1985 (42 U.S.C. 6323a) is amended by striking
‘‘sections 361 through 366’’ and inserting
‘‘sections 361 through 367’’.
(4) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions for part D of title III of the Energy Pol-
icy and Conservation Act is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘Sec. 367. State energy security plans.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Il-
linois (Mr. RUSH) and the gentleman
from Michigan (Mr. UPTON) each will
control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Illinois.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 2114.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 2114, the Enhancing State En-
ergy Security Planning and Emergency
Preparedness Act of 2019, and I urge all
of my colleagues to support this bill.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2114 was intro-
duced by myself and my good friend
and colleague from Michigan, the rank-
ing member of the Energy Sub-
committee, Mr. UPTON, and I want to
thank my colleague for working with
me to bring this bill to the floor today.
Mr. Speaker, this legislation would
simply amend the Energy Policy and
Conservation Act by adding a new sec-
tion authorizing States to utilize Fed-
eral funding received through the State
Energy Program to implement, revise,
and review a State energy security
plan.
H.R. 2114 lays out eligibility require-
ments for the contents of a State en-
ergy security plan to receive assistance
and requires the Governor of a State to
submit a new plan, revisions to a plan,
or to certify that no revisions to the
plan are necessary to the Secretary of
Energy every year.
These emergency plans have been
vital to the States as they continue to
improve their ability to identify poten-
tial energy disruptions, quantify the
effects of disruptions, establish re-
sponse plans, and limit the risk of fur-
ther disturbances, whether they be nat-
ural or man-made.
Mr. Speaker, now more than ever, it
is critical that we provide the re-
sources for States to take even more of
a prominent role in advancing smart
and sustainable energy policy.
Since their inception in the 1970s,
State energy programs, bolstered by
Federal aid, have assisted States in de-
veloping much-needed energy effi-
ciency and energy conservation meas-
ures. Some of these federally assisted
initiatives that have been implemented
by the States include, but are not lim-
ited to, establishing new partnerships
to finance retrofit programs, managing
loan programs, offering energy savings
performance contracts, expanding the
use of alternative fuels, and promoting
distributed renewable energy.
Mr. Speaker, Federal funding and
leadership have always been critical in
helping States and local stakeholders
identify the roles and responsibilities
of the various agencies in times of
emergencies, while also supporting
training and response exercises.
Mr. Speaker, this bill is a product of
a thoughtful and bipartisan negotia-
tion process between Ranking Member
UPTON and myself to provide Federal
guidance and resources to the States
that are most vulnerable to critical en-
ergy infrastructure threats. Members
on both sides of the aisle support the
State Energy Program, and this legis-
lation will help allocate additional re-
sources to further develop and enhance
State energy security plans.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this bill, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to confirm what
the chairman said about this bill. It is
bipartisan. We worked on this to-
gether. It is a good bill and it is an im-
portant one, which we passed on a
voice vote on suspension in the last
Congress. It reauthorizes the State En-
ergy Program, and it strengthens our
energy emergency planning and pre-
paredness efforts.
As States and communities respond
to the damage throughout the South-
east and the Mid-Atlantic from Hurri-
cane Dorian, we are reminded how
States have to respond to so many dif-
ferent hazards, including hurricanes,
earthquakes, floods, fuel supply disrup-
tions, and physical and cyber threats.
This legislation, in fact, provides
States with the flexibility that they
need to address local energy chal-
lenges. It ensures that State energy se-
curity planning efforts address fuel
supply issues, assess State energy pro-
files, address potential hazards to each
energy sector, mitigate risk to enhance
reliability, and incorporate regional
planning efforts.
b 1700
This legislation, H.R. 2114, helps
States protect fuel and electric infra-
structure from both physical and cyber
threats and other vulnerabilities. It
makes sure that we are thinking
ahead, not just about an actual threat,
but how our energy and electric sys-
tems might be vulnerable in a broader
sense.
The bill also encourages mutual as-
sistance, an essential part of respond-
ing and restoring, in the event of an
energy emergency. So prioritizing and
elevating security planning and emer-
gency preparedness is, in fact, an im-
portant step in the face of increased
threats, vulnerabilities, and inter-
dependencies of energy infrastructure
and end-use systems.
It is a bipartisan bill. It is a good
bill. I urge all of my colleagues to vote
for it, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. RUSH)
that the House suspend the rules and
pass the bill, H.R. 2114.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ADVANCED NUCLEAR FUEL
AVAILABILITY ACT
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE7.008 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7545
September 9, 2019
(H.R. 1760) to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish and carry out a
program to support the availability of
HA-LEU for domestic commercial use,
and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1760
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Advanced
Nuclear Fuel Availability Act’’.
SEC. 2. PROGRAM.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall
establish and carry out, through the Office of
Nuclear Energy, a program to support the
availability of HA–LEU for domestic com-
mercial use.
(b) PROGRAM ELEMENTS.—In carrying out
the program under subsection (a), the Sec-
retary—
(1) may provide financial assistance to as-
sist commercial entities to design and li-
cense transportation packages for HA–LEU,
including canisters for metal, gas, and other
HA–LEU compositions;
(2) shall, to the extent practicable—
(A) by January 1, 2022, have commercial
entities submit such transportation package
designs to the Commission for certification
by the Commission under part 71 of title 10,
Code of Federal Regulations; and
(B) encourage the Commission to have
such transportation package designs so cer-
tified by the Commission by January 1, 2024;
(3) not later than January 1, 2021, shall
submit to Congress a report on the Depart-
ment’s uranium inventory that may be
available to be processed to HA–LEU for pur-
poses of such program, which may not in-
clude any uranium allocated by the Sec-
retary for use in support of the atomic en-
ergy defense activities of the National Nu-
clear Security Administration;
(4) not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this Act, and biennially there-
after through September 30, 2026, shall con-
duct a survey of stakeholders to estimate
the quantity of HA–LEU necessary for do-
mestic commercial use for each of the 5 sub-
sequent years;
(5) shall assess options available for the
Secretary to acquire HA–LEU for such pro-
gram, including an assessment, for each such
option, of the cost and amount of time re-
quired;
(6) shall establish a consortium, which may
include entities involved in any stage of the
nuclear fuel cycle, to partner with the De-
partment to support the availability of HA–
LEU for domestic commercial use, including
by—
(A) providing information to the Secretary
for purposes of surveys conducted under
paragraph (4); and
(B) purchasing HA–LEU made available to
members of the consortium by the Secretary
under the program;
(7) shall, prior to acquiring HA–LEU under
paragraph (8), in coordination with the con-
sortium established pursuant to paragraph
(6), develop a schedule for cost recovery of
HA–LEU made available to members of the
consortium pursuant to paragraph (8);
(8) may, beginning not later than 3 years
after the establishment of a consortium
under paragraph (6), acquire HA–LEU, in
order, to the extent practicable, to make
such HA–LEU available to members of the
consortium beginning not later than Janu-
ary 1, 2026, in amounts that are consistent,
to the extent practicable, with the quan-
tities estimated under the surveys conducted
under paragraph (4); and
(9) shall develop, in consultation with the
Commission, criticality benchmark data to
assist the Commission in—
(A) the licensing and regulation of cat-
egory II spent nuclear material fuel fabrica-
tion and enrichment facilities under part 70
of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations; and
(B) certification of transportation pack-
ages under part 71 of title 10, Code of Federal
Regulations.
(c) APPLICABILITY OF USEC PRIVATIZATION
ACT.—The requirements of subparagraphs
(A) and (C) of section 3112(d)(2) of the USEC
Privatization Act (42 U.S.C. 2297h–10(d)(2))
shall apply to a sale or transfer of HA–LEU
by the Secretary to a member of the consor-
tium under this section.
(d) FUNDING.—
(1) TRANSPORTATION PACKAGE DESIGN.—
(A) COST SHARE.—The Secretary shall en-
sure that not less than 20 percent of the
costs of design and license activities carried
out pursuant to subsection (b)(1) are paid by
a non-Federal entity.
(B) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out subsection (b)(1)—
(i) $1,500,000 for fiscal year 2020;
(ii) $1,500,000 for fiscal year 2021; and
(iii) $1,500,000 for fiscal year 2022.
(2) DOE ACQUISITION OF HA–LEU.—The Sec-
retary may not make commitments under
this section (including cooperative agree-
ments (used in accordance with section 6305
of title 31, United States Code), purchase
agreements, guarantees, leases, service con-
tracts, or any other type of commitment) for
the purchase or other acquisition of HA–LEU
unless funds are specifically provided for
such purposes in advance in subsequent ap-
propriations Acts, and only to the extent
that the full extent of anticipated costs
stemming from such commitments is re-
corded as an obligation up front and in full
at the time it is made.
(3) OTHER COSTS.—Except as otherwise pro-
vided in this subsection, in carrying out this
section, the Secretary shall use amounts
otherwise authorized to be appropriated to
the Secretary.
(e) SUNSET.—The authority of the Sec-
retary to carry out the program under this
section shall expire on September 30, 2034.
SEC. 3. REPORT TO CONGRESS.
Not later than 12 months after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Commission shall
submit to Congress a report that includes—
(1) identification of updates to regulations,
certifications, and other regulatory policies
that the Commission determines are nec-
essary in order for HA–LEU to be commer-
cially available, including—
(A) guidance for material control and ac-
countability of category II special nuclear
material;
(B) certifications relating to transpor-
tation packaging for HA–LEU; and
(C) licensing of enrichment, conversion,
and fuel fabrication facilities for HA–LEU,
and associated physical security plans for
such facilities;
(2) a description of such updates; and
(3) a timeline to complete such updates.
SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’
means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
(2) DEPARTMENT.—The term ‘‘Department’’
means Department of Energy.
(3) HA–LEU.—The term ‘‘HA–LEU’’ means
high-assay low-enriched uranium.
(4) HIGH-ASSAY LOW-ENRICHED URANIUM.—
The term ‘‘high-assay low-enriched ura-
nium’’ means uranium having an assay
greater than 5.0 percent and less than 20.0
percent enrichment of the uranium-235 iso-
tope.
(5) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Energy.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Il-
linois (Mr. RUSH) and the gentleman
from Michigan (Mr. UPTON) each will
control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Illinois.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on the bill, H.R.
1760.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 1760, the Advanced Nuclear
Fuel Availability Act introduced by
my colleagues on the Energy and Com-
merce Committee, Mr. FLORES from
Texas and Mr. MCNERNEY from Cali-
fornia.
This legislation, Mr. Speaker, will
help facilitate the availability of high-
assay low-enriched uranium, the fuel
required for most advanced nuclear re-
actor design. Mr. Speaker, there is no
existing commercial market for this
fuel.
In order to ensure that this fuel is
available for advanced reactors in the
United States when they are fully li-
censed and ready to provide consumers
with electricity, the Federal Govern-
ment will need to coordinate efforts
among agencies and within the com-
mercial nuclear sector to ensure that
high-assay low-enriched uranium can
be licensed and transported safely.
Mr. Speaker, we must develop a do-
mestic market for the fuel needed to
power these advanced nuclear reactor
projects that are coming into the mar-
ket in the near future.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my col-
leagues on the Energy and Commerce
Committee, both Mr. FLORES and Mr.
MCNERNEY, for developing this
thoughtful and much-needed proposal.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support H.R. 1760, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. FLORES), the sponsor of the legis-
lation.
Mr. FLORES. Mr. Speaker, I want to
start by thanking Mr. UPTON for yield-
ing his time to me.
I rise in support of H.R. 1760, the Ad-
vanced Nuclear Fuel Availability Act,
a bill that I introduced with my friend,
Mr. MCNERNEY, from California.
This bipartisan bill passed the House
unanimously in the last Congress. It
would ensure that America remains at
the forefront of the global race to de-
velop the next generation of nuclear re-
actor technologies.
Nuclear energy generates approxi-
mately 20 percent of our country’s al-
ways-on baseload electricity for our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:05 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09SE7.013 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7546 September 9, 2019
homes and businesses. Furthermore,
because nuclear emits zero CO2, it is
also America’s largest source of clean
and efficient energy.
Most current-generation and legacy
nuclear reactors in use today operate
on a fuel that is generally enriched
below 5 percent. The next generation of
advanced nuclear reactors currently
under development vary in size and
technology compared to current reac-
tors, and they would require a new type
of advanced fuel.
This fuel known as high-assay low-
enriched uranium, or HA-LEU for
short, is enriched at higher levels than
what is available in the current com-
mercial market. The bipartisan Ad-
vanced Nuclear Fuel Availability Act
establishes a public-private partner-
ship through the Department of Ener-
gy’s Office of Nuclear Energy to sup-
port the availability of HA-LEU for do-
mestic commercial use.
A March 2017, survey of advanced re-
actor developers based in the U.S.
found that the lack of availability of
advanced fuel is the foremost factor
that would impede the development
and deployment of advanced nuclear
technologies.
Simply put, H.R. 1760 would ensure
that a supply of advanced fuel is avail-
able for our domestic commercial in-
dustry to purchase and to power the
advanced reactors of tomorrow.
Global energy demand will continue
to increase and zero-emissions nuclear
power is the ultimate green source to
meet future generations’ needs. It is
important to pass this bill to give
American innovators a competitive
edge in designing and deploying the re-
actors of tomorrow.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. MCNERNEY
again for coleading H.R. 1760 with me,
as well as our committee leadership
and staff for their assistance in bring-
ing this legislation forward.
I, again, urge my colleagues to sup-
port this bipartisan bill so we can
power the 21st century economy in an
environmentally friendly, zero emis-
sions manner for hardworking Amer-
ican families.
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. UPTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, this legislation, H.R.
1760, the Advanced Nuclear Fuel Avail-
ability Act, is, in fact, another bipar-
tisan bill sponsored by Mr. FLORES,
who just spoke, along with JERRY
MCNERNEY from California.
At the end of the last Congress, the
House passed the identical bill on sus-
pension and also on a voice vote after
the Energy and Commerce Committee
had reported the bill favorably and also
on a voice vote.
Nuclear innovators face a critical
challenge as they work to bring several
promising advanced nuclear tech-
nologies to the market. These new de-
signs require fuels that have different
attributes than what is used in today’s
fleet of nuclear reactors, but the fuels
are not commercially available.
So this bill ensures nuclear
innovators will, in fact, have the ad-
vanced fuels needed to develop and
demonstrate their products commer-
cially. The bill provides a direct path
to align advanced nuclear fuel supply
with initial demand for the deployment
of next generation nuclear tech-
nologies. It provides for the develop-
ment of the technical information nec-
essary to assist the creation of the reg-
ulatory licensing framework for these
fuels.
The bill also directs the Secretary of
Energy to establish a temporary pro-
gram, operating to support a public-
private partnership that is going to
make what is known as high-assay low-
enriched uranium available for use in
the first-of-a-kind advanced nuclear re-
actor designs.
It is going to provide for the informa-
tion necessary to inform the new-mar-
ket developments and cost recovery for
any initial Federal investment.
So, in short, the Advanced Nuclear
Fuel Availability Act takes the nec-
essary steps to ensure that the infra-
structure will be in place in time to en-
able the development and deployment
of a new generation of nuclear tech-
nologies across the U.S.
It is an important bill for ensuring
the Nation’s international leadership
on nuclear technology to ensure that
our energy security and achieving our
clean-energy goals are, in fact, done.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bill and when it passes, I urge our Sen-
ate colleagues to adopt it as well. It is
a bipartisan bill and, again, I congratu-
late the leadership on both sides of the
aisle for bringing this bill to the floor
for debate in a vote this afternoon.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I, again, as-
sociate myself with the remarks of the
gentleman from Michigan, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. RUSH)
that the House suspend the rules and
pass the bill, H.R. 1760.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 5 o’clock and 10 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. TITUS) at 6 o’clock and 30
minutes p.m.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Motions to suspend the rules and
pass:
H.R. 1420; and
H.R. 1768.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
ENERGY EFFICIENT GOVERNMENT
TECHNOLOGY ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1420) to amend the Energy
Independence and Security Act of 2007
to promote energy efficiency via infor-
mation and computing technologies,
and for other purposes, as amended, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. RUSH)
that the House suspend the rules and
pass the bill, as amended.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 384, nays 23,
not voting 25, as follows:
[Roll No. 515]
YEAS—384
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Cohen
Cole
Collins (NY)
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09SE7.014 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7547
September 9, 2019
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—23
Amash
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Burchett
Cline
Comer
Davidson (OH)
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Higgins (LA)
Johnson (LA)
Jordan
Massie
Perry
Roy
Steube
Taylor
Weber (TX)
Wright
Yoho
NOT VOTING—25
Abraham
Blumenauer
Byrne
Clyburn
Collins (GA)
Costa
Cummings
Deutch
Fulcher
Hudson
Kind
Lamborn
Loebsack
McCarthy
McEachin
Meadows
Meng
Pingree
Posey
Rouzer
Ryan
Speier
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wilson (FL)
b 1900
Messrs. YOHO, BURCHETT, CLINE,
COMER, and GOODEN changed their
vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mr. GROTHMAN and Mrs.
HARTZLER changed their vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DIESEL EMISSIONS REDUCTION
ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1768) to reauthorize subtitle
G of title VII of the Energy Policy Act
of 2005, relating to diesel emissions re-
duction, and for other purposes, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr. RUSH)
that the House suspend the rules and
pass the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 295, nays
114, not voting 23, as follows:
[Roll No. 516]
YEAS—295
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Cole
Collins (NY)
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Dunn
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Green, Al (TX)
Guthrie
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McNerney
Meeks
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wittman
Woodall
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—114
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Arrington
Babin
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Comer
Conaway
Crawford
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duffy
Duncan
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Keller
Kustoff (TN)
Latta
Lesko
Loudermilk
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
McClintock
McKinley
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Perry
Peterson
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rose, John W.
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Smith (MO)
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walker
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:42 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE7.009 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7548 September 9, 2019
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Womack
Wright
Yoho
NOT VOTING—23
Abraham
Blumenauer
Byrne
Clyburn
Collins (GA)
Costa
Cummings
Deutch
Grijalva
Hudson
Kind
Lamborn
Loebsack
McCarthy
McEachin
Meadows
Meng
Pingree
Posey
Rouzer
Ryan
Speier
Welch
b 1911
Messrs. FERGUSON, CARTER of
Georgia, and WALBERG changed their
vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. POSEY. Madam Speaker, on Monday,
September 9, 2019, my return flight to Wash-
ington, DC, was delayed due to mechanical
difficulties. As such, I was unfortunately un-
able to be present for the legislative session.
Had I been present, I would have voted ‘‘nay’’
on rollcall No. 515, and ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No.
516.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained and missed two votes. Had
I been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on
rollcall No. 515, and ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 516.
f
MOMENT OF SILENCE IN MEMORY
OF THE VICTIMS OF THE TRAG-
EDY THAT OCCURRED AUGUST 4
IN DAYTON, OHIO
(Mr. TURNER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. TURNER. Madam Speaker, on
August 4, a mass murderer opened fire
on innocent civilians in Dayton, Ohio’s
historic Oregon District. Hundreds of
people were present in the street, res-
taurants, and bars in this two-block
area that is less than 5 minutes from
my home.
The killer wore body armor and a
mask and carried over 200 bullets.
Armed with a reconfigured weapon, he
fired almost 50 bullets in 32 seconds. In
that time, he killed nine people and
wounded 27.
Later, we heard a familiar story.
People who knew him had feared that
this man was a danger. He had told
people that he wanted to be a mass
shooter. However, he passed a back-
ground check in the purchase of his
weapon.
My daughter told me of the courage
of the police officers at the scene. She
heard the first shots, turned and
looked, and watched the officers, un-
flinching, run immediately toward the
gunshots. Within 32 seconds of the
shooter opening fire, Dayton Police
took down the shooter.
Let me be clear: The officers didn’t
receive the call in 32 seconds. The offi-
cers didn’t show up in 32 seconds. They
killed him in 32 seconds.
Even with the Dayton Police officers’
incredible heroism, nine innocent civil-
ians were killed, and 27 were wounded
by the shooter’s gunfire. He was armed
with a magazine of 100 bullets and had
another magazine with him. If he had
not been stopped, the death toll could
have been unimaginable.
When the President came to Dayton,
he congratulated the police officers on
their training. Sergeant Knight re-
sponded, ‘‘Sir, you can’t train cour-
age.’’
Today, Sergeant Knight and these
courageous Dayton officers received
the Medal of Valor at the White House:
Officer Jeremy Campbell, Officer Vin-
cent Carter, Officer David Denlinger,
Officer Ryan Nabel, and Officer Brian
Rolfes.
Their bravery and quick action saved
hundreds of people’s lives, including
my own daughter. They are here with
us today and joined by Dayton Mayor
Nan Whaley. Please join me in thank-
ing them.
Now, Madam Speaker, we need to
show the courage of these police offi-
cers. Let’s work together to pass bipar-
tisan bills that actually have a likeli-
hood of becoming law and that will
make our country safer.
The forthcoming debate will be about
our values, American values and
human values. How could we get to a
place where people are routinely kill-
ing innocent people whom they do not
know?
The debate must also be about men-
tal health, how to identify those who
are a threat, remove their ability to do
harm, and get help for those who need
it. This debate will be about violence in
our culture and the virtual world that
so many of these killers have spent
countless hours training in. The Amer-
ican public rightfully demands that
this debate will include a conversation
about guns.
As we pause for a moment of silence
to think of those who were lost in Day-
ton, Ohio, let’s think of all of those
who have been lost in mass shootings,
their families, and our obligations to
them.
I am going to ask that our moment
of silence lasts for 32 seconds so that as
this body thinks of those whom we
have lost, the horrific understanding of
how quickly the passing of 32 seconds
occurs and that, within that time, nine
people were murdered, and 27 people
were injured.
My fellow colleague from Ohio, JOYCE
BEATTY, knows the family of one of the
victims. I have asked her to read the
names of each of those killed before I
ask Members to join me in 32 seconds
of silence in honor of them.
Mrs. BEATTY. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. TURNER. I yield to the gentle-
woman from Ohio.
Mrs. BEATTY. Madam Speaker, I
thank the officers and Mayor Whalen.
Megan Betts;
Monica Brickhouse;
Nicholas Cumer;
Derrick Fudge;
Thomas McNichols;
Lois Oglesby;
Saeed Saleh;
Logan Turner;
Beatrice Warren-Curtis.
Mr. TURNER. Madam Speaker, I now
ask that Members and guests in the
House rise for 32 seconds of silence.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 205, PROTECTING AND SE-
CURING FLORIDA’S COASTLINE
ACT OF 2019; PROVIDING FOR
CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 1146,
ARCTIC CULTURAL AND COAST-
AL PLAIN PROTECTION ACT; AND
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 1941, COASTAL AND MA-
RINE ECONOMIES PROTECTION
ACT
Mr. HASTINGS, from the Committee
on Rules, submitted a privileged report
(Rept. No. 116–200) on the resolution (H.
Res. 548) providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 205) to amend the Gulf of
Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 to
permanently extend the moratorium
on leasing in certain areas of the Gulf
of Mexico; providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 1146) to amend Public
Law 115–97 (commonly known as the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act) to repeal the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge oil and
gas program, and for other purposes;
and providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 1941) to amend the Outer Con-
tinental Shelf Lands Act to prohibit
the Secretary of the Interior including
in any leasing program certain plan-
ning areas, and for other purposes,
which was referred to the House Cal-
endar and ordered to be printed.
f
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 1748
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to
be removed as a cosponsor for H.R.
1748.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
f
PERIPHERAL ARTERY DISEASE
AWARENESS MONTH
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, Sep-
tember is Peripheral Artery Disease
Awareness Month.
Known as PAD, it is a life-threat-
ening and chronic circulatory condi-
tion. It causes blood vessels from the
heart to the legs to narrow, slows or
blocks blood from getting into the legs
of sufferers, and could lead to unneces-
sary amputation.
Far too little is known about an ill-
ness that afflicts almost 20 million
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE7.010 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7549
September 9, 2019
Americans today and could lead to 3.6
million Americans losing a leg in the
next 30 years, according to researchers
at Johns Hopkins University.
It is a personal battle for me as an
African American who suffers from dia-
betes. The disease is three times more
likely to affect African Americans, and
diabetes is one of the high-risk factors.
Fortunately, it is easy to prevent.
That is why I started the Congressional
PAD Caucus in the House with my col-
league, GUS BILIRAKIS from Florida.
Amputation is one of the most phys-
ically and emotionally damaging inju-
ries a person can experience, especially
if it is unnecessary. We need to focus
more attention and resources to a
problem with a clear solution and save
sufferers and families an unnecessary
trauma.
f
HONORING WORLD CHAMPION
EASTBANK ALL-STARS
(Mr. SCALISE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate the Eastbank
All-Stars from River Ridge, Louisiana,
for winning the 73rd Little League
World Series Championship.
It is exciting any time that the
United States competes against the
world and wins and does so in such a
classy fashion that represents the
great values of this Nation. It is even
more special that these young men
from my district were the first in the
State of Louisiana’s history to win the
Little League World Series.
It was an exciting series for all of us.
It captured the imagination of the peo-
ple of Louisiana, especially to watch
how these young men represented
themselves and the rest of us in such a
classy way as they competed against
the nation of Curacao and ultimately
delivered an 8–0 victory for the United
States.
I, along with all of my colleagues
from Louisiana, introduced H. Res. 547
to formally congratulate these young
men. They look forward to going to the
White House to meet the President. He
has extended the invitation.
It is a great moment for Louisiana
and a great moment for the United
States, especially for River Ridge, Lou-
isiana.
f
APPLAUDING U.S. COAST GUARD’S
RESPONSE TO HURRICANE DORIAN
(Mr. CRIST asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CRIST. Madam Speaker, today, I
rise to applaud the heroic work of the
United States Coast Guard in response
to the historic Category 5 Hurricane
Dorian.
The Coast Guard motto is ‘‘Always
Ready,’’ and they have shown that in
the wake of this disaster. By strategi-
cally positioning personnel, aircraft,
and cutters ahead of the storm, they
were able to respond quickly and save
lives. In fact, in total, the Coast Guard
first responders rescued over 200 people
in Dorian’s wake.
Back home in Pinellas County, Flor-
ida, I had the opportunity to visit the
first responder crews from Coast Guard
Air Station Clearwater after they re-
turned home. We could not be prouder
of their dedication as well as their
service.
Again, I thank the brave folks of the
United States Coast Guard for always
being ready to keep America—and our
neighbors—safe and secure.
f
CONGRATULATING WINSTON-
SALEM STATE UNIVERSITY, THE
NATION’S TOP PUBLIC HBCU FOR
VALUE
(Ms. FOXX of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise to congratulate Win-
ston-Salem State University, WSSU, in
North Carolina’s Fifth District on its
recent ranking by Money magazine as
the Nation’s best public Historically
Black University for value. The publi-
cation considered 26 different measures
of value, including affordability, edu-
cation quality, and graduates’ record of
landing well-paying jobs.
Many institutions do not make time-
ly completion of college a priority,
leading to increased debt for the six
out of 10 students who take more than
6 years to graduate. WSSU is a bright
spot in our Nation’s university system,
though, with the average student grad-
uating in under 5 years and alumni
earning an average $46,200 annually
within 3 years of graduation.
Chancellor Elwood Robinson, WSSU
administrators, and faculty should be
very proud to lead our Nation’s His-
torically Black Universities and Col-
leges in value. I applaud the school’s
dedication to honoring the financial
sacrifices made to pursue postsec-
ondary education.
f
COMMEMORATING THE YEAR OF
RETURN
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to speak on a number of
points—first of all, to acknowledge the
killing and mass murder in El Paso, in
Dayton, and in Odessa. I think it is
calling upon this Congress not only to
pray but to do, and I plan to do.
Let me also indicate that this is the
Year of Return, 400 years that enslaved
Africans came to the United States.
Millions were enslaved and came. From
1789 to 1865, the institution of slavery
was constitutionally and statutorily
sanctioned.
I am glad to have been part of a his-
toric trip to Ghana with my colleague
and the Speaker of the House to honor
the Year of Return and thank the
Ghanan leadership for its welcoming of
those of us who came to honor that his-
tory, although tragic with the loss of
life and the issue of wealth being cre-
ated in this Nation.
Let me also remind our colleagues
that we are glad that our neighbors in
the Southeast survived, but I want to
remind us of the devastation in the Ba-
hamas. We must not let our neighbors
suffer. We must rise up with funding.
We must recognize that they are our
neighbors. We must deal with immigra-
tion laws, and we must be receptive,
Mr. Speaker, to helping them get back
on their feet. I know this Congress and
this House will work together when our
fellow neighbors are suffering the way
they are suffering.
f
b 1930
CONGRATULATING BEN WEAVER
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize
Ben Weaver, owner of SERVPRO, a
damage restoration company in
Ebensburg, Pennsylvania, Cambria
County, that specializes in fire, water,
and mold remediation.
Ben is an Army National Guard vet-
eran, who was recently named the
Western Pennsylvania Veteran-Owned
Small Business Person of the Year by
the Small Business Administration.
I was pleased to be back in Ebensburg
recently to present a commendation
for this award. What started out as Ben
in one truck as his mobile office, has
become a growing company of 22 em-
ployees, a fleet of 20 trucks, and a
10,000-square-foot office building in
Ebensburg, with a second office open-
ing soon in Indiana, Pennsylvania.
Ben was able to launch his business,
thanks to the help of an SBA-backed
7(a) loan but attributes his success to
being active in his community. Ben
mentioned that the community is like
a family. He said, ‘‘in the end, people
really want to do business with people
they know—their extended family.’’
Madam Speaker, I applaud Ben’s
dedication. He is certainly deserving of
this award.
f
NAFTA 2.0/USMCA
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, the
original NAFTA has been one of the
most destructive economic forces to
jobs in America. There hasn’t been a
single year of trade balance since its
passage.
I fought NAFTA tooth and nail when
it was considered back in the 1990s.
And as the Representative for working
class communities from Toledo to
Cleveland, I have since joined every
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09SE7.022 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7550 September 9, 2019
one of my constituents in bearing wit-
ness to the devastating effects of what
some call ‘‘free trade.’’
On the campaign trail, President
Trump repeatedly boasted he would
scrap NAFTA and renegotiate a better
deal. But his proposal lacks common-
sense labor enforcement provisions,
falls short of pressuring companies to
reshore American jobs, and it provides
massive carveouts for Big Pharma that
will cause the price of prescription
drugs to skyrocket even more.
I have always been an advocate for
fair trade among free people, but
NAFTA crashed the largest economy in
the world—the United States—into
that of a developing nation—Mexico—
without any plan to deal with the
human and economic consequences.
Madam Speaker, as currently writ-
ten, the USMCA, NAFTA 2.0, continues
this failed legacy of NAFTA 1.0, and re-
mains a failure for the American work-
er. The USMCA is just NAFTA 2.0. It
should be defeated.
f
SOUTH CAROLINA’S SECOND
DISTRICT BUS TOUR
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, every August, I par-
ticipate in a bus tour of South Caro-
lina’s Second District with my wife,
Roxanne, and dedicated staff from
Washington and district offices.
I especially appreciate scheduler
Stephanie Pendarvis for successfully
coordinating her first bus tour in the
tradition of Emily Saleeby.
Our trip consisted of over 20 stops
across 5 counties in the district. It was
humbling and inspiring to meet with
constituents at small businesses,
schools, chambers of commerce, and
manufacturers.
Many of the stops I visited were rap-
idly growing, including Charter NEX
Films of Columbia, a world leader in
high-performance specialty films, who
plan to add 100 more jobs, along with
Swiss Krono of Barnwell, who plan to
add 105 jobs. In addition, the Orange-
burg County/City Industrial Park has
begun construction to welcome new
businesses and jobs.
I appreciate the Irmo Chamber of
Commerce hosting a town hall on the
tour. I am grateful to be accessible and
accountable to constituents.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
EXPEDITED ENTRY AND TPS FOR
BAHAMIANS
(Ms. WATERS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. WATERS. Madam Speaker, I rise
in support, strong support, for the peo-
ple of the Bahamas in the aftermath of
Hurricane Dorian. Residents of the
Grand Bahama and Abaco Islands are
in a desperate situation.
This is a humanitarian crisis, the
likes of which has never before faced
the Bahamas. I am grateful for the ef-
forts of the USAID and the U.S. Coast
Guard, which have been instrumental
in leading search-and-rescue efforts
and providing emergency food assist-
ance to Bahamians.
As the chair of the House Committee
on Financial Services and co-chair of
the Congressional Caribbean Caucus, I
strongly support an expedited U.S. visa
application process or a waiver process
for Bahamians who are seeking to
enter the U.S., and I am extremely sup-
portive of the extension of the Tem-
porary Protected Status designation
for all Bahamians who cannot safely
return to the Bahamas.
Displaced Bahamians must be treated
with respect, and all applications for
visas must be processed efficiently and
in an emergency manner. The road to
recovery for Bahamians will be long
and difficult, but all Bahamians must
be treated with respect.
Madam Speaker, the United States is
standing with the Bahamas during this
difficult time. We will do all that we
can to aid in the recovery efforts in the
coming weeks and months.
f
COMMEMORATING FRANCIS
BELLAMY
(Mr. COLLINS of New York asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. COLLINS of New York. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to commemorate
Francis Bellamy, one of the most influ-
ential individuals from Mount Morris,
New York.
Francis Bellamy is the author of the
Pledge of Allegiance. Yesterday
marked the 127th anniversary of the
Pledge of Allegiance, which was first
published in a magazine called The
Youth Companion on September 8, 1892.
The pledge was initially written as
part of a campaign to put American
flags in every school in the country. In
its original form, it read:
‘‘I pledge allegiance to my Flag and
the Republic for which it stands, one
nation, indivisible, with liberty and
justice for all.’’
In 1923, the words ‘‘the flag of the
United States of America’’ were added.
And in 1954, Congress added the words,
‘‘under God’’ creating the 31-word
pledge we say today.
Bellamy’s words are recited millions
of times every day and are engrained in
our society as an expression of national
pride and patriotism.
f
D.C. STATEHOOD
(Ms. NORTON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, on
Thursday, September 19, the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform will
hold a historic hearing on D.C. state-
hood. It will be the first hearing on
H.R. 51 in 26 years.
This is not an informational hearing,
Madam Speaker. This is a jurisdic-
tional hearing in every meaning of that
word.
The State will still be called Wash-
ington, D.C., but D.C. will stand for
Douglass Commonwealth after the im-
mortal Frederick Douglass, who cham-
pioned equal rights for D.C. citizens.
D.C. residents pay the highest Fed-
eral taxes per capita in the United
States. No wonder this bill has almost
enough cosponsors to pass right now. It
is not too late to cosponsor. Don’t let
H.R. 51 go to the House floor without
you.
f
HONORING SEPTEMBER VETERAN
OF THE MONTH ANDY KOEHL
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor World War II veteran,
Colonel Andy Koehl, U.S. Army Re-
tired.
Colonel Koehl enlisted in the Wis-
consin National Guard in 1936. During
World War II, he spent 43 months in the
South Pacific, during which he partici-
pated in five amphibious landings as an
artillery officer, was wounded in ac-
tion, and was awarded the Purple
Heart.
In August 1945, he again risked his
life as one of the first occupation
troops to enter Hiroshima after the
atomic bomb.
Following World War II, he continued
his stellar career by serving multiple
worldwide tours of duty, including
service in Vietnam from 1961 to 1963 as
part of the first advisors dispatched to
that area.
And this past May, Colonel Koehl
celebrated his 100th birthday. But in
fact, it is we who celebrate him.
Our Nation owes him a debt of grati-
tude for all he has endured over 30
years of service to protect our free-
doms and a faith that brought him
through the darkest days of war.
Madam Speaker, I thank Colonel
Koehl. I thank him for blessing us with
his life of sacrifice.
f
CONGRATULATING CAPE MAY 4–H
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker,
Cape May County’s 4–H Foundation
and Fairgrounds recently celebrated
their 50th anniversary. After many
years of moving from place to place,
the 4–H Fair opened on July 24, 1969, at
its current fairgrounds in Cape May
County in South Jersey.
Many of the traditions established
back then are still carried on today,
such as a chicken BBQ, pet parade, and
talent show for the young people who
participate in the 4–H program.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09SE7.024 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7551
September 9, 2019
Through clubs that specialize in
things like fishing, small animals, rep-
tiles, horses, sewing, robotics, the pro-
gram enriches many aspects of learn-
ing.
Research has shown that young peo-
ple in 4–H are almost four times as
likely to engage in STEM programs
during the school year, thanks to what
they explore and learn during their
time in the program.
The four H’s stands for Head, Heart,
Hands, and Health, and it is clear that
Cape May County 4–H has been deep-
ening these young people’s skills in all
of these areas.
To all the participants, workers, vol-
unteers, and especially Linda Horner of
Cape May County’s 4–H Foundation
and Fairgrounds, congratulations on 50
years, for sure.
You are helping youth become con-
fident, mature adults ready to take on
the world. And you are making South
Jersey proud.
f
RECOGNIZING LAURA ANDERSON
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Ms.
Laura Anderson, who retired from her
broadcasting post with WTKS in Sa-
vannah on September 6.
Originally from South Carolina, Ms.
Anderson came to the First Congres-
sional District of Georgia after her col-
lege graduation for love, life, and work.
For life, it was our large green spaces
and easygoing people in our area. The
love portion included her marriage and
becoming a mother. But her work is
what nearly everyone in Savannah has
woken up to for the past 21 years.
Ms. Anderson hosted the Savannah
News Now radio program on WTKS,
along with her morning costar, Mr. Bill
Edwards. With high-quality news, the
program has become one of the most
trusted in the Savannah area, inter-
viewing countless community leaders,
and giving commuters important daily
updates.
Now, she is leaving the air to spend
more time with her family.
Madam Speaker, I wish Laura the
best of luck in her future endeavors.
Laura will be missed on the air every
morning.
f
DEVASTATING FIRES AFFECTING
THE WEST
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, dur-
ing our August recess, we had a very
successful trip to the Tahoe area look-
ing at some of the work that has been
done following the Angora Fire some
years ago for recovering our forested
areas and doing the types of thinning
and management that needs to be done
to make our areas much more fire-safe
and sustainable into the future.
This has been a very successful and
bipartisan effort. Senator FEINSTEIN, as
well as our local Members of the House,
had support of this work. And we are at
that time of year again—devastating
fires affecting the West, affecting my
own district in California right now.
The one known as the Walker fire is
burning our national forest in Plumas
County—people are being displaced,
having to desperately move their cattle
out of the area.
And a lot of good work is being done.
A lot of dozers are up there, a lot of
aircraft are going. But why do we have
to do this year after year after year?
We should be managing our assets—the
people’s assets—our national forest—in
a way that makes it fire-safe, it makes
the habitat safe for the wildlife that is
there. And later on, all the negative ef-
fects you have from all the ash and all
the things that get into the streams,
you have negative water quality. We
need to be much more proactive.
Madam Speaker, there are 44,000
acres burning in my district right now,
just on that one Walker fire and the
fear people have to put up with, and
the loss of wildlife.
We have to do much more. We need
the Forest Service to be empowered
with the tools to get this work done.
f
b 1945
400TH ANNIVERSARY OF FIRST
ENSLAVED AFRICANS BROUGHT
TO AMERICA
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ). Under the Speaker’s
announced policy of January 3, 2019,
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
LEE) is recognized for 60 minutes as the
designee of the majority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. LEE of California. Madam
Speaker, I would like to ask unani-
mous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on my Special Order
for tonight.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. LEE of California. Madam
Speaker, I am honored tonight to share
and conduct the Special Order spon-
sored by the Congressional Black Cau-
cus, and I want to thank Chairwoman
KAREN BASS for her tremendous leader-
ship of the Congressional Black Caucus
and for holding this Special Order to-
night in our effort to raise to the pub-
lic and this body’s attention the ob-
servance of 400 years since the first
enslaved Africans were brought to the
shores of America, which began 250
years of one of the most horrific crimes
committed against humanity: the gov-
ernment-sanctioned institution of slav-
ery.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tlewoman from California (Chair-
woman BASS) for her statement, and I
want to say to her that I really com-
mend her tonight for her leadership
and, really, for keeping Africa as cen-
tral in our foreign policy, because we
are all reminded, through her leader-
ship, that Africa does matter.
Ms. BASS. Madam Speaker, as chair
of the Congressional Black Caucus,
along with my fellow CBC colleagues, I
am pleased to join Congresswoman
BARBARA LEE, Congressman BOBBY
SCOTT, and Congresswoman ALMA
ADAMS for this CBC Special Order hour.
Tonight, my colleagues and I will take
the time to commemorate the 400th an-
niversary of the first enslaved Africans
arriving in the United States.
The transatlantic slave trade was the
largest coerced migration of human
beings in the history of the world. An
estimated 10 to 12 million enslaved Af-
ricans were transported across the At-
lantic Ocean between the 16th and 19th
centuries.
The brutality, murder, rape, disease,
and starvation were so high that some
historians assess that around 15 to 25
percent of the enslaved Africans died
aboard slave ships.
Slavery in the United States offi-
cially lasted from 1619 to 1865, or 246
years. Enslaved Africans worked 10 or
more hours a day, in dangerous condi-
tions, and also worked 18-hour days in
peak cotton-picking and sugar harvest
season.
The average lifespan of enslaved Afri-
cans who labored on sugar and rice
plantations was only 7 years. Violence
on the plantations was always a danger
and threat to the lives of enslaved
human beings.
Wealth from the enslaved Africans
and their labor established global cap-
italism and set the economic founda-
tion for Europe, the Caribbean, and the
Americas.
According to the National Museum of
African American History and Culture,
by 1860, 4 million enslaved people pro-
duced well over 60 percent of the Na-
tion’s wealth, and the slave trade val-
ued them at $2.7 billion. The financial
legacy of the slave trade contributed to
the creation of nation-states such as
France, Spain, Portugal, the Nether-
lands, Great Britain, South America,
the Caribbean, as well as the United
States.
One of the contemporary myths that
too many Americans believe is that
only the South gained from slavery.
However, both the southern and north-
ern economies of the United States
profited from slavery. For example, in
Manhattan, enslaved Black men ac-
counted for one third of the labor force
by 1740.
During Reconstruction, former
enslaved Africans made some progress:
The first Black Members of Congress
were elected to the House and the Sen-
ate. Nevertheless, Black Members of
Congress were still not allowed to eat
in the same cafeteria as their White
colleagues and were segregated, over-
all, in the institution.
And this went on for many years.
There was a period in which there were
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09SE7.026 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7552 September 9, 2019
no African Americans in Congress at
all because they were run out.
Black Codes adopted under Recon-
struction in the South and some areas
of the North restricted freed Blacks
from equal political rights, access to
quality education, and jobs. For exam-
ple, the State of Mississippi enacted a
Black Code law to arrest free African
Americans who were unemployed and
lacked permanent housing. They could
be arrested and bound out for a term of
labor if unable to pay the fine, which
means they were just reenslaved, and
they used the criminal justice system
to reenslave people.
When Reconstruction ended in 1877,
the majority of African Americans
lived in the Southern States; however,
the southerners used their power in
State and local governments to pass
new laws, Jim Crow laws. Some people
refer to this as U.S. apartheid.
As a matter of fact, when White
South Africans were setting up the
apartheid system in the early part of
the 20th century, they traveled to the
southern part of the United States to
learn what we did so they could rep-
licate it.
The civil rights movement was born
out of the need to resist second-class
citizenship and to demand that Amer-
ica deliver on the promises in the U.S.
Constitution.
The 1964 Civil Rights Act granted the
Federal Government a new role in de-
segregating schools and other public
facilities. The progress that was made
and the legislation that was eventually
passed in the U.S. Congress was made
because of a massive grassroots move-
ment that we have come to know as
the civil rights movement.
Many laws were passed that allowed
for equality or access to education.
But, as soon as those laws were passed,
unfortunately, they were challenged in
the Supreme Court.
So, as we remember and honor the
400th anniversary of all the enslaved
Africans’ arrival in America, we must
never forget the tragedies, successes,
and contributions that all of them
made, and that African Americans are
a part of the very fabric of America
and have made significant contribu-
tions in every major field.
Oftentimes, we tell the glorious his-
tory of the United States, but, at some
point in time, we will embrace all of
the history of the United States and
not just focus on the parts that make
us all feel good.
Ms. LEE of California. Madam
Speaker, I thank Chairwoman BASS for
laying out much of the history and re-
minding us that this is really an oppor-
tunity to recognize the resilience, the
renewal, and the strength of Africans
and African Americans. Through much
adversity, as the gentlewoman laid out,
African Americans, the descendants of
enslaved people, continued to rise from
our brutal past.
I thank the gentlewoman again for
her leadership.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Virginia (Mr. SCOTT),
chairman of our Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, who has led so many
efforts to educate the public with re-
gard to this 400th year commemoration
and, also, the real significance of the
Middle Passage as it relates to not only
400 years ago, but today.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to share some re-
flections on events commemorating
the first arrival of enslaved Africans to
English colonies, to North America, in-
cluding a forum my colleague, Rep-
resentative DONALD MCEACHIN, hosted
in Richmond earlier this summer and
the events that took place on Fort
Monroe National Monument last
month.
It was my great honor, along with
Representative LURIA, to welcome Con-
gressional Black Caucus Chairwoman
KAREN BASS and fellow CBC member
LACY CLAY to Hampton Roads for the
solemn occasion marking the 400th an-
niversary of the first landing of
enslaved Africans to English-speaking
North America.
The history of our Nation cannot be
fully understood or appreciated with-
out knowing and acknowledging the
stories of those first what they said
was ‘‘20 and odd’’ Africans and the mil-
lions who followed them.
This was a goal that Senator KAINE
and I had in mind when we drafted H.R.
1242, a bill to establish a Federal 400
Years of African-American History
Commission. The goal of that commis-
sion was to explore ways to commemo-
rate not just the events of 1619, but
also to recognize all that has happened
since.
The city of Hampton and the Com-
monwealth of Virginia did a tremen-
dous job in organizing events, includ-
ing those last month, to commemorate
and reflect on what happened in 1619;
but it is incumbent that we, as a body,
support the ongoing and necessary
work of that commission beyond 2019,
as we committed to do when we passed
H.R. 1242.
Senator KAINE and I are working
with our colleagues in Congress to se-
cure Federal funding to support the
work of the commission, which is man-
dated under H.R. 1242 to plan programs
to commemorate the history, recognize
the resiliency of the African American
community, acknowledge the impact
that slavery and legalized racial dis-
crimination has had on our country,
and educate the public about those im-
pacts and contributions to our commu-
nity.
The commission is also directed to
provide technical assistance to State,
local, and nonprofit groups working to
further the commemorations as well as
ongoing research on our complicated
history.
Madam Speaker, $1 million was in-
cluded in the House version of the fis-
cal year 2020 Department of the Inte-
rior appropriations bill to support the
commission’s work, and that legisla-
tion passed the House earlier this year.
I am committed to making sure that
these funds are actualized. Thankfully,
there is significant precedent for Fed-
eral support for commissions like this.
Additionally, in recognizing the tre-
mendous task before the commis-
sioners and the funding challenges they
faced, Senator KAINE and I are also ac-
tively exploring ways to extend the
work of the commission for several
years beyond its present July 2020 ter-
mination date.
This part of our Nation’s history is
far too important to let this oppor-
tunity pass. Every American should be
afforded the chance to understand and
learn from it.
As we gathered at the site of where
slavery first arrived on our shores 400
years ago, we reflected on our com-
plicated history; we celebrated the re-
siliency and many contributions of the
descendants of those slaves; and we are
committed to following the research
and effectively addressing the issues
that continue to plague our commu-
nities, including, a tax on our voting
rights, police brutality, environmental
injustice, and disparities in education,
housing, wealth, and criminal justice.
So, as we reflect on the events of
1619, let us all commit to construc-
tively address those horrific years of
slavery and legal racial discrimination
and move forward with the strength,
wisdom, and resolve of our ancestors.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank the
gentlewoman from California for con-
vening this Special Order.
Ms. LEE of California. Madam
Speaker, I thank the gentleman from
Virginia for that very powerful state-
ment and, also, for the very hard and
diligent work that he has been engaged
in around the commission and what he
is doing each and every day to educate
not only his district, but the entire
country with regard to not only the
past, but, also, where we must go from
here. I thank Chairman SCOTT again.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tlewoman from North Carolina (Ms.
ADAMS). Congresswoman ADAMS serves
on the Financial Services Committee
and the Committee on Education and
Labor. But, also, I always have to say
that I know her as an artist, as a pro-
fessor, but also as a great public serv-
ant. I thank the gentlewoman, again,
for being with us tonight.
Ms. ADAMS. Madam Speaker, it is
my privilege to be here tonight, and I
want to thank the gentlewoman from
California for not only her wisdom and
guidance and for leading this session
tonight, but for all of the distinguished
work that she has done for so many
years.
I also congratulate the chair of the
CBC, KAREN BASS, for the leadership
that she is providing, as well as the
chair of the Committee on Education
and Labor, on which I have the privi-
lege of sitting, Congressman BOBBY
SCOTT.
I rise today, Madam Speaker, to join
my colleagues in recognition of the
400th anniversary of the first recorded
forced arrival of enslaved African peo-
ple in America.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09SE7.027 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7553
September 9, 2019
This anniversary marks the begin-
ning of a legacy of oppression and dis-
crimination, the effects of which we
still live with today. From those first
19 Africans who reached Jamestown,
upwards to 12 million Africans would
be kidnapped from their homes and
brought to the new world.
Those men and women had almost
everything taken from them: their
names, their religion, their families,
and their freedom. But the one thing
that couldn’t be taken from them was
their spirit.
The culture and customs that they
brought to America leave a heritage
for us, their descendants, to be proud
of, to recognize how far we have come
and how far we still have to go.
We know structural racism in our so-
ciety didn’t end in 1865. We know it
didn’t end in 1965. We know that there
are still racial disparities in access to
employment and education and
healthcare. We know racial bias per-
sists in our criminal justice system,
and we know that pay disparities still
exist along racial lines.
The shameful legacy of slavery re-
mains, and it is incumbent upon us, the
Joshua generation, to keep us moving
forward.
One of the first things we can do to
keep us on the path to a more equi-
table future is to have a full reckoning
with our past. It is long past time for
us, as a society, to have an open and
honest conversation about the lasting
effects of slavery in America.
My esteemed colleague Congress-
woman SHEILA JACKSON LEE picked up
the torch and introduced H.R. 40, the
Commission to Study and Develop Rep-
aration Proposals for African-Ameri-
cans Act, of which I am a proud co-
sponsor.
We need to have that open national
dialogue to come to terms with how we
as a nation have not historically lived
up to our ideals.
The advocacy of our youth who fight
for consideration of this bill is a call-
back to the fights that made public ac-
commodations open to all races and
that made the voting booth open to all
as well.
It is a callback to the abolitionists
who awakened the public to the hor-
rors of slavery and the Black men who
became soldiers to protect and preserve
our Union and their freedom.
It is a callback to the 19 Africans
who landed in chains on those Virginia
shores 400 years ago who never gave up
the hope that one day they would once
again be free.
b 2000
Ms. LEE of California. Madam
Speaker, I thank Congresswoman
ADAMS for that very eloquent state-
ment, and also for what she is doing
with our young people as the chair of
our Historically Black College and Uni-
versity Caucus. What the gentlewoman
is doing in terms of pulling us all to-
gether on behalf of the education of all
of our children is remarkable. And she
is not only teaching us how to teach
them, but also leading the way on so
many issues as an educator.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr. PAYNE),
who serves on the Homeland Security
Committee and the Transportation
Committee.
Congressman PAYNE’s whole life has
been about addressing the inequities
and the vestiges of this last 400 years.
But also, he grew up in a household
where his dad, our great friend, the
late Congressman Don Payne, focused
on Africa. His son, Congressman DON
PAYNE, Jr., has Africa in his blood as a
result of growing up in a household
with his wonderful, beloved father.
I thank the gentleman for being here.
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, let me
first thank the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia for those kind remarks. She has
been a consummate fighter for equality
for all people across this world, a true
humanitarian in her own right, from
Oakland, California.
I had the great honor, during the
time we celebrated her birthday, to see
a picture of her with this Afro that was
indicative of the times. It was perfect,
and I was not surprised.
But her work in the Congress is sec-
ond to none, and she has been a true
role model for me, a true friend to my
father. He always had high accolades
for the gentlewoman from California,
and now that I am her colleague, I un-
derstand why.
Madam Speaker, this year marks
what I would call ‘‘America’s Great
Economic Shame.’’
In 1619, the first boats filled with vic-
tims of human bondage reached our
shores. When they docked, the very
first African Americans walked off a
plank and into American history. They
would create a dilemma for the leaders
and citizens of this new republic that
has not been solved to this day.
They were considered unequal in a
country where all men were created
equal. Their existence would cause oth-
erwise pious and moral men to engage
in the most immoral behavior. And
they came together to fight for one
goal: the belief that one day, someday,
they would be free at last.
As we commemorate the 400th anni-
versary of enslaved Africans reaching
this land, America, it is important to
discuss how far African Americans
have come as a culture and a commu-
nity and how far we have yet to go.
When I look around this Chamber, I
see the results of how far we have
come. There are now 55 African Ameri-
cans in the United States House of
Representatives, led by a champion of
our commitment to freedom, Congress-
man JOHN LEWIS.
This representation would have
seemed impossible 400 years ago. Back
then, African Americans were consid-
ered property. Back then, families
could be torn apart for a greater eco-
nomic interest. Back then, African
Americans in slave States could be
killed for something as simple as learn-
ing to read.
We did not ask to be slaves, yet we
triumphed in spite of it. We knew they
might own our bodies, but they would
never control our spirit.
We have succeeded in every area of
American life. Let us look at just a few
ways that we have altered America for
the better.
It is easy to talk about how almost
every original American music style
comes from our community, every-
thing from jazz to blues to hip-hop, but
there are several inventions we use
daily that came from African Ameri-
cans.
We invented America’s first clock
and then the first automatic elevator
doors.
We invented the traffic light.
We invented the clothes dryer and
the electric lamp.
We invented the ice cream scoop, the
lawnmower, the mailbox, and even the
heart pacemaker.
We have triumphed over tragedy, but
we still have a way to go.
Right now, local, State, and national
politicians are trying to reverse our
civil rights. They could work to sup-
port us; instead, they want to deny us
our vote. That is why we need to stick
together and avoid the desire to focus
on our differences.
It is important that we remember
that it was coming together as a com-
munity that helped us survive the hor-
rors of slavery; that it was our com-
mitment to the common ideals of
brotherhood, sisterhood, and family
that helped us succeed. We need to re-
member that.
In these times where forces try to
tear us apart, it is our common ances-
try that can bring us together. It was
true 400 years ago, and it is true today.
Ms. LEE of California. Madam
Speaker, I thank Congressman PAYNE,
first of all, for his kind and gracious
words, but, also, for that brilliant pres-
entation reminding us again not only
of our history, but how we have risen
to be great leaders in our country.
I also want to thank the gentleman
for his steady leadership on so many
issues, including healthcare, and how
he is working to raise the issue of the
racial gaps as it relates to people of
color, as it relates to diabetes and all
of those health indices that we have to
close these gaps. I thank him for being
here tonight and participating.
Madam Speaker, how much time do I
have remaining, please?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from California has 35 min-
utes remaining.
Ms. LEE of California. Madam
Speaker, 400 years ago, as we have
heard tonight, the first slave ship ar-
rived in Virginia. This began one of the
darkest chapters in American history.
During the course of over 250 years of
slavery—that is, government-sanc-
tioned slavery in America—families
were ripped apart. People were beaten
and brutalized. Men, women, and chil-
dren were sold and traded like objects.
And to this day, Black communities
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09SE7.029 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7554 September 9, 2019
continue to suffer from the genera-
tional trauma from these crimes
against humanity.
That was followed by another 75
years of racism and domestic terrorism
under Jim Crow and segregation, dur-
ing which thousands of African Ameri-
cans were lynched. Churches were
bombed. Entire communities were
burned to the ground in the not-so-re-
cent, distant past.
Racist economic policies also institu-
tionalized the racial hierarchy estab-
lished by slavery and kept African
Americans trapped and segregated dis-
proportionately in poverty: policies
like land seizure laws that left African
American farmers at risk of having
their land seized and turned over to
their White peers; the Fair Labor
Standards Act, which excluded profes-
sions dominated by African Americans
from minimum wage protections; the
separate but equal doctrine in schools
and public facilities; the segregation of
the armed services, in which my dad
served in a segregated military, fight-
ing in two wars for our country.
Jim Crow gave way to decades of rac-
ist housing policies like redlining and
subprime lending that further pre-
vented African Americans from build-
ing wealth; followed by the war on
drugs, which devastated our commu-
nities, tore apart families, and incar-
cerated millions of needlessly incarcer-
ated fellow African Americans.
Today, we see continued disparities
among African Americans due to the
legacy of slavery, racism, and Jim
Crow in America. African Americans
still face disproportionate levels of
poverty, unemployment, and over-
whelming struggles to achieve edu-
cational and economic opportunities.
Health disparities, including the
highest rate of HIV infections, con-
tinue to impact African American com-
munities due to the lack of equal ac-
cess and prevention resources. It is
completely unacceptable that Black
women are four times more likely to
die from preventable pregnancy com-
plications than White women.
Now, for decades, our criminal jus-
tice system has disproportionately tar-
geted communities of color, especially
Black and Brown women and men.
Structural and institutional racism
permeates every aspect of American
society.
And now, sadly, we have a Presi-
dential administration that continues
to ignore our Nation’s dark history of
racism and bondage and, in many ways,
is trying to move us backwards. From
voter suppression, from targeting Afri-
can Americans and people of color with
budget cuts that undermine and affect
their livelihoods to undermining dec-
ades of civil rights, the gains that we
have made, now we see an administra-
tion that is trying to roll those protec-
tions back. This President is trying to
turn back the clock.
Tragically, we are also now seeing
history repeat itself with rampant fam-
ily separation of immigrant families at
the border, children being taken from
their parents and put into cages.
The President has normalized racism
and xenophobia. His constant attacks
on African Americans and people of
color, to questioning the nationality of
our first Black President, to claiming
that there are good people among
white supremacists, his racism has
given others permission to hate out
loud. It has also set the stage for the
toxic mix of racism, gun violence, and
domestic terrorism that is gripping our
country.
Yes, we have a President today, and
an administration, who continues to
fan the flames of the fire that was born
out of slavery.
So let me be clear, though. We aren’t
going back. As I our beloved Dr. Maya
Angelou said: And still we rise.
And just because we aren’t going
back doesn’t mean we shouldn’t look
back and learn from our past. That in-
forms what we must do today.
Now, the Akan people of West Africa,
they have a mythical symbol. It is a
mythical bird. It is a bird called
Sankofa. The bird looks back with an
egg in her mouth. It means reminding
us to look back at our past, to look at
the mistakes we have made, to look at
what happened in our past that has
strengthened us and made us who we
are today, and to move forward and to
not make those same mistakes but to
fly forward, creating a new world based
on justice and freedom.
b 2015
This is our ‘‘Sankofa’’ moment.
Earlier this month we observed the
400th anniversary by travelling to
Ghana with a delegation of Members
led by House Speaker NANCY PELOSI
and Congresswoman KAREN BASS. It
was such a privilege and an honor to
witness and hear our Speaker speak as
the first American Speaker of the
United States of America to the Gha-
naian Parliament. This strengthens the
ties that bind not only between Afri-
cans and African Americans, but be-
tween the African continent and Amer-
ican continent. People in both of our
continents really have a long history
that we need to recognize as being of-
tentimes very difficult but together we
must move forward.
So while we were there, we paid our
respects at Cape Coast and Elmina Cas-
tles. And at the ‘‘Door of No Return’’
we walked through where the first
enslaved Africans departed in chains
bound for America. The experience was
a powerful reminder of the inhumanity
of the slave trade, but it was also em-
powering to witness the strength and
determination of the enslaved to sur-
vive and to build a better future for the
next generation. And we walked back
through the ‘‘Door of Return,’’ what a
glorious moment that was for all Mem-
bers.
So, today, as we observe 400 years
since the first Africans were bought to
these shores, let it be known that this
is a Sankofa moment.
Moving forward, I look forward to
this body addressing the damage
caused by the inhumanity of slavery,
by advancing positive legislation that
uplifts the descendants of those who
were enslaved, including H.R. 40 cham-
pioned by our great warrior, Congress-
woman SHEILA JACKSON LEE, whose
steadfast and brilliant work is edu-
cating the Congress and the public as
to why we need a commission to look
these past inequities, bring them cur-
rent, and how we begin to address them
in 2019.
Let me close by reading a quote from
Nikole Hannah-Jones. She is the au-
thor of the 1619 Project. ‘‘The 1619
Project aims to reframe the country’s
history, understanding 1619 as our true
founding and placing the consequences
of slavery and the contributions of
Black Americans at the very center of
the story we tell ourselves about who
we are.’’
In Hannah-Jones’ seminal piece in
the New York Times she wrote: ‘‘Our
Declaration of Independence, signed on
July 4, 1776, proclaims that ‘all men
are created equal’ and ‘endowed by
their creator with certain inalienable
rights.’ But the white men who drafted
those words did not believe them to be
true for the hundreds of thousands of
Black people in their midst. ‘Life, lib-
erty, and the pursuit of happiness’ did
not apply fully to one-fifth of the coun-
try. Yet despite being violently denied
the freedom and justice promised to
all, Black Americans believed fervently
in the American creed. Through cen-
turies of Black resistance and protest,
we have helped the country to live up
to its founding ideals.’’ She said,
‘‘Without the idealistic, strenuous, and
patriotic efforts of Black Americans,
our democracy today would most like-
ly look very different—it might not be
a democracy at all.’’
Madam Chair, I have this here, and I
want to read a couple of things from
NETWORK, who are our Catholic sis-
ters who are fighting for justice, be-
cause I think this lays it out very
clearly in terms of the progression of
where we have been and where we are
today through some of the laws that
were passed.
So the NETWORK Catholic sisters
laid out the first policy: Slave codes,
1613 to 1860.
Policy 2: Andrew Johnson’s land poli-
cies and sharecropping, 1865 to 1880.
Policy 3: Land seizures, 1865 to 1960.
During the sixties it was repealed.
The National Housing Act of 1934.
This policy, mind you, guaranteed
loans to white people and legally re-
fused loans to Black people. That was
1934. That was enacted in 1934.
The Social Security Act, 1935 to
present. Black people were twice as
likely to experience hunger or poverty
during the Great Depression. And 65
percent of Black people were ineligible
to receive this income support.
The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938.
The GI Bill of 1944.
The Separate but Equal Doctrine,
1954 really to present day.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09SE7.031 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7555
September 9, 2019
Policy 9: Subprime loans, 1970s to
present day.
Policy 10: The War on Drugs, 1971 to
present day.
I really appreciate the sisters and the
nuns for laying this out, because it
shows us the institutional policies, the
laws that were put in place that have
created this new form of slavery. And
this is a very powerful document. I
hope that everyone has a chance to
read this. I include in the RECORD this
document.
[From the Network: Advocates for Justice,
Inspired by Catholic Sisters]
THE RACIAL WEALTH AND INCOME GAP
POLICY 1: SLAVE CODES, THE FUGITIVE SLAVE
ACT, AND AMERICAN CHATTEL SLAVERY (1613–
1860)
The slave codes created ‘‘servitude for nat-
ural life’’ for African laborers. 250+ years
slave labor of millions of African and Black
people was the foundation of the American
economy and global force that it eventually
became. On the eve of the Civil War, Black
slaves were valued at an estimated $3.6 bil-
lion (not scaled for modern inflation), and
none of the Black slaves were able to cash in
on that value.
POLICY 2: ANDREW JOHNSON’S LAND POLICIES
AND SHARECROPPING (1865–1880)
After the Civil War, 4 million Black people
largely resorted to renting the farm land of
their previous master in exchange for a
‘‘share’’ of their crop. This system of
‘‘sharecropping’’ tied farmers to their former
master because they were legally obligated
to buy and sell from them.
POLICY 3: LAND SEIZURES (1865–1960S)
Black people were legally at risk of having
their land seized from 1865 to the 1960’s, due
in part to the sharecropping debt that many
Black farmers found themselves in. White
landowners could arbitrarily declare that
Black farmers or business owners were in
debt at any time and seize their land.
POLICY 4: THE NATIONAL HOUSING ACT OF 1934
This policy guaranteed loans to White peo-
ple and legally refused loans to Black people
and anyone living near Black neighborhoods.
This policy also resulted in Black people
paying sometimes double or triple the
amount to buy a contract from a white per-
son to pay mortgage on a house that legally
wasn’t in their name. Meanwhile, Black peo-
ple were making payments to secure their
chances of being able to own their home,
while still not receiving any equity on the
payments toward that home.
POLICY 5: THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT (1935–
PRESENT)
Black people were twice as likely to expe-
rience hunger or poverty during The Great
Depression, and sixty-five percent of Black
people were ineligible to receive this income
support. This was designed in such a way
that excluded farmworkers and domestic
workers—who were predominantly Black—
from receiving ‘‘old-age’’ and ‘‘unemploy-
ment’’ insurance. To this day, farmworkers
and domestic workers are excluded.
POLICY 6: THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT OF
1938
This was enacted to help lift the economy
out of the Great Depression but excluded a
number of tip-based professions predomi-
nantly held by Black workers from the first
minimum-wage protections. Even though the
Black unemployment and poverty rates were
twice that of White people during the Great
Depression, the very policies meant to al-
leviate economic strain were often withheld
from the Black community, making it hard-
er to build wealth in the future.
POLICY 7: THE G.I. BILL OF 1944
This was enacted to help World War II vet-
erans adjust to civilian life by providing low-
cost home mortgages, low-interest business
loans, tuition assistance, and unemployment
compensation. Most of the benefits distrib-
uted were unavailable to Black service mem-
bers.
POLICY 8: SEPARATE BUT EQUAL DOCTRINE (1954
TO PRESENT DAY)
Despite the Separate but Equal, Doctrine
being overturned in 1954, American schools
are more racially segregated today than they
have been in the past four decades, since
Black students are seven times more likely
to live in areas of concentrated poverty, and
attend underfunded, understaffed, and over-
crowded schools.
POLICY 9: SUBPRIME LOANS (1970S TO PRESENT
DAY)
Starting in the 1970’s and continuing
today, the private sector issued subprime
loans almost exclusively to Black families,
regardless of income, good credit, or finan-
cial history. As a result, Black families con-
tinued to unfairly pay more money for
homes of the same value as their White
counterparts, causing rates of foreclosure
among Black families to increase.
POLICY 10: THE WAR ON DRUGS (1971 TO PRESENT
DAY)
The War on Drugs exacerbated the racial
wealth gap with practices that inherently
targeted Black and brown communities. Al-
though rates of drug use and selling are simi-
lar across racial lines, Black men are up to
10 times as likely to be stopped, searched, ar-
rested, prosecuted, convicted and incarcer-
ated for drug law violations than White.
Ms. LEE of California. Madam
Speaker, finally, let me just close by
thanking Congresswoman KAREN BASS,
once again, for keeping the motherland
of millions of Americans in the fore-
front of our foreign policy, for the Con-
gressional Black Caucus for recog-
nizing the solemnness of this moment,
the importance of this moment and
recognizing that African Americans
after 400 years are continuing to fight
for justice and for freedom and for a
more perfect union for all Americans.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All
Members are reminded to refrain from
engaging in personalities toward the
President.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I rise in recognition and commemoration of the
first enslaved Africans who arrived in the
United States 400 years ago. In 1619, the first
recorded year of African slaves arriving in the
land we now call the United States of Amer-
ica, did not know of our future. Our blood lines
have continued in this country since that time.
Our history in this country began 400 years
ago when the first captured and kidnapped Af-
ricans were put on a boat from the Kingdom
of Ndongo in Angola and landed in North
America.
The African slaves who first landed in
English North America didn’t know that a
whole new classification of black people, Afri-
can Americans, would develop into strong ad-
vocates of equality, justice and freedom for
people of all nations around the world. They
didn’t know about Martin nor Malcom; Mahalia
nor Michelle; all they knew is that they had to
survive. They knew they had to live to fight
another day. And here we are still helping to
build this great nation, today.
While those first 20 survived, millions of
captured, kidnapped, and enslaved Africans
did not, they drowned in horrible deaths in the
Atlantic Ocean. This period of middle passage
was devastating for African people. Those
who survived were traumatized by the deadly
voyage to a land of slavery, the opposite of
freedom. Here in this magnificent Capitol, built
by slaves, in this great city, built by slaves, in
this great nation, built by slaves, we stand
stronger than ever before.
To those who came before us, I honor your
sacrifice and continue your fight for freedom.
400 years later, the fight for survival and free-
dom continues.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I
thank my colleague, Congresswoman Barbara
Lee for anchoring this Special Order recog-
nizing the 400th anniversary of the first slave
arriving in America.
Four hundred years ago the first slave ar-
rived in America, ships set sail from the west
coast of Africa and in the process, began one
of mankind’s most inhumane practices: human
bondage and slavery.
For two centuries, human beings—full of
hopes and fears, dreams and concerns, ambi-
tion and anguish—were transported onto ships
like chattel, and the lives of many forever
changed.
The reverberations from this horrific series
of acts—a transatlantic slave trade that
touched the shores of a colony that came to
be known as America, and later a democratic
republic known as the United States of Amer-
ica—are unknown and worthy of exploration.
Approximately 4,000,000 Africans and their
descendants were enslaved in the United
States and colonies that became the United
States from 1619 to 1865.
The institution of slavery was constitutionally
and statutorily sanctioned by the Government
of the United States from 1789 through 1865.
American Slavery is our country’s original
sin and its existence at the birth of our nation
is a permanent scar on our country’s founding
documents, and on the venerated authors of
those documents, and it is a legacy that con-
tinued well into the last century.
While it is nearly impossible to determine
how the lives touched by slavery could have
flourished in the absence of bondage, we
have certain datum that permits us to examine
how a subset of Americans—African Ameri-
cans—have been affected by the callousness
of involuntary servitude.
We know that in almost every segment of
society—education, healthcare, jobs and
wealth—the inequities that persist in America
are more acutely and disproportionately felt in
Black America.
This historic discrimination continues: Afri-
can-Americans continue to suffer debilitating
economic, educational, and health hardships
including but not limited to having nearly
1,000,000 black people incarcerated; an un-
employment rate more than twice the current
white unemployment rate; and an average of
less than 1/16 of the wealth of white families,
a disparity which has worsened, not improved
over time.
A closer look at the statistics reveals the
stark disparity in these areas.
Black household wealth is less than one fifth
of the national average.
The median black household had a net
worth of just $17,600 in 2016. Yet in that
same year, the median white house hold held
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:32 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K09SE7.032 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7556 September 9, 2019
$171,000 in wealth while the national house-
hold median was $97,300.
The black unemployment rate is 6.6 per-
cent, more than double the national unemploy-
ment rate.
Approximately 31 percent children live in
poverty, compared to 11 percent of white chil-
dren. The national average is 18 percent
which suggests that the percentage of black
children living in poverty is more than 150 per-
cent the national average.
In the healthcare domain, the disparities suf-
fered by African Americans is also troubling.
Over 26 percent of African Americans do
not have health insurance, compared to a na-
tional average between 8.8 percent and 9.1
percent.
One in four African American women are
uninsured.
Compared to national average, African
American adults are 20 percent more likely to
suffer from asthma and three times more likely
to die from it.
Black adults are 72 percent more likely to
suffer from diabetes than average.
Black women are four times more likely to
die from pregnancy related causes, such as
embolisms, and pregnancy-related hyper-
tension, than any other racial group.
In our nation, among children aged 19–35
months, black children were vaccinated at
rates lower than white children: 68 percent
versus 78 percent respectively.
Education has often been called the key to
unlocking social mobility.
African American students are less likely
than white students to have access to college-
ready courses.
In fact, in 2011–12, only 57 percent of black
students have access to a full range of math
and science courses necessary for college
readiness, compared to with 81 percent of
Asian American students and 71 percent of
white students.
Black students spend less time in the class-
room due to discipline, which further hinders
their access to a quality education.
Black students are nearly two times as likely
to be suspended without educational services
as white students.
Black students are also 3.8 times as likely
to receive one or more out-of-school suspen-
sions as white students.
In addition, black children represent 19 per-
cent of the nation’s pre-school population, yet
47 percent of those receiving more than one
out-of-school suspension.
School districts with the most students of
color, on average, receive 15 percent less per
student in state and local funding than the
whitest districts.
And, of course, we cannot consider the dis-
parities between black and white in America
without considering the intersection of African
Americans and the Criminal Justice system.
There are more Black men in bondage
today who are incarcerated or under correc-
tional control, than there were black men who
were enslaved in the 1800s.
The United States locks up African Amer-
ican males at a rate 5.8 times higher than the
most openly racist country in the world ever
did:
South Africa under apartheid (1993), African
American males: 851 per 100,000
United States (2006), African American
males: 4,789 per 100,000
Incarceration is not an equal opportunity
punishment. For example, incarceration rates
in the United States by race were:
African Americans: 2,468 per 100,000
Latinos: 1,038 per 100,000
Whites: 409 per 100,000
African American offenders receive sen-
tences that are 10 percent longer than white
offenders for the same crimes and are 21 per-
cent more likely to receive mandatory-min-
imum sentences than white defendants ac-
cording to the U.S. Sentencing Commission.
Looking at males aged 25–29 and by race,
you can see what is going on even clearer:
For White males ages 25–29: 1,685 per
100,000;
For Latino males ages 25–29: 3,912 per
100,000;
For African American males ages 25–29:
11,695 per 100,000. (That’s 11.7 percent of
Black men in their late 20s.)
Overall, one in 50 murders is ruled justi-
fied—but when the killer is white and the vic-
tim is a black man, the figure climbs to one in
six.
A handgun homicide is nine times more like-
ly to be found justified when the killer is white
and the victim is a black man.
Hand gun killings with a white shooter and
a black male victim exhibit an even more dra-
matic bias: one in four is found justified.
But then again, we knew these inequities
existed I because for many Black Americans,
these disparities are just a part of daily life.
This is why, in 1989, my predecessor as the
most senior African American on this Sep-
tember Judiciary Committee, the honorable
John Conyers, a past Chairman of this Com-
mittee introduced H.R. 40, legislation that
would establish a commission to study and
develop proposals attendant to reparations.
Though many thought it a lost cause, John
Conyers believed that a day would come
when our nation would need to account for the
brutal mistreatment of African-Americans dur-
ing chattel slavery, Jim Crow segregation and
the enduring structural racism endemic to our
society.
I would like to take this moment to person-
ally thank the estimable John Conyers for his
work on this legislation for the last thirty years.
With the rise and normalization of white su-
premacist expression during the Trump admin-
istration, the discussion of H.R. 40 and the
concept of restorative justice have gained
more urgency, garnering the attention of main-
stream commentator, and illustrating the need
for a national reckoning.
H.R. 40 is intended to create the framework
for a national discussion on the enduring im-
pact of slavery and its complex legacy to
begin that necessary process of atonement.
The designation of this legislation as H.R.
40 is intended to memorialize the promise
made by General William T. Sherman, in his
1865 Special Field Order No. 15, to redis-
tribute 400,000 acres of formerly Confederate
owned coastal land in South Carolina and
Florida, subdivided into 40 acre plots.
Since its introduction, H.R. 40 has acted to
spur some governmental acknowledgement of
the sin of slavery, but most often the response
has taken the form of an apology.
However, even the well intentioned commit-
ments to to examine the historical and modern
day implications of slavery by the Clinton ad-
ministration fell short of the mark and failed to
inspire substantive pubic discourse.
Since my reintroduction of H.R. 40 at the
beginning of this Congress, both the legisla-
tion and concept of reparations have become
the focus of national debate.
For many, it is apparent that the success of
the Obama administration has unleashed a
backlash of racism and intolerance that is an
echo of America’s dark past which has yet to
be exorcised from the national consciousness.
Commentators have turned to H.R. 40 as a
response to formally begin the process of ana-
lyzing, confronting and atoning for these dark
chapters of American history.
Even conservative voices, like that of New
York Times columnist David Brooks, are start-
ing to give the reparations cause the hearing
it deserves, observing that ‘‘Reparations are a
drastic policy and hard to execute, but the
very act of talking and designing them heals a
wound and opens a new story.’’
Similarly, a majority of the Democratic presi-
dential contenders have turned to H.R 40 as
a tool for reconciliation, with 17 cosponsoring
or claiming they would sign the bill into law if
elected.
Though critics have argued that the idea of
reparations is unworkable politically or finan-
cially, their focus on money misses the point
of the H.R. 40 commission’s mandate.
The goal of these historical investigations is
to bring American society to a new reckoning
with how our past affects the current condi-
tions of African-Americans and to make Amer-
ica a better place by helping the truly dis-
advantaged.
Consequently, the reparations movement
does not focus on payments to individuals, but
to remedies that can be created in as many
forms necessary to equitably address the
many kinds of injuries sustained from chattel
slavery and its continuing vestiges.
To merely focus on finance is an empty
gesture and betrays a lack of understanding of
the depth of the unaddressed moral issues
that continue to haunt this nation.
While it might be convenient to assume that
we can address the current divisive racial and
political climate in our nation through race
neutral means, experience shows that we
have not escaped our history.
By passing H.R. 40, Congress can start a
movement toward the national reckoning we
need to bridge racial divides.
Reparations are ultimately about respect
and reconciliation—and the hope that one day,
all Americans can walk together toward a
more just future.
We owe it to those who were ripped from
their homes those many years ago an ocean
away; we owe it to the millions of Americans-
yes they were Americans—who were born into
bondage, knew a life of servitude, and died
anonymous deaths, as prisoners of this sys-
tem.
We owe it to the millions of descendants of
these slaves, for they are the heirs to a soci-
ety of inequities and indignities that naturally
filled the vacuum after slavery was formally
abolished 154 years ago.
And let me end as I began, noting that this
year is the 400th commemoration of the 1619
arrival of the first captive Africans in English
North America, at Point Comfort, Virginia.
Let us proceed with the cause of this morn-
ing with a full heart, with the knowledge that
this work will take time and trust.
Let us also do with the spirit of reconciliation
and understanding that this bill represents.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
help address the harm that slavery has had on
our nation by supporting H.R. 40.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:32 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09SE7.018 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7557
September 9, 2019
PUBLICATION OF BUDGETARY
MATERIAL
REVISION TO THE AGGREGATES, ALLOCATIONS,
AND OTHER BUDGETARY LEVELS FOR FISCAL
YEAR 2020
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET,
Washington, DC, September 9, 2019.
MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the Bipar-
tisan Budget Act of 2019 (BBA of 2019), Con-
gressional Budget Act of 1974 (CBA), Bal-
anced Budget and Deficit Control Act of 1985
(BBEDCA), and H. Res. 293 (116th Congress),
I hereby submit for printing in the Congres-
sional Record a revision to the aggregates
and allocations set forth in the Statement of
Aggregates, Allocations, and Other Budg-
etary Levels for Fiscal Year 2020 published in
the Congressional Record on May 3, 2019, as
adjusted.
In accordance with these Acts and House
Resolution, this revision includes an allow-
able adjustment for disaster relief pursuant
to section 251(b) of BBEDCA as contained in
the text of H.R. 3931, the Department of
Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2020,
as reported by the Committee on Appropria-
tions. Additionally, several adjustments
have been made pursuant to, and to conform
with, the BBA of 2019: (1) a revision for dis-
cretionary spending limits pursuant to sec-
tion 101(a) of such Act; (2) a revision for addi-
tional amounts provided for Overseas Con-
tingency Operations pursuant to section
101(b) of such Act; (3) a revision to a previous
Census adjustment pursuant to section 101(c)
of such Act; and (4) a revision to a previous
adjustment for program integrity initiatives
to conform with the BBA of 2019, which does
not provide for additional program integrity
activities beyond current law.
Accordingly, I am revising aggregate
spending levels for fiscal year 2020 and the
allocation for the House Committee on Ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020. For pur-
poses of enforcing titles III and IV of the
CBA and other budgetary enforcement provi-
sions, the revised aggregates and allocation
are to be considered as aggregates and allo-
cations included in the budget resolution,
pursuant to the Statement published in the
Congressional Record on May 3, 2019, as ad-
justed.
Questions may be directed to Jennifer
Wheelock or Raquel Spencer of the Budget
Committee staff.
JOHN YARMUTH.
TABLE 1.—REVISION TO ON-BUDGET AGGREGATES
[On-budget amounts, in millions of dollars]
2020 2020–2029
Current Aggregates:
Budget Authority .................. 3,798,577 n.a.
Outlays ................................. 3,726,329 n.a.
Revenues .............................. 2,740,533 34,847,515
Revision for the Department of
Homeland Security Appropria-
tions Act, 2020 (H.R. 3931):
Budget Authority .................. 14,075 n.a.
Outlays ................................. 704 n.a.
Revenues .............................. – – – – – –
Revisions for the Bipartisan
Budget Act of 2019 (P.L. 116–
37) 1:
Budget Authority .................. ¥9,918 n.a.
Outlays ................................. ¥5,488 n.a.
Revenues .............................. – – – – – –
Revised Aggregates:
Budget Authority .................. 3,802,734 n.a.
Outlays ................................. 3,721,545 n.a.
Revenues .............................. 2,740,533 34,847,515
n.a. = Not applicable because annual apppropriations for fiscal years
2021 through 2029 will not be considered until future sessions of Congress.
1 This amount contains several adjustments: an adjustment for discre-
tionary spending limits; an adjustment for additional amounts provided for
Overseas Contingency operations; and revisions to previous adjustments for
the Census and for program integrity activities.
TABLE 2.—REVISED ALLOCATION OF SPENDING AUTHOR-
ITY TO THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS
[In millions of dollars]
2020
Current Discretionary Action:
BA ............................................................................ 1,384,010
OT ............................................................................ 1,410,812
Revision for Disaster Relief (H.R. 3931):
BA ............................................................................ 14,075
OT ............................................................................ 704
Revision for discretionary spending limits in the Bipar-
tisan Budget Act of 2019 (P.L. 116–37):
BA ............................................................................ ¥7,018
OT ............................................................................ ¥2,935
Revision for OCO amounts in the Bipartisan Budget Act
of 2019 (P.L. 116–37):
BA ............................................................................ 2,500
OT ............................................................................ 1,385
Revision for the Census Adjustment in the Bipartisan
Budget Act of 2019 (P.L. 116–37):
BA ............................................................................ ¥5,000
OT ............................................................................ ¥3,600
Revision for Program Integrity 1 (P.L. 116–37):
BA ............................................................................ ¥400
OT ............................................................................ ¥338
Revised Allocation:
BA ............................................................................ 1,388,167
OT ............................................................................ 1,406,028
Current Law Mandatory:
BA ............................................................................ 1,075,820
OT ............................................................................ 1,067,358
1 The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019 does not provide for additional pro-
gram integrity funds beyond current law. This amount was previously pro-
vided under authority contained in H. Res. 293.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. LEE of California. Madam
Speaker, I move that the House do now
adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 8 o’clock and 21 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Tues-
day, September 10, 2019, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
f
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 1420, the
Energy Efficient Government Tech-
nology Act, would have no significant
effect on direct spending or revenues,
and therefore, the budgetary effects of
such bill are estimated as zero.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
1988. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Oxirane, 2-methyl-, Poly-
mer With Oxirane, Monoundecyl Ether,
Branched and Linear; Exemption from the
Requirement of a Tolerance [EPA-HQ-OPP-
2019-0093; FRL-9996-95] received August 23,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
1989. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Sedaxane; Pesticide Toler-
ances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0526; FRL-9998-22]
received August 23, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1990. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Emamectin Benzoate; Pes-
ticide Tolerances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0088;
FRL-9997-10] received August 23, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
1991. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Nitrapyrin; Pesticide Toler-
ances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0095; FRL-9996-85]
received August 23, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1992. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Buprofezin; Pesticide Toler-
ances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0161; FRL-9997-41]
received August 23, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1993. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Cali-
fornia; Imperial County Air Pollution Con-
trol District [EPA-R09-OAR-2019-0005; FRL-
9996-59-Region 9] received August 23, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
1994. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Georgia;
Update to Materials Incorporated by Ref-
erence [GA 2018; FRL-9997-86-Region 4] re-
ceived August 23, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1995. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Revisions; Cali-
fornia; Technical Amendments [EPA-R09-
OAR-2018-0133; FRL-9990-48-Region 9] re-
ceived August 23, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1996. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; AK:
Adoption Updates and Permitting Rule Revi-
sions [EPA-R10-OAR-2018-0809; FRL-9998-71-
Region 10] received August 23, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
1997. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; New
Mexico; Approval of Revised Statutes; Error
Correction [EPA-R06-OAR-2015-0850; FRL-
9998-05-Region 6] received August 15, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
1998. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Ohio;
Redesignation of the Columbus, Ohio Area to
Attainment of the 2015 Ozone Standard
[EPA-R05-OAR-2019-0239; FRL-9998-50-Region
5] received August 15, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:32 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE7.019 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7558 September 9, 2019
1999. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Approval of Air Quality Im-
plementation Plans; New Jersey; Determina-
tion of Attainment for the 1971 Sulfur Diox-
ide National Ambient Air Quality Standard;
Warren County Nonattainment Area [EPA-
R02-OAR-2019-0164; FRL-9998-58-Region 2] re-
ceived August 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2000. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Approval of California Air
Plan Revisions; Imperial County Air Pollu-
tion Control District; Stationary Source
Permits [EPA-R09-OAR-2019-0056; FRL-9996-
19-Region 9] received August 15, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
2001. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s direct final rule — Air Plan Approval;
New Mexico; Approval of Revised Statutes;
Error Correction [EPA-R06-OAR-2015-0850;
FRL-9997-80-Region 6] received August 15,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
2002. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; GE Honda Aero Engines Turbofan En-
gines [Docket No.: FAA-2019-0352; Product
Identifier 2019-NE-09-AD; Amendment 39-
19705; AD 2019-16-02] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received
August 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2003. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2018-1011; Product Identifier
2018-NM-131-AD; Amendment 39-19691; AD
2019-14-13] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received August
15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2004. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0527; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
112-AD; Amendment 39-19684; AD 2019-14-06]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received August 15, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2005. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Bombardier, Inc. Airplanes [Docket
No.: FAA-2019-0578; Product Identifier 2019-
NM-111-AD; Amendment 39-19697; AD 2019-15-
04] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received August 15, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2006. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0574; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
150-AD; Amendment 39-19688; AD 2019-14-10]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received August 15, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2007. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0251; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
057-AD; Amendment 39-19685; AD 2019-14-07]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received August 15, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2008. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0255; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
018-AD; Amendment 39-19687; AD 2019-14-09]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received August 15, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. DEFAZIO: Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure. H.R. 2726. A bill to
amend title 49, United States Code, to pro-
hibit smoking on Amtrak trains (Rept. 116–
199). Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. HASTINGS: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 548. A resolution providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 205) to
amend the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security
Act of 2006 to permanently extend the mora-
torium on leasing in certain areas of the
Gulf of Mexico; providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 1146) to amend Public Law
115–97 (commonly known as the Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act) to repeal the Arctic National Wild-
life Refuge oil and gas program, and for
other purposes; and providing for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 1941) to amend the
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to pro-
hibit the Secretary of the Interior including
in any leasing program certain planning
areas, and for other purposes (Rept. 116–200).
Referred to the House Calendar.
CONSENSUS CALENDAR
Under clause 7 of rule XV, the fol-
lowing motion was filed with the Clerk:
Motion No. 6, September 9, 2019 by Mr.
THOMPSON of California on H.R. 3589
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico (for herself, Mr. NEWHOUSE, Ms.
FINKENAUER, Mr. LATTA, Mr. LUJÁN,
and Mr. COLE):
H.R. 4243. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to improve obstetric care
in rural areas; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania:
H.R. 4244. A bill to provide for a pathway
for chemically synthesized insulin to be ap-
proved under an abbreviated new drug appli-
cation submitted under the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mrs. MCBATH (for herself and Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois):
H.R. 4245. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to reduce the complexity
and length of the Free Application for Fed-
eral Student Aid (FAFSA); to the Committee
on Education and Labor.
By Mrs. KIRKPATRICK:
H.R. 4246. A bill to amend the Commodity
Exchange Act to clarify the venue for judi-
cial review of Commission rules, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, and in addition to the Committee on
the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 4247. A bill to amend the Commodity
Exchange Act to eliminate the double-sided
confirmation requirement for swap data re-
positories; to the Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Mr. MI-
CHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
KELLY of Pennsylvania, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. RYAN, and Mr. MEUSER):
H.R. 4248. A bill to amend the Surface Min-
ing Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to
allow the Secretary of the Interior to dele-
gate certain emergency reclamation activi-
ties to the States and Tribes, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, and in addition to the Committee on
the Budget, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 4249. A bill to amend the Federal Cig-
arette Labeling and Advertising Act to ex-
tend the prohibition on electronic advertise-
ments of cigarettes and little cigars to elec-
tronic nicotine delivery systems; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. CRAIG:
H.R. 4250. A bill to amend the Commodity
Exchange Act to exempt certain charitable
organizations from regulation as commodity
pool operators, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Agriculture.
By Mrs. HAYES:
H.R. 4251. A bill to amend the Commodity
Exchange Act to provide greater protection
of proprietary information of other reg-
istered entities, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. HILL of Arkansas (for himself,
Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr. TURNER, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. COHEN, and Ms. SEWELL
of Alabama):
H.R. 4252. A bill to authorize the Attorney
General, in consultation with the Secretary
of Education, to establish a pilot program to
make grants to historically Black colleges
and universities to provide educational pro-
grams to offenders who have recently been,
or will soon be, released from incarceration,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor, and in addition to the
Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota:
H.R. 4253. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to allow a recipient of an
institutional aid grant to use funds under
such grant to establish, improve, or expand
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:28 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L09SE7.000 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7559
September 9, 2019
partnerships with child care providers; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York (for herself, Mr. FOSTER,
Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois,
Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. PAYNE, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. COHEN,
Ms. GABBARD, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, and Mr. RASKIN):
H.R. 4254. A bill to amend the Truth in
Lending Act to establish fair and trans-
parent practices related to the marketing
and provision of overdraft coverage programs
at depository institutions, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices.
By Mr. QUIGLEY:
H.R. 4255. A bill to prevent the illegal sale
of firearms, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida:
H.R. 4256. A bill to amend section 1951 of
title 18, United States Code (commonly
known as the Hobbs Act), and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia:
H.R. 4257. A bill to require the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission to establish an
Office of Minority and Women Inclusion, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Ag-
riculture.
By Mr. STANTON (for himself and Mr.
STEUBE):
H.R. 4258. A bill to authorize the Marshal
of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court
Police to protect the Justices, employees,
and official guests of the Supreme Court out-
side of the Supreme Court grounds, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Ms. WILD (for herself, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Mr. BACON, Ms. MOORE,
Mr. PAYNE, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
THOMPSON of California, Ms. BASS,
Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Mr.
TRONE, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. HASTINGS,
Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. TED LIEU of Cali-
fornia, Ms. DEAN, Mr. LAWSON of
Florida, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. HARD-
ER of California, Mr. SERRANO, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. RYAN,
Mr. PAPPAS, and Ms. PINGREE):
H.R. 4259. A bill to amend the Richard B.
Russell National School Lunch Act to pro-
vide categorical eligibility for free lunch and
breakfast for certain children in kinship
care, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
f
PRIVATE BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
Mr. CORREA introduced a bill (H.R. 4260)
for the relief of Gualterio Lazaro Santos
Santos; which was referred to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico:
H.R. 4243.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania:
H.R. 4244.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress enacts this bill pursuant to
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3—Commerce
Clause—of the United States Constitution.
By Mrs. MCBATH:
H.R. 4245.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3: Commerce
Power
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes.
By Mrs. KIRKPATRICK:
H.R. 4246.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 4247.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. I, sec. 8
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
H.R. 4248.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 (relating to
the power of Congress to regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian Tribes.)
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 4249.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. CRAIG:
H.R. 4250.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8.
By Mrs. HAYES:
H.R. 4251.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article One, Section Eight
By Mr. HILL of Arkansas:
H.R. 4252.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 1
By Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota:
H.R. 4253.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the US Constitution
By Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York:
H.R. 4254.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. QUIGLEY:
H.R. 4255.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida:
H.R. 4256.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia:
H.R. 4257.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. STANTON:
H.R. 4258.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S.C. Article I, Section 8
By Ms. WILD:
H.R. 4259.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 Clause I
By Mr. CORREA:
H.R. 4260.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
(1) The U.S. Constitution including Article
1, Section 8.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H. R. 40: Mr. LUJÁN.
H. R. 129: Mr. COLE.
H. R. 141: Ms. SHERRILL.
H. R. 175: Mr. MEADOWS.
H. R. 241: Mr. MEEKS.
H. R. 281: Ms. PRESSLEY and Mr.
FITZPATRICK.
H. R. 333: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. MCGOVERN, and Mr. HORSFORD.
H. R. 369: Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee.
H. R. 445: Mr. KHANNA.
H. R. 510: Ms. STEVENS, Mr. JOHNSON of
Louisiana, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mrs.
LESKO, Ms. UNDERWOOD, and Ms. GARCIA of
Texas.
H. R. 532: Ms. MOORE and Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia.
H. R. 553: Mr. NADLER and Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H. R. 597: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H. R. 647: Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. WILLIAMS.
H. R. 687: Ms. NORTON.
H. R. 717: Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H. R. 737: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H. R. 777: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H. R. 808: Mr. ARMSTRONG.
H. R. 832: Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee
and Mr. VAN DREW.
H. R. 838: Ms. DEAN and Mr. WILLIAMS.
H. R. 864: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H. R. 869: Mr. KHANNA.
H. R. 871: Mr. SHERMAN.
H. R. 877: Mr. COX of California.
H. R. 878: Mr. SUOZZI and Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi.
H. R. 939: Mr. DEUTCH and Mr. KHANNA.
H. R. 943: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee,
Mr. NEGUSE, Ms. MOORE, Mr. GARCÍA of Illi-
nois, Mrs. FLETCHER, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
COURTNEY, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. PRESSLEY,
and Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois.
H. R. 959: Mr. PHILLIPS, Ms. DELBENE, and
Mr. SPANO.
H. R. 960: Mr. PHILLIPS and Ms. LOFGREN.
H. R. 1019: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 1024: Mr. HASTINGS and Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 1034: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER and Mr.
BRINDISI.
H.R. 1042: Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 1055: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois and Mr.
HARDER of California.
H.R. 1114: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 1133: Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 1137: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 1139: Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. EVANS, and
Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 1154: Mr. YOUNG, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. EVANS, Mr. COSTA, Mr.
GRAVES of Missouri, Mr. JEFFRIES, and Mr.
UPTON.
H.R. 1157: Mr. CLINE and Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 1171: Ms. JACKSON LEE and Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 1185: Mr. CASTRO of Texas.
H.R. 1236: Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. TRONE,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. CASTRO
of Texas, and Mr. RUIZ.
H.R. 1277: Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 1289: Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:53 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L09SE7.100 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7560 September 9, 2019
H.R. 1298: Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 1305: Ms. ADAMS.
H.R. 1309: Mr. BEYER and Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 1321: Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 1337: Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
CARSON of Indiana, Mr. PHILLIPS, and Mr.
CUMMINGS.
H.R. 1380: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 1390: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 1400: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 1423: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico, Mr. COSTA, and Mrs. BUSTOS.
H.R. 1425: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 1444: Mr. TRONE, Mrs. LURIA, and Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 1529: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 1551: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 1553: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1611: Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 1641: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 1656: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 1694: Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 1745: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1776: Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr.
HARDER of California, Mr. LANGEVIN, Ms.
BASS, and Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 1820: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 1882: Ms. BASS, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan,
Mr. MEEKS, Mr. COX of California, Mr. LAR-
SEN of Washington, Mr. VELA, and Ms. HILL
of California.
H.R. 1885: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 1897: Mr. SARBANES.
H.R. 1903: Mr. MCGOVERN and Mr. EMMER.
H.R. 1943: Mr. LAWSON of Florida.
H.R. 1970: Mr. BERGMAN.
H.R. 1978: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 1980: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1982: Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr. HARDER
of California, and Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 2000: Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 2010: Mr. EMMER.
H.R. 2086: Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 2096: Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 2134: Ms. STEFANIK and Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 2135: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 2139: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 2146: Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Ms. JUDY
CHU of California, Mr. SUOZZI, and Mr.
HIMES.
H.R. 2164: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 2181: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 2186: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 2214: Mrs. MCBATH and Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 2218: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 2223: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mrs. WAT-
SON COLEMAN, and Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 2314: Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 2321: Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 2339: Mr. COX of California and Ms.
TLAIB.
H.R. 2350: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 2382: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 2426: Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr. LUJÁN,
Mr. VAN DREW, and Ms. JAYAPAL.
H.R. 2435: Mr. KILMER, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, and Mr. SIMPSON.
H.R. 2506: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 2509: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 2533: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 2571: Mr. STEUBE, Mr. OLSON, Mr.
PENCE, and Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana.
H.R. 2579: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 2602: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 2643: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 2667: Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 2674: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 2682: Mr. PETERSON.
H.R. 2708: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
and Ms. Sánchez.
H.R. 2710: Mr. REED.
H.R. 2711: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. CARBAJAL,
Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. GALLEGO, and Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 2728: Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 2731: Mr. NADLER, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS
of Illinois, Mr. HECK, Mr. KING of New York,
Ms. PORTER, Mr. UPTON, Mr. PETERS, and Mr.
HUIZENGA.
H.R. 2771: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 2774: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 2778: Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 2825: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 2852: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 2905: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 2975: Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 2978: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3000: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
H.R. 3036: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr.
SERRANO, Ms. NORTON, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr.
TRONE, and Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 3043: Mr. CARBAJAL.
H.R. 3076: Ms. JAYAPAL and Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 3077: Mr. WATKINS, Mr. BACON, Mr.
CURTIS, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Mr. FORTEN-
BERRY, and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 3082: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 3104: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI and Mr.
BALDERSON.
H.R. 3114: Mr. GOLDEN and Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 3115: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 3162: Mr. PHILLIPS and Mr. PENCE.
H.R. 3172: Mr. RYAN, Ms. NORTON, and Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 3192: Mr. HORSFORD.
H.R. 3193: Mr. TAKANO, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 3219: Mr. ROGERS of Alabama.
H.R. 3221: Mr. CASTRO of Texas.
H.R. 3228: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 3249: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 3285: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3296: Mrs. LEE of Nevada and Mr. KEN-
NEDY.
H.R. 3331: Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 3350: Mr. ARMSTRONG, Mr. CASE, Mr.
PHILLIPS, and Ms. TORRES SMALL of New
Mexico.
H.R. 3356: Mr. CISNEROS and Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 3378: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 3405: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 3442: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 3463: Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. EVANS, Ms.
UNDERWOOD, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. LANGEVIN,
Ms. BASS, and Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 3468: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 3495: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, Mr. RUSH, Ms. TORRES SMALL
of New Mexico, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
PHILLIPS, Mr. TRONE, Mrs. LESKO, Mr. SIRES,
Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr. ARMSTRONG,
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, Mr. BARR, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. STANTON, and
Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 3496: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 3497: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 3509: Mr. FOSTER and Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 3545: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr. JOHN-
SON of Georgia.
H.R. 3555: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD and Mr.
GALLEGO.
H.R. 3594: Mrs. LESKO and Mr. HICE of Geor-
gia.
H.R. 3598: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 3615: Mr. LIPINSKI and Mr. BROOKS of
Alabama.
H.R. 3623: Mr. CLEAVER and Mr. BLU-
MENAUER.
H.R. 3655: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 3657: Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. DIAZ-BALART,
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. HECK, and
Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 3663: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 3665: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 3668: Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 3689: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 3708: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 3712: Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 3717: Mr. HOLDING.
H.R. 3720: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 3732: Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 3738: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 3739: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 3751: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 3775: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 3798: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 3813: Mr. BABIN.
H.R. 3824: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY and Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 3851: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 3870: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, Ms. CLARKE of New York, and
Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 3873: Ms. HILL of California and Ms.
JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 3882: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 3915: Mr. MCKINLEY.
H.R. 3956: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 3961: Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 3972: Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 3973: Ms. PORTER and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 4018: Ms. DEAN, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr.
ARMSTRONG, and Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 4067: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 4098: Mr. GAETZ, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr.
MEADOWS, and Mr. CARTER of Texas.
H.R. 4105: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 4127: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 4141: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 4147: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 4194: Ms. ESHOO, Mr. MORELLE, and
Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 4203: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 4211: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 4232: Mr. NORMAN.
H.J.Res. 2: Ms. DEAN.
H.J.Res. 29: Mr. ZELDIN.
H.J.Res. 38: Mr. EVANS.
H.Con. Res. 50: Mr. WATKINS.
H.Con. Res. 52: Mr. YARMUTH, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. ROUDA, and Ms. ESHOO.
H.Con. Res. 54: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.Res. 23: Mr. POSEY and Ms. PORTER.
H.Res. 189: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington,
Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. PRICE of North Caro-
lina, Mr. HIMES, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr. EMMER,
Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. COSTA, Mr. TRONE, and Mr.
STIVERS.
H.Res. 217: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana and Mr.
GALLAGHER.
H.Res. 231: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.Res. 255: Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Mr. CURTIS, Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. CRAWFORD, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. FULCHER, Mr. HIGGINS of Lou-
isiana, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, and Mr. HAGEDORN.
H.Res. 300: Mr. TRONE.
H.Res. 323: Mrs. MURPHY.
H.Res. 326: Mr. LAWSON of Florida and Mr.
SHERMAN.
H.Res. 371: Ms. ESHOO.
H.Res. 391: Ms. NORTON.
H.Res. 395: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.Res. 493: Mr. LUETKEMEYER and Mr.
SPANO.
H.Res. 527: Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.Res. 529: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.Res. 538: Mr. RYAN, Mr. SCOTT of Vir-
ginia, and Mr. MCGOVERN.
f
DELETIONS OF SPONSORS FROM
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were deleted from public bills and reso-
lutions, as follows:
H.R. 1748: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:53 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE7.024 H09SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S5345
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2019 No. 143
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Almighty God, sovereign of our Na-
tion and Lord of our lives, thank You
for infusing us with the confidence that
You order our steps each day.
Give our lawmakers courage and a
strong resolve to glorify Your Name, as
they trust the unfolding of Your provi-
dence. As they remember what You
have already done to bless this Nation,
inspire them to march confidently to-
ward tomorrow’s difficulties with total
dependence on Your power. May they
recommit themselves each day to
faithfully fulfilling the awesome re-
sponsibility You have entrusted to
them. Lord, be their strength and
shield this day and always.
We pray in Your mighty Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The majority leader is recog-
nized.
f
TRIBUTE TO JOHNNY ISAKSON
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
welcome my colleagues back to the
Senate. I hope all of us took advantage
of the past weeks that we spent in our
home States and with our constituents.
Washington is where we come to work.
We come here to fight for our neigh-
bors and for the places we love and are
proud to hail from.
The American people know this is a
highly charged political moment. They
haven’t sent us here to stage pitched
battles or score political points. They
elected us to make a difference for
them and their families. We do that by
taking care of the people’s business and
by collaborating in good faith to com-
plete our work and attend to the press-
ing matters that are before us.
While we were spread out across the
country, we heard an unwelcome an-
nouncement from our dear friend and
colleague, the senior Senator from
Georgia. Senator JOHNNY ISAKSON has
determined that his health challenges
will lead him to conclude his distin-
guished 15-year Senate career at the
end of December, putting Georgians
first, like always.
His departure will be a significant
loss for the people of Georgia and for
the 99 of us here in this Chamber. Sen-
ator ISAKSON is a tireless legislator. In
particular, he is a dogged advocate for
our Nation’s veterans. But he is even
more than that. JOHNNY is universally
seen as one of the warmest, friendliest,
most respectful, and most collabo-
rative Members of this body. He has
strong views and solid principles, but
he knows that broad, often bipartisan
cooperation is the way to advance
those very goals.
f
BUSINESS BEFORE THE SENATE
Mr. MCCONNELL. I hope that as the
Senate tackles the important matters
before us in the weeks and months
ahead, we will not only make sure to
savor our last few months working
alongside this great friend and col-
league but also to embody his example
in our work. Here is what that work
will need to include:
Right off the bat this week, the Sen-
ate will begin working through a slate
of nominations to important Federal
offices. The American people deserve to
be governed by the government they
voted for, and every time we confirm
another one of the uncontroversial,
amply qualified public servants whom
President Trump has selected for these
executive branch posts, we fulfill a
constitutional responsibility and make
manifest the people’s decision.
Of course, in the days and weeks
ahead, another major duty before us
will be the appropriations process. Just
like last year, under the leadership of
Chairman SHELBY and Ranking Mem-
ber LEAHY, I am confident we can make
significant progress on regular appro-
priations this month and then pass an
interim continuing resolution to pre-
vent any funding lapse while that work
continues.
Let me say that again. A major focus
of the Senate this month will be mov-
ing forward as many of the regular ap-
propriations bills as possible and then
passing a temporary continuing resolu-
tion for the outstanding parts of the
government before the end of Sep-
tember.
We have the parameters in place,
thanks to the bipartisan funding agree-
ment President Trump signed last
month. Now it is time for the rubber to
meet the road and for the Senate to
pass appropriations bills this month.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BLUNT). Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:41 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE6.000 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5346 September 9, 2019
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Kelly Craft, of Kentucky, to
be Representative of the United States
of America to the Sessions of the Gen-
eral Assembly of the United Nations
during her tenure of service as Rep-
resentative of the United States of
America to the United Nations.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
President pro tempore.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
IOWA TOWN MEETINGS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, dur-
ing August, I continued my annual tra-
dition of holding at least one Q&A in
every one of Iowa’s 99 counties. I go to
Iowans where they work and live to
hear what is on their minds so that I
can better represent them in the Sen-
ate. No matter the setting, my citizens
of Iowa set the agenda.
On August 27, with a town meeting in
Spencer, IA, I completed the 39th con-
secutive year of my annual 99 county
meetings. I look forward to continuing
my dialogue with Iowans throughout
the rest of this year, just to emphasize
that I hold a lot more than just 99
meetings with my constituents every
year.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TRIBUTE TO DAYTON POLICE OFFICERS
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, I rise to
honor six brave Ohioans—Sergeant Wil-
liam C. Knight, Officers Brian Rolfes,
David Denlinger, Vincent Carter, Ryan
Nabel, and Jeremy Campbell.
Last month, on Sunday, August 4,
the people in my State woke up to dev-
astating news: A shooter had opened
fire overnight—at about 1 o’clock that
Sunday morning—in Dayton. In 31 sec-
onds, a shooter had fired 40 bullets. He
had taken the lives of 9 Ohioans and
had injured 27 more. This was another
senseless tragedy caused by gun vio-
lence. As awful as it was, it could have
been even worse had it not been for the
bravery and skill of the officers I just
mentioned.
While others ran from danger, these
men ran toward it. They stopped the
shooter within 31 or 32 seconds after
the first shot was fired. They saved,
certainly, dozens of lives as the shooter
was about to go into a very crowded
nightclub. Had they not gotten to him
in less than a minute, the shooter
would have entered the doorway he was
headed toward of the Dayton institu-
tion Ned Peppers, which was filled with
Ohioans who were out on a Saturday
night.
Dayton Police Chief Richard Biehl
said: ‘‘Had this individual made it
through the doorway of Ned Peppers
with that level of weaponry, there
would have been catastrophic injuries
and loss of life.’’ That didn’t happen be-
cause these dedicated public servants
did the job they signed up to do—to
protect the people they serve.
Over the past month, as we have
mourned those Ohioans we have lost,
we have also seen the incredible
strength and solidarity of the Dayton
community. People from all over the
city have come together to support the
families of the victims and to support
the law enforcement officers and offi-
cials who threw themselves in harm’s
way to protect their friends and neigh-
bors.
Chief Biehl reported that the Dayton
Police Department has received hun-
dreds of emails, social media messages,
and thank you cards—all from people
thanking them for what they have
done for this city.
Dayton has faced so many challenges
this year. Each time, these officers and
the entire department have risen to the
occasion. They kept the public safe
when a KKK group held a hate rally,
and they helped residents after dev-
astating tornados hit this summer.
Now they are dealing with this awful
gun violence and all kinds of tragedies
that have fallen on this community.
I thank my friend Mayor Whaley,
who is here in Washington today to
help honor these officers and who has
truly held this community together. I
think she put it best when she said
that Dayton has had, ‘‘as I like to term
it, one hell of a summer, and you all
have been on the front lines of it.’’
I met these officers at the Miami
Valley Hospital 3 days after the shoot-
ing. The President of the United States
was there to honor these officers and to
see the victims and some of the injured
Daytonians who were victims of the
shooting and to see their families.
I said to the President that the best
way he can honor these police officers
is to bring the Senate back into session
and pass universal background checks
as 93 percent of the American public
supports it and as Congress has already
passed it overwhelmingly. We could do
it in a day.
I thank Sergeant Knight, Officer
Rolfes, Officer Denlinger, Officer Car-
ter, Officer Nabel, Officer Campbell,
and all of the Dayton law enforcement
for responding far beyond the call of
duty in saving the lives of so many
people in the Miami Valley.
I thank their families, many of whom
are here today. We know how families
sacrifice alongside law enforcement
and servicemembers. Yet so often fami-
lies don’t get the recognition they de-
serve. To the officers and their fami-
lies, we are forever grateful.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
BACKGROUND CHECKS
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President,
today this Chamber, once referred to as
the greatest deliberative body, must
take action. We have people all over
the country who want to see action,
people who want to see change, people
who are crying out for their leaders in
Washington to do their jobs.
These days, the U.S. Senate has be-
come a place where legislation goes to
die and the important issues of the day
go ignored, in addition to inaction—
major, major issues, significant issues,
like climate change and infrastructure
and immigration reform.
Today I will focus on three things
that are right before us—three bills in
the gun legislation area that right now
are on the leader’s desk—and two other
areas, election protection and bringing
down the cost of prescription drugs,
where we could literally take action
immediately.
I focus on these because they all in-
volve bills that have passed the House,
and the Senate could literally act
today. I focus on these because, in all
three cases, the timing is urgent.
I am talking about inaction in the
wake of terrible tragedies in Dayton
and El Paso and in Midland-Odessa, all
in just the last month; inaction in pro-
tecting our elections and making it
easier for people to vote; inaction in re-
sponse to serious issues of healthcare
costs, particularly prescription drug
prices.
First, I will speak about gun safety.
Think about the courage—the incred-
ible courage—of the people who were in
Dayton and in El Paso and in Midland-
Odessa, of the mom who literally
shielded her baby from death as she
herself perished from gunshot wounds,
but she kept that baby alive. Or how
about the grandpa who died shielding
his wife and granddaughter or the off-
duty soldier who carried children away
to safety? All of that happened in that
store.
As we approach the anniversary of 9/
11, I think also about the first respond-
ers in all of these mass shootings.
Those in Dayton, OH, got there in 1
minute—1 minute—but, still, we lost
nine people in 30 seconds. But they
were there in 1 minute and saved so
many lives. That is courage.
That is the courage of ordinary peo-
ple doing extraordinary things, and I
believe in this place of extraordinary
power that their courage must be
matched. The courage must be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:41 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09SE6.001 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5347
September 9, 2019
matched to that mom, to that grandpa,
to that soldier, to those first respond-
ers. These are ordinary citizens who
stepped up and saved lives. It is the
least we can do to match their courage.
The American people can’t afford
more inaction. But over the past few
years, to me, it seems we have lost our
resolve.
Today, I implore my colleagues, I im-
plore the Republican leadership to find
the resolve once again and act with
courage just as those men and women
did in El Paso, in Dayton, in Midland
and Odessa and Gilroy and Parkland
and Newtown and Charleston and Or-
lando.
How about all of those families who
lose a loved one every single day to gun
violence in homes, to gun violence on
the streets? There are 1,300 children
who die from gunshot wounds each
year. That is a classroom of kids every
single week.
Yes, we are back today. Congress is
back. I believe we should have come
back sooner. We were in recess for
mere hours when the gunman in El
Paso claimed the lives of 22 people and
for only a few hours more when the
gunman in Dayton claimed 9 lives.
I was among those who immediately
called for the Senate to come back
from recess so that we could vote on
gun safety measures—gun safety meas-
ures that had passed the House of Rep-
resentatives with some Republican sup-
port.
I said that we should come back for
that vote back then on background
checks. By the way, 9 out of 10 Ameri-
cans support sensible background
checks; the majority of hunters sup-
port sensible background checks; the
majority of voters who voted for Presi-
dent Trump support sensible back-
ground checks.
I know the history here. As the lead
sponsor of the bill to prevent perpetra-
tors of domestic violence—perpetra-
tors, people who have been convicted of
serious domestic violence and stalk-
ing—from possessing a gun and as a
longtime supporter of universal back-
ground checks, as well as the assault
weapon ban and limits on magazines, I
was invited to the White House right
after Parkland, right after all of those
kids died in that school, and I thought:
Well, this is a moment when we can
act.
I was seated across from the Presi-
dent of the United States, and I had a
piece of paper that I saved, and I wrote
down with hash marks how many times
he said that we should pass the bill for
universal background checks and stop
that gun show loophole. Nine times he
said it—nine times.
I was seated next to the Vice Presi-
dent and across from the President. I
told the President that I come from a
proud hunting State and that when I
look at proposals like this, I say to my-
self: Do they hurt my Uncle Dick in
the deer stand? Do they do anything to
hurt our hunting tradition in our
State?
They don’t. That is why the vast ma-
jority of hunters support universal
background checks and a lot of these
other measures we talked about that
day in that conference room in the
White House. It was on TV, so people
can see it. There is a video of it. There
is evidence of it.
I thought it was a done deal. But
then what happened? The President,
the next day, met with the NRA, and
he folded. He folded, despite the fact
that on TV in front of the Nation, in
front of those kids, those surviving
kids from Parkland, in front of the
families of the kids who had died, he
made a promise that he didn’t keep.
That is the history I know and I have
lived.
But it doesn’t end there. I go back in
time. I go back to the saddest day in
the U.S. Senate for me. That was the
morning of the vote on background
checks. That was years before. That
was after the Sandy Hook shooting.
Those families were there, and I had
been working with some of the Sen-
ators who were leading that bill, and I
had to tell those parents that morning
who had lost their kids—their elemen-
tary school-age kids in that school—
that we didn’t have enough votes to
pass that bill.
I remember one of the moms said to
me: You know, I will never forget that
day. I will never forget the last time I
saw my son alive. He had severe au-
tism, so he really couldn’t speak. But
every morning he would point at the
picture of the school aide, whom he
loved so much, who would never leave
his side. He loved her, and he would
point at her picture on our refrig-
erator.
That is what happened that last day
she saw him alive. Then he went to
school, and then, just a few hours later,
she was waiting in that firehouse with
all of those parents. One by one, those
children came into that firehouse, and
pretty soon, the parents who were left
knew that they would never see their
babies again.
As she was sobbing in that firehouse,
she had this fleeting moment where she
thought of that school aide, and she
knew at that moment that the school
aide would never leave the side of her
little boy.
When they found them both, shot to
death, that school aide had her arms
around that little boy.
That mom was in my office that
morning, and she had the courage to
advocate for something she knew
wouldn’t have saved her kid because of
the particular circumstances of how
that guy got that gun. But what she
knew about the background checks was
that they would save more lives than a
lot of these other measures. Why? Be-
cause the States that have them have
reduced rates of domestic homicide.
Yes, and they help with suicide as well.
It probably would have helped in
Midland-Odessa. We don’t know all of
the facts, but what we do know is that
one time that guy failed a background
check, and then somehow he was able
to get a gun.
Those parents had the courage to do
that. Then, a few hours later, this
place didn’t have the courage to pass
that bill.
That is the history I have had with
this issue, but it goes back even fur-
ther. It goes back to when I was a pros-
ecutor and we had cases all the time of
everyday gun violence. We had officers
killed; we had children killed; we had
women killed in their homes.
But the case I most remember actu-
ally happened after I left that job, and
I was in the Senate, and we had a
shooting of a police officer in a small
town. He was just doing his job. He
showed up for a domestic violence call,
which maybe sounds regular to a lot of
people but not to officers because they
know how dangerous those calls are.
It was a young woman, the victim of
domestic violence, 17. The guy was in
the house, and the officer went to the
door, just doing his job. He opened the
door, and the guy shot him in the head.
He was wearing a bulletproof vest, but
it didn’t protect him.
The widow told me—because I was
there for that funeral—the last time
they had been in that church was for
the Nativity play that the kids were in.
After Christmas, the next time they
were in that church, she was walking—
a widow—down that aisle with her lit-
tle children, with a little toddler in her
arms in a blue dress covered with stars.
That is gun violence. It is not just
about one family; it is not just about
one victim; it is not even just about
that police officer and that family who
will never be the same. It is about our
entire community. That is my history
with this issue.
So when I come back here and I
think of the courage of all of those peo-
ple and all of those survivors and I
think about those mass shootings and
how, one by one, if we had passed these
sensible bills, we could have prevented
some of this from happening, I don’t
know what our excuse is anymore.
The leader on the Republican side
said that ‘‘if the President took a posi-
tion on a bill so that we knew we would
actually be making a law and not just
having serial votes, I would be happy
to put it on the floor.’’
Then the President said: ‘‘Congress is
going to be reporting back to me with
ideas.’’
The time for ideas is done. The ideas
passed in the House of Representa-
tives—not all of the ideas that I would
like put into law, but some really good
things got passed that would prevent a
lot of violence, including the back-
ground checks, including closing the
Charleston loophole, when that White
nationalist went into that church and
gunned down those parishioners only
because a background check hadn’t
been completed. It just gives a few
more days—that is what that bill
does—so police officers can do their job
and complete the background checks.
How about my bill, which is a bill
that is sitting on Leader MCCONNELL’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:41 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09SE6.003 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5348 September 9, 2019
desk? It closes the boyfriend loophole.
What is the status of the law right
now? Well, if you get convicted of a se-
rious offense of domestic violence
against your husband or wife—most of
the time it is wives—or against some-
one who lives in your house, then you
can’t go out and get an AK–47. You
can’t go out and get a gun. That is the
law right now.
But if you get convicted of the same
crime against a boyfriend or a
girlfriend—usually a girlfriend—you
could go out and get that gun.
We have had hearing after hearing
about this bill. We have had hearings
because it is so sensible to close that
loophole. Why? Because half of those
domestic homicides involve girlfriends.
I remember the one we had a few
years ago. We heard from the sheriff
from Racine County in Wisconsin. He
described himself as a conservative. He
said this:
Dangerous boyfriends can be just as scary
as dangerous husbands. They hit just as hard
and they fire their guns with the same dead-
ly force.
That bill is in the Violence Against
Women Act right now and is sitting on
Leader MCCONNELL’s desk. That bill
passed with 33 Republican votes in the
House of Representatives. There is ab-
solutely no reason we should stop a
vote on the entire Violence Against
Women Act simply because it includes
this commonsense provision.
Those are the three bills right now,
soon to be joined by a bill on limits on
magazines. Why that bill? Because in
30 seconds, nine innocent people were
killed in Dayton, OH. The cops did ev-
erything they possibly could. They
were there in 1 minute, and still nine
people died.
Those are the bills—background
checks and closing the loopholes—so
the cops have time to simply finish
their vetting. Why would you want to
cut off their days at 3? Third, closing
the boyfriend loophole to help in cases
of stalking and domestic violence, and
fourth, magazines. These are common-
sense bills. Would I like to do more
with the assault weapon ban? Yes, I
would. But right now, we could get
these done.
What do we hear instead? We hear
this: The President took a position on
a bill, so then we can wait to see if we
can have serial votes, and then we put
it on the floor.
The President is saying: Congress is
going to report back to me with ideas.
This is a dangerous game of whack-a-
mole that has to stop. People are dying
while leaders are pointing fingers. We
could point our fingers and vote yes or
no, and we could do that today. We ask
that those bills be called up imme-
diately.
But it doesn’t end there. There are
other very important bills we should be
voting on right now.
Election security. We know a foreign
country invaded our election. We know
that because we heard it from Presi-
dent Trump’s top intelligence officials.
In fact, Dan Coats, the Director of In-
telligence back then, said that they
were getting bolder. We know that. We
know what happened. We know they
did it in multiple ways. They did it by
trying to hack into elections and elec-
tion equipment in all 50 States. We
found that out. In Illinois, they got as
close as the voter files.
We also know they tried to do it with
social media, and there, they were
more successful. They ran a bunch of
ads—paid for them in rubles—to try to
suppress the vote. I will never forget
the one shown at our Judiciary hear-
ing, paid for in rubles. It was a
Facebook ad that went on African-
Americans’ Facebook pages in swing
districts. It was a picture of a woman—
an innocent woman; they had just
taken the face of someone from Chi-
cago—and it said: Why wait in line to
vote for Hillary? You can text your
vote. And they gave a number, some-
thing like 86513. That is illegal. That is
a crime. If we had known about that ad
and found the perpetrators, they would
have gone to jail. But that kind of ac-
tivity by a foreign country was allowed
to run rampant, and when the Presi-
dent was asked about it at the G20,
standing with Vladimir Putin, he made
a joke about it, looked at Vladimir
Putin, and they laughed.
Do you know what I thought? I
thought to myself, hundreds of thou-
sands of Americans have lost their
lives on the battlefield fighting for de-
mocracy in our own country and
around the world. I thought of the four
little innocent girls in a church in Bir-
mingham who lost their lives in the
fight for civil rights, in the fight for
democracy, in the fight to vote. And he
made a joke about it. This isn’t a joke.
We have an opportunity. We have
several bills on this that I am leading,
to push for backup paper ballots in the
remaining States that don’t have them
and to push for funding for audits and
funding to get the right election equip-
ment.
This isn’t a joke. It doesn’t matter if
you are a Republican or a Democrat or
an Independent; this is about pro-
tecting our democracy from the inva-
sion of a foreign country. That is why
our Founding Fathers started this
country—because they wanted to be
independent and didn’t want to have
foreign influence. It is what we fought
for in war after war—protecting free-
dom and democracy.
This is the new ground for invasions.
They didn’t do it with missiles. They
didn’t do it with tanks. They are doing
it with computers, and it is called
cyber warfare. We have to be as sophis-
ticated in our country as they are when
they try to invade it.
When we tried to call up one of these
bills—and Senator BLUNT had nicely
called that hearing in the Rules Com-
mittee, of which I am ranking mem-
ber—we got gut-punched—Senator
LANKFORD and I and the other authors
of the bill, Senator BURR, head of the
Intelligence Committee, Senator WAR-
NER, Senator HARRIS, Senator GRA-
HAM—because that got stopped by the
White House—calls were made—and by
the leader. It is time to bring back this
bill or pass one of the many versions
that are out there.
The last area I am going to bring
up—and there are many other things. I
mentioned climate change and immi-
gration reform, but the reason I am fo-
cusing on these things—gun safety for
the obvious reason, as well as election
security and prescription drugs—is be-
cause these are bills that have passed
the House of Representatives. They are
something we could do right now.
What about prescription drugs? It
feels like years ago now, but it was ac-
tually just last January when I went to
the State of the Union with my guest
Nicole Smith-Holt. Nicole’s son Alec
was 26 years old, a restaurant manager
in the suburbs of Minneapolis-St. Paul,
and he had aged off his parents’ insur-
ance. Three days short of his payday,
this hard-working kid—a pretty severe
diabetic—wasn’t able to afford his insu-
lin, so he did what so many diabetics
are doing right now because of the in-
credible cost of insulin: He started ra-
tioning it. He saved it. He took less
than he was supposed to take.
I have talked to seniors who literally
keep the injectors with those precious
drops of insulin so they can use them
the next day. When Alec tried it, trag-
ically, it didn’t work. He died. This
should never happen in the United
States of America, not with as simple a
drug as insulin, which has been around
for nearly a century.
I brought his mom with me to the
State of the Union. She was sitting
right up there looking down at the
President while he claimed—of course
many times—that he is going to do
something about the prices of pharma-
ceuticals.
I think those who are blocking and
slow-walking bipartisan legislation to
reduce the cost of prescription drugs
should give Nicole a call. She is smart,
she is pretty straightforward, and she
is a nice person. Listen to her story.
Healthcare is one-sixth of our econ-
omy, and total drug spending accounts
for over 15 percent of our Nation’s
healthcare costs, from consumers to
hospitals and nursing homes.
Between 2012 and 2016, the price of
brand-name prescription drugs in-
creased 110 percent. If we don’t act
now, that number will keep increasing
as the profit margins for Big Pharma
increase hand over fist. They have two
lobbyists for every Member. For every
desk in the Senate, pharma has two
lobbyists. That is what Nicole looked
down on when she saw the State of the
Union. That number also applies to the
House of Representatives, where we
were that night.
There are solutions on the table. I
think what would make the biggest dif-
ference, because it involves so many
people, would be to pass my bill that I
have led for years that would harness
the negotiating power of 43 million sen-
iors and allow Medicare to negotiate to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:01 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09SE6.004 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5349
September 9, 2019
bring drug prices down. The VA does it.
Medicaid does it. They have much less
expensive drug prices because negotia-
tion is allowed. I figure, with the power
of 43 million seniors, we could get pret-
ty good deals—43 million seniors—done
through Medicare. But right now, it is
locked in.
Why would it help people who are not
at the age to be on Medicare? It helps
you because it is the biggest block of
drug prices, and once it starts going
down for Medicare, it will start going
down for everyone.
We can also pass my bill that I
worked on for years with Senator
GRASSLEY to stop big, brand-name
companies from paying off other drug
manufacturers to keep less expensive
products off the market.
Let’s think of what that means. What
that means is pharma has a drug. A lot
of times, they have a monopoly. Then
someone comes along with another
version of it that is less expensive.
That would be great for us, especially
when there are three or four competi-
tive drugs. You always see those prices
go down. Do you know what they do?
They actually pay the generics to keep
the product off the market. The big
companies then have a monopoly. The
new companies bringing the drug in,
the generic, are fine; they get the
money from Big Pharma. The only
ones who get the short end of the stick
are us, the consumers of this country.
That is why Senator GRASSLEY and I
have worked across the aisle, and it is
time to get that bill passed.
The third one I would suggest is a
bill I first introduced with Senator
McCain—whom we all miss very
much—that would allow Americans to
bring in less expensive drugs from Can-
ada and other countries as well. We
know drug prices in Canada are so
much less expensive than they are in
the United States. Some States, like
Maine, have tried to do this on their
own, but they said: No; you have to
have a Federal law to make this really
work. Individuals have tried to do it.
Bus tours of seniors go up there. We
had bipartisan support for this in Min-
nesota—former Governor Pawlenty
supported changing this bill—but we
couldn’t do it as a State. It really has
to be done at the Federal level.
I am also pleased that Senator
GRASSLEY has now stepped into Sen-
ator McCain’s shoes and is carrying
this bill for me. He is the chair of the
Senate Finance Committee. There is no
reason we shouldn’t be able to call this
bill up for a vote.
In conclusion, I started this speech
by questioning whether this Chamber
is even capable of action on big things
anymore. I will end by asking a ques-
tion that should be simple: Will the
Senate respond to the needs of the
American people?
When Americans are shot in cold
blood, their bodies littered on the floor
of a Walmart, will we respond to their
needs? Will we respond to their fami-
lies? When their votes are threatened
by attacks from a foreign country, will
we respond to the citizens of this coun-
try? Will we respond when we know
drug prices have gone completely out
of control and we uniquely could do
something about it?
Today, what this Chamber needs are
leaders. Leaders don’t hesitate. They
don’t drag their feet or put politics
over country. They don’t block or ob-
struct progress. If my colleagues don’t
want to find common ground, at least
we could show some common sense.
It is time to live up to the promise of
this esteemed body. Inaction won’t do.
The American people can’t afford inac-
tion in the wake of unprecedented at-
tacks on our elections and our democ-
racy. They can’t afford inaction when
people are actually dying because they
can’t afford common prescription
drugs. They can’t afford inaction when
we have people being slaughtered on
our streets, going to a festival in Cali-
fornia, out on a weekend night with
friends, going to a movie theater, or
going shopping for school supplies.
Historically, this Chamber has done
great things. It is one of the reasons all
of us who got elected to this office de-
cided to do it. Our predecessors fought
for and passed the Civil Rights Act of
1964 in the U.S. Senate. This place ex-
panded voting rights the following
year. This place helped provide a safety
net for families, seniors, and kids
across the country by passing Medicare
and Medicaid. Guess what. When those
things were passed, they weren’t to-
tally popular at the time, but now they
are because they did the right thing.
They were leaders. They didn’t wait.
They didn’t hesitate. They led. We can
and should come together and do great
things now. That is the America we
love. That is the America we know.
That is the America we can be again.
I ask that these commonsense meas-
ures come up for a vote.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
ERNST). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the rol1.
Mr. SCHUMER. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the order for the quorum call
be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
BUSINESS BEFORE THE SENATE
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, let
me first welcome my colleagues back
from the August State work period. As
usual, it was an opportunity to travel
in our States and meet with constitu-
ents and to hear from them about the
issues that matter most in their lives.
These are some of the things I heard:
Middle-class families are struggling
with costs that keep going up while
wages barely budge. Recent college
graduates are saddled with crippling
college debt and are worried about
their future and their ability to buy a
home and do the things they want for
their children. Families and seniors are
worried about rising healthcare costs,
particularly prescription drugs. And
voters asked if we are doing enough to
keep our elections safe from foreign in-
terference.
I spent time talking with educators
in Upstate New York about teacher
shortages, with farmers about the fu-
ture of agriculture production, with
homeowners about improving flood in-
surance policies, and with middle-class
families about keeping more of their
earnings in their pockets after the Re-
publicans repealed the State and local
tax deduction. I heard from New York-
ers in every corner of my State, and
the overwhelming consensus was that
Washington has work to do and has to
do more to shore up the middle class
and those struggling to get there.
Typically, with Congress out of ses-
sion, the President can spend the
month of August highlighting issues
and building support for laws, initia-
tives, and programs to help working
Americans—but not this President, not
President Trump. As we all could have
predicted, he spent the month of Au-
gust sowing discord and division at
home, comforting our adversaries and
alienating our allies abroad, and
spreading recrimination and self-ag-
grandizement on Twitter.
Twenty years ago, if you read what
the President had done this August,
you would say that is fiction. Unfortu-
nately, it is true. Although we have be-
come a bit inured to the President’s
volatility, it is hard to recall a Presi-
dent having a more destructive or bi-
zarre summer.
On the world stage, President Trump
canceled a planned trip to Denmark be-
cause they refused to consider selling
us Greenland. He released a reportedly
classified satellite image on Twitter
and suggested inviting Putin to return
to the G7, hoping, of course, that he
could host the next one at, of all
places, his own private resort in Flor-
ida.
Here at home, the President called
the Chairman of the Federal Reserve
an enemy, continued to attack the
FBI, again falsely claimed he won the
popular vote, and called Jews who
voted for Democrats disloyal.
On the issue of policy, the President
began the month vacillating wildly on
support for gun safety measures, de-
spite three mass shootings, and ended
the summer by diverting funds in-
tended for our Nation’s defense and for
our soldiers and their families and tak-
ing that money away from them for
the construction of a border wall that
we all know he promised Mexico would
pay for.
Of course, we have now spent the past
week and a half watching the President
desperately trying to justify—some-
times with a Sharpie—his warning that
the State of Alabama lay in Hurricane
Dorian’s destructive path—what a cir-
cus.
This is America. We are so proud of
this country. We can’t be proud of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:41 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09SE6.005 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5350 September 9, 2019
President’s actions in the last month—
no one can, no matter what your poli-
tics.
I say to President Trump: There are
real issues facing real Americans, and
it is our job as their elected representa-
tives—whether we be in the executive
branch or the legislative branch,
whether we be Democrats, Independ-
ents, or Republicans—to do something
to help them, but this President seems
uninterested or maybe simply incapa-
ble.
As we return to work in Washington,
let us aim for progress on the issues
President Trump ignored during his
strange, lost summer: gun safety, elec-
tion security, healthcare, infrastruc-
ture, making progress on funding the
government in order to avoid another
government shutdown that the Presi-
dent caused and had to back off from
last time.
That is the people’s business. Even if
the President isn’t interested in it, it is
our job to be. Let’s roll up our sleeves
and get to work, and sometimes we
have to ignore the President’s shenani-
gans.
One issue of particular importance
looms on this upcoming Senate work
period, and that is gun safety. In the
month of August, more than 50 Ameri-
cans were killed in mass shootings, the
latest barrage in the litany of mass
shootings that have become all too
routine in our country, to say nothing
of the American lives lost in everyday
gun violence in our communities.
It is on the minds of the American
people. I was at the airport, and some-
one I didn’t know grabbed my arm and
said: Senator, do something about gun
violence. I lost my nephew to gun vio-
lence last year.
It is on so many people’s minds. That
is why our first order of business in the
Senate should be to take action on
H.R. 8, the House-passed Bipartisan
Background Checks Act. We must grap-
ple with the stark reality that gun vio-
lence is becoming an all-too-routine
occurrence and that we in Congress
have both the ability and responsi-
bility to do something about it.
H.R. 8 is the most commonsense way
for the Senate to save American lives.
It is bipartisan. It has already passed
the House. As a matter of policy, it is
absolutely necessary to close the loop-
holes in our background check system
in order to make other gun laws effec-
tive. We can and should pass a very
strong red flag law, but what good
would a red flag law do if someone were
adjudicated, unable to have a gun, and
he could go online and get that gun
with no check at all? If you don’t have
background checks, bad people will get
guns—felons, spousal abusers, those
mentally ill, and people who get red
flags. So it is critical that we pass a
universal background check law and
close the loopholes and that we do ev-
erything we can to prevent guns from
falling into the wrong hands in the
first place. Background checks must be
the base, the foundation we start from,
when we talk about gun safety legisla-
tion.
Just look at the case of the shooter
in Odessa, TX, who reportedly failed a
background check in 2014 but was able
to purchase a firearm through a pri-
vate sale with no background check.
This is one of the loopholes that the
Bipartisan Background Checks Act
would close.
These loopholes were never in-
tended—I was the author of the Brady
bill back in 1994, when I was a House
Member and the chair of the Crime
Subcommittee. I am proud of it. It
saved tens of thousands of lives. Back
then, there was no internet. When
some of the gun advocates here said
‘‘Well, exempt gun show loopholes,’’
gun shows were simply a place to show
antique-type guns, like your 1938 Der-
ringer. Now, of course, they have be-
come the huge loopholes that felons
and other people who shouldn’t have
guns seek to use to get guns. We have
to close these loopholes. It is not doing
anything more to take away the rights
of legitimate American citizens who
want to bear arms—something I believe
in—than it was when it passed. It is
just closing loopholes as time has
evolved.
There are two people in Washington
who would make this legislation pass,
which would greatly reduce gun vio-
lence: Leader MCCONNELL and Presi-
dent Trump. Leader MCCONNELL has
the power to make sure this legislation
passes this body or to make sure that
it doesn’t pass. It is in their hands.
The Republican leader determines
the Senate’s business. After the shoot-
ings in El Paso and Dayton, we de-
manded that the leader call the Senate
back into session so that we could re-
spond to the crisis. He refused. Maybe
he hoped the scenes of violence would
fade from the minds of the public, and
the issue would fizzle out. That cer-
tainly has not happened, and the
Democrats will not let it happen. Un-
fortunately, the increased frequency in
mass shootings will not let it happen
either.
As Democrats return to Washington,
we carry with us the frustration of
Americans who demand action but
have seen far too little. These are de-
mands of Democrats and Republicans,
people northeast, south, and west, men
and women, and people from urban
areas, suburban areas, and rural areas.
With their importuning in mind, we
will make sure the issue of gun safety
remains front and center for these next
3 weeks and beyond, until meaningful
change is achieved.
By contrast, Leader MCCONNELL did
not even mention gun violence in his
opening remarks today, after prom-
ising that we would have a debate in
the Senate when we returned. We await
word from the leader when that debate
might take place. One thing we do
know is that Leader MCCONNELL has
said that the question of background
checks will come down to President
Trump. ‘‘If the president took a posi-
tion on a bill,’’ Leader MCCONNELL
said, ‘‘I’d be happy to put it on the
floor.’’ That is what he said. Those are
his words.
If that is the case, the President has
a historic opportunity to save lives by
signaling his support for the House-
passed background checks bill. So far,
he has been all over the lot.
The President told me he is going to
get his ‘‘strongest possible bill’’ but
has not committed to what he might
support and then, in future days,
seemed to have backed off that state-
ment. That is why Speaker PELOSI and
I sent President Trump a letter today,
urging him to support H.R. 8, the uni-
versal background checks bill, to make
his position public.
President Trump can lead his party
to do something that the NRA has long
prevented Republicans from doing by
providing these Republicans the cover
of a Republican President’s support.
President Trump, please read our let-
ter. Support the bipartisan universal
background checks bill. It is common
sense. It is enormously popular with
the public—93 percent—even popular
with Republicans and gun owners, and
above all, would save American lives.
Maybe that man at the airport—I
don’t know his name or where he was
from—would not have to come up to
me and tell me his nephew died of gun
violence if we had passed some of these
laws. The time to act is now, before
more lives are lost. The pressure is on
President Trump and Leader MCCON-
NELL to act.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
AUGUST RECAP
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
came to the floor, and I heard the
Democratic leader talking, obviously,
about some terrible incidents that oc-
curred in El Paso, Dayton, and in Odes-
sa.
Since we were last in session, we
have had two shootings in Texas, one
in El Paso and one in Odessa. I confess
that these are terrible tragedies that
cause us to first ask the question
‘‘Why’’ and then cause us to ask the
question ‘‘What’’: What can and what
should we do to try to stop incidents
like these in the future?
I will remind the Democratic leader
that we actually have a great template
for bipartisan support for gun safety
legislation, which is the bill we sent to
the President last year called Fix
NICS—NICS being the National Instant
Criminal Background Check System
that the FBI operates.
For example, if you were convicted of
a felony or dishonorably discharged
from the military or you were subject
to a protective order or you had been
committed as a result of a mental
health crisis, under existing law, all of
these prohibit you from purchasing or
possessing a firearm. But if the back-
ground check system doesn’t work, it
doesn’t really count for much.
I am proud of the fact that we came
together on a bipartisan basis and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:41 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09SE6.007 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5351
September 9, 2019
passed this Fix NICS legislation by
overwhelming margins. Anybody who
is suggesting that we simply haven’t
done anything has a faulty memory, at
the very minimum.
I would also add that we have passed
legislation that would enhance school
safety. One of the problems is that
these cowards who commit these ter-
rible acts don’t go shoot up police sta-
tions; they go to the soft targets, like
the schools. No parent should send
their child to school wondering wheth-
er they are going to be safe from at-
tacks like those we have seen occur in
places like the Santa Fe school district
in Texas, so we passed bipartisan legis-
lation to deal with that as best we
could.
We also recognize that many of the
people who commit these acts are a
danger to themselves and others be-
cause of a mental health crisis. In the
21st Century Cures Act—a broad, bipar-
tisan bill—we passed legislation that
provides for piloting of assisted out-
patient treatment. The reason that is
so important is, if you are dealing with
an adult—an adult child, an adult
spouse, obviously, or a parent—there is
very little you can do to make them
follow their doctors’ orders or get the
kind of treatment they need to take
their medication. But as a result of as-
sisted outpatient treatment orders, a
family member or law enforcement or
mental health professional can petition
the court for a court order requiring
people to comply with their doctors’
orders to show up for their appoint-
ments and to take their medication.
They have reaped tremendous benefits
around the country, protecting people
from themselves when they are in a
mental health crisis and protecting
other people from potential acts of vio-
lence that they might commit. It is not
true that people who are mentally ill
are somehow more prone to violence,
but, certainly, when they lose control
of themselves—and when they are in a
mental health crisis, they do—they can
be a danger to themselves and others.
So this assisted outpatient treatment
pilot program that we pioneered in the
21st Century Cures Act, I think, pro-
vides another tool.
Then we provided law enforcement
with additional training. That is where
the active shooter training came from.
It was actually pioneered in San
Marcos, TX, at Texas State University,
where they train law enforcement not
to sit on the perimeter while the shoot-
ing goes on inside a building but to at-
tack the shooters where they are.
Also, we went one step further to
make sure not only that we can stop
the shooter but also that we can actu-
ally save lives and keep people from
bleeding to death by training emer-
gency medical personnel to follow the
police into an active shooting scene to
save lives.
Part of the problem with discussing
this topic is that there is a lot of my-
thology out there. I heard my friend
the Democratic leader say: If we had
just passed another background check
system, maybe Dayton or El Paso
would not have happened. Well, both of
those shooters passed a background
check. Is he suggesting we ought to
pass a law just to pretend that we are
doing something, but it would actually
not have a positive impact on saving
lives?
That is not what we did in the Fix
NICS bill. As you may recall, the par-
ticular shooter there was disqualified
from purchasing firearms, but the Air
Force had not uploaded his felony con-
viction for domestic violence into the
background check system. So when he
went in to buy a firearm, it didn’t
catch him. He was able to lie and then
buy.
I am proud to say that as a result of
this bipartisan legislation we passed,
there has been a 400-percent increase in
the Federal Government providing ad-
ditional background check information
for the National Instant Criminal
Background Check—the NICS—Sys-
tem.
I think it is safe to say, as a result of
the bipartisan legislation we passed,
working together, that lives will be
saved. That is what we ought to be
about, not about show boats or polit-
ical posturing. We ought to be about
solving the problem.
Let’s get our facts right first. The
Democratic leader mentioned Odessa.
It is true that the shooter in Odessa did
have a mental health commitment, and
he tried to buy a gun through tradi-
tional means. He failed a background
check, so he wasn’t successful. While
the details are still being investigated,
it looks as though he purchased the
firearm from an unlicensed firearm
dealer, which is a crime. If the dealer
sold the firearm to the shooter know-
ing that he was disqualified from pur-
chasing or buying a firearm, that
would be another crime. So trying to
suggest that some sort of additional
background check would have solved
that problem when what the dealer did
and what the purchaser did were al-
ready illegal, I just don’t think holds
up.
I look forward to continued discus-
sion and debate on this topic. It was on
the minds of an awful lot of people as
I traveled across my State of Texas
this August—as we all did during the
August work period.
I always benefit from going back
home and getting refreshed by the
thoughts, the ideas, and the aspira-
tions of real people instead of living
here inside this fantasyland known as
Washington, DC. I always tell people
that Washington is a fascinating place
to visit. It is like Disneyland, but just
remember one thing: It is not real.
What is real are the people we rep-
resent back home and what the labora-
tories of democracy produce, which are
the States, including the great State of
Texas.
As I travel back home, I also enjoy
sharing updates about what we have
been working on here in Washington
and seeing how legislation we have
passed can actually make a difference
back home.
One example is a program authorized
by a bill that I introduced called
Project Safe Neighborhoods, which is
now the law of the land. It is a bill I in-
troduced, which is now the law.
I invited Attorney General Barr to
come to Dallas, TX, to hear how this
initiative has already begun driving
down crime rates in a couple of our
communities in Dallas. This program
partners with local, State, and Federal
law enforcement officials, together
with Federal prosecutors, to target vio-
lent offenders—people who have no
legal right to possess a firearm and
who use firearms routinely—and en-
gage with the community and, thus,
help create safer neighborhoods.
It is already having a positive impact
in communities across my State, and I
am eager to see the long-term benefits
of this incredible program.
In Austin, I visited the University of
Texas during the month of August and
met with some student veterans who
are reaping the benefits of a bill we
passed this last summer. It is called
the Veteran STEM Scholarship Im-
provement Act. STEM stands for
science, technology, engineering,
math. The Veteran STEM Scholarship
Improvement Act made a seemingly
small change to an existing program,
which provides extended GI bill eligi-
bility for student veterans pursuing
STEM degrees.
Because we made a technical but im-
portant change, more students are able
to continue their education with sig-
nificantly less financial stress.
President Fenves of the University of
Texas system said that instead of just
three courses that veterans could qual-
ify for using their GI bill, they can now
qualify for, I think he said, 25. It may
have been 28. There are multiples of
what they can qualify for under exist-
ing law.
So this small change will make a big
difference. I enjoyed hearing about
their career goals from the students
who are using these GI bill benefits,
and I look forward to seeing all they
will accomplish.
In addition to those meetings and
those visits, I attended a ribbon-cut-
ting at a brandnew VA clinic in San
Angelo, TX. I spoke to survivors of sex-
ual assault in Grapevine about the
need to pass the Debbie Smith Act to
reauthorize the money we appropriate
to help test backlog rape kits. I was
able to join my friend Congressman
HENRY CUELLAR from Laredo, TX, to
discuss the future of the USMCA, the
U.S.-Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement,
the successor to NAFTA.
So while it was a busy and productive
work period, sadly, it was also marked
by a number of heartbreaking moments
that I alluded to a moment ago. On the
morning of August 3, a gunman
stormed into a Walmart in El Paso,
TX, killing 22 innocent people and
wounding two dozen others. It became
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:41 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09SE6.009 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5352 September 9, 2019
the deadliest mass shooting in the
United States this year.
In a community as tight-knit as El
Paso, the devastation was immeas-
urable, and I would note that the
shooter traveled from another part of
the State to El Paso. He was not from
El Paso. The heartbreaking confusion
quickly turned into rage when we
learned that the shooter was a White
supremacist whose crime could only be
described as domestic terrorism.
The day after the shooting, I visited
El Paso and met with several of the
victims, as well as the law enforcement
officers responding to the tragedy.
Members of the community created a
memorial to honor those who lost their
lives, and on that first day, it was rel-
atively small, about 4 feet wide.
By the time I returned to El Paso
with President Trump and the First
Lady, 3 days later, this 4-foot-wide me-
morial had grown to hundreds of feet
wide. The outpouring by the commu-
nity was overwhelming.
In the face of tragedy and unthink-
able grief, the strength and support of
the entire community from that me-
morial to the long line of folks waiting
to donate blood, to the donations to
help the victims was truly remarkable.
As I also indicated at the beginning
of my remarks, less than a month
later, we experienced another shooting.
A man went on a shooting rampage be-
tween Midland and Odessa, killing 7
people and wounding 25 others. When I
visited Odessa this last week, I met
Odessa police officer James Santana,
who was injured in the shooting but
fortunately is expected to make a full
recovery.
When I asked the police chief in
Ector County, which is where Odessa is
located: What do you think we might
be able to do in Washington that would
help, he said: Well, we just don’t have
adequate resources to deal with people
suffering from a mental health crisis.
That might be one area where you
could help.
I had the pleasure of thanking the
men and women in blue, our law en-
forcement officers, for their quick re-
sponse in Odessa and thanked them for
the work they do every day.
By the way, I also had the oppor-
tunity to travel to the White House
this morning. President Trump gave an
award to the police officers in Dayton,
OH, who were able to stop the shooter
there. He offered certificates of com-
mendation to some of the employees of
Walmart who helped save lives in the
shooting episode there.
While major events like these are
ones that grab the headlines, Texas law
enforcement officials and officials all
over the country are on the streets
each and every day doing everything
they can possibly do to keep our com-
munities safe. I think it would just be
negligence on our part not to continue
to thank these men and women and es-
pecially those who responded to trage-
dies like El Paso, Midland, and Odessa.
As our State continues to grieve
from this senseless loss of life, the
questions are, of course, How did this
happen? How can we prevent it from
happening again? Well, I know we are
going to try, just as we have done in
the past, to identify gaps and problems
with the law and fill those gaps and
save lives in the process.
If I knew how we could pass a law
that would prevent people from com-
mitting crimes, we would pass it unani-
mously, but, unfortunately, that is not
the human condition. I have been
speaking with my constituents as well
as colleagues in the Senate over the
last few weeks about what a legislative
solution might look like, and I do ex-
pect us to have a wide range of debate
on the subject in the coming days.
I just spoke to a representative at
the White House. They say they are
putting together a set of proposals to
provide the President later this week,
and we look forward to hearing what
the President believes these proposals
should consist of.
Again, I think the model we used
after the Sutherland Springs shooting
in 2017 was a pretty good one, where we
introduced a bill to improve the back-
ground check system and to prevent
people who should not be able to pur-
chase a firearm from doing so. We
passed that legislation on a broad bi-
partisan basis. Had that legislation
passed sooner, it could have prevented
the Sutherland Springs gunman from
acquiring his weapon in the first place.
By lying on his background check ap-
plication, knowing, perhaps, that the
United States Air Force had not
uploaded his conviction for domestic
violence into the background check
system, he was able to get away with
it.
These are the kind of reforms I be-
lieve we should be looking at—real so-
lutions to real problems. We owe it to
the American people to focus on mak-
ing changes that will actually work,
not show votes and not talking points.
We ought to be about trying to solve
this problem.
The American people are smart. They
can see what is happening up here
when we resort to the same old tired
talking points and are not really en-
gaged in trying to find solutions. They
see through it, and we owe it to them
and owe it to ourselves and owe it to
people who might otherwise become fu-
ture victims to do everything we can to
provide the tools to law enforcement to
try to prevent as many of these deaths
as we can.
In the case of the Fix NICS Act, it
was able to become law because it had
broad support from Republicans and
Democrats as well as the President.
This will guide my approach. Again, I
am not interested in scoring political
points or introducing bills so we can
pat ourselves on the back and run our
next campaign on it. I am actually in-
terested in trying to solve the problem
and saving lives in the process. That is
what we did on the Fix NICS Act.
The leader made it clear that if there
is a proposal out there that is able
meet these same criteria, we will con-
sider it on the floor of the Senate. He
has asked us to come together and fig-
ure out what that legislation would
look like. While there are certainly dif-
ferences on both sides of the aisle
about what we should do, I hope all of
us can remember we share a common
goal of stopping these mass shootings
to the extent we humanly can.
Again, if we knew how to pass a law
to prevent people from committing
crimes, we would have already done
that. We may not be able to do that,
but we sure can, I think, make some
progress and hopefully save some lives
in the process.
There are a lot of discussions about
ways to do that, and I am hopeful we
can reach an agreement soon. We can-
not allow these acts of violence to
somehow become the new normal. As
we keep the victims and their families
and the dedicated law enforcement offi-
cers impacted by the shooting in our
prayers, we owe it to all of them and to
ourselves to work on a solution to pre-
vent more communities from experi-
encing these types of tragedies.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Kelly Craft, of Kentucky, to be
Representative of the United States of Amer-
ica to the Sessions of the General Assembly
of the United Nations during her tenure of
service as Representative of the United
States of America to the United Nations.
Mitch McConnell, John Cornyn, Mike
Crapo, Shelley Moore Capito, Mike
Rounds, John Boozman, Thom Tillis,
Richard Burr, James E. Risch, David
Perdue, Roy Blunt, Kevin Cramer,
Roger F. Wicker, Tom Cotton, John
Barrasso, Steve Daines, John Thune.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Kelly Craft, of Kentucky, to be the
Representative of the United States of
America to the Sessions of the General
Assembly of the United Nations during
her tenure of service as Representative
of the United States of America to the
United Nations, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:41 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09SE6.010 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5353
September 9, 2019
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from South Carolina (Mr. GRA-
HAM), the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
ROBERTS), and the Senator from North
Carolina (Mr. TILLIS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. Har-
ris), the Senator from Vermont (Mr.
SANDERS), and the Senator from Ari-
zona (Ms. SINEMA) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 54,
nays 38, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 263 Ex.]
YEAS—54
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—38
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—8
Alexander
Booker
Graham
Harris
Roberts
Sanders
Sinema
Tillis
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 54, the nays are 38.
The motion is agreed to.
The Senator from Georgia.
TRIBUTE TO VINCE DOOLEY
Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, I rise
for a moment to pay tribute to a great
Georgian and his wife who this past
Saturday in Athens, GA, before the
University of Georgia football game,
were honored by naming the field at
the Sanford Stadium, Dooley Field.
Vince Dooley coached Georgia to a
national championship in 1980 and
coached Herschel Walker, probably the
most famous running back in the his-
tory of football. He was also a great
contributor to the university, contrib-
uting millions of dollars himself, per-
sonally, to see that libraries were
built. He wrote seven books, including
a book on flowers, which is the one
that all botanists around the world pay
attention to, and he is an expert histo-
rian on the Civil War. He is just a great
American. He went to Auburn, but he
recovered and came to Georgia.
He started coaching at Georgia and
did better and better until he got us a
national championship. This weekend,
as our senior past athletic director and
past coach, we named the field at Geor-
gia after Vince Dooley for 25 years of
outstanding service to the university
and a lifetime of service to education.
May God bless Vince Dooley, Barbara
Dooley, and their family. Congratula-
tions to the University of Georgia and
congratulations to Vince.
I yield back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing rule XXII, the postcloture
time on the Craft nomination expire at
11:50 a.m. on Tuesday, September 10;
further, that if cloture is invoked on
the Darling nomination, the
postcloture time expire at 2:15 p.m. and
if either of these nominations are con-
firmed, the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table and the President be immediately
notified of the Senate’s action; finally,
that notwithstanding rule XXII, fol-
lowing disposition of the Darling nomi-
nation, the Senate vote on cloture mo-
tions for the Akard, Cabaniss, and
Byrne nominations.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session for a
period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO SHERIFF ED BRADY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, it is
a distinct privilege to recognize my
friend, Henderson County Sheriff Ed
Brady, who is celebrating 50 years of a
remarkable law enforcement career.
Throughout his distinguished service,
Ed has answered the call of duty and
protected Kentucky families and com-
munities. I am proud to join his family,
colleagues, and friends in marking this
golden anniversary.
Ed began his career in law enforce-
ment as a dispatcher with the Ken-
tucky State Police. He joined the de-
partment while in college, attending
classes all day before working the
dispatch’s third shift overnight. It cer-
tainly wasn’t easy, but the experience
showed Ed’s work ethic and steadfast
commitment to the public’s safety.
Although his father was a Kentucky
State Police Trooper, Ed never thought
he would be one himself, but after a
few years as a dispatcher, he heard the
calling to leave the office and enter the
academy. As the youngest member of
his class—and for a time the youngest
trooper in Kentucky—Ed focused dili-
gently on his training to get the expe-
rience he needed to excel. For 22 years,
Ed worked for the Kentucky State Po-
lice, earning a reputation for his lead-
ership and service.
Ed remembers his decision to leave
the Kentucky State Police was among
the hardest of his entire life, but he
was presented with an offer too good to
turn down. The City of Henderson, Ed’s
hometown, asked him to lead their po-
lice force as its chief. Although it was
a major shift from his previous job, he
was ready to hit the ground running. In
fact, he was sworn-in as the Henderson
Chief of Police only hours after turning
in his State trooper badge.
As the new police chief, Ed knew he
had to work to earn the trust of both
his law enforcement colleagues and the
Henderson community. To address the
former, he invested a great deal of time
into hearing from his new officers and
building relationships. To gain the re-
spect of the citizens of Henderson, Ed
implemented community policing prac-
tices. He and his officers went directly
into previously underserved areas in a
coordinated effort with the city gov-
ernment. He organized more bicycle
and foot patrols and a committee fo-
cused on minority relations.
Looking back on his career, Ed called
the transformation of this area of Hen-
derson his proudest accomplishment
because, in his words, ‘‘We gave people
back their neighborhood.’’
After more than a decade and half as
a successful chief, Ed was on the look-
out for a new challenge. He wanted to
get back to his rural-policing roots and
decided to run for Henderson County
Sheriff. Since his first election and for
the last 12 years, he has done just that.
As Sheriff, Ed leads his deputies with
distinction.
Over the years, I have worked with
Ed on a number of projects in our Com-
monwealth, including to deliver crit-
ical resources to bolster the work of
local law enforcement. It is an honor to
call him a dear friend. To celebrate his
golden anniversary in law enforcement,
Ed’s family and colleagues surprised
him with an event in his honor. He cer-
tainly deserves our recognition for his
dedication to his community and his
years of leadership in Kentucky. I
would also like to recognize his wife
Amy, an impressive public servant in
her own right. As Henderson County’s
jailer, Amy is the other half of this re-
markable team. I ask my Senate col-
leagues to join me in marking this
wonderful occasion and wishing Ed and
Amy many more successful years to
come.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:13 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09SE6.013 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5354 September 9, 2019
TRIBUTE TO TONY RECK
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
want to take a moment today to honor
Tony Reck, who recently marked 50
years of excellence in the railway in-
dustry. He has been a friend and a lead-
er in western Kentucky for many
years, and I would like to join his fam-
ily, friends, and colleagues in cele-
brating Tony’s great success.
Interestingly enough, Tony never
planned to enter the railroad business
at all. He studied aviation and joined
the Air National Guard, expecting to
spend his career in the skies. Instead,
Tony’s half-century career in the rail-
road industry began as a summer job at
the Illinois Central railroad after his
first year of college. When he returned
to school, Tony kept working at the
railroad, eventually going to class all
day and working at night. Clearly,
Tony had developed an unbeatable
work ethic early on, and it has served
him well throughout his career.
Tony was selected to join the rail-
road’s sales department based in St.
Louis, giving him the chance to travel
throughout its service area. It was that
position in which Tony began over-
seeing the operations in Kentucky.
Changes in Federal regulations also
meant big changes for Tony. When Jim
Smith and David Reed purchased a
Western Kentucky railway, they
named it the Paducah & Louisville
Railway and asked Tony to help them
run the operation. Two years later,
Tony was named the president of the
P&L Railway, and in 1995, he became
chairman and CEO. According to P&L,
this full-service, 265-mile, regional rail-
road moves more than 21 million tons
of freight each year and supports hun-
dreds of good jobs in western Ken-
tucky.
Tapping into Paducah’s geography as
the inland waterways capital of the
world, the railway coordinates with
barge operators to expand its reach
even further. Shipping many important
products, including coal, P&L also con-
nects to five of the largest railroads in
the country. Tony’s long career man-
aging these complex logistics has
earned him a top-notch reputation
both in the industry and the local com-
munity.
Tony’s experience and leadership
continue to serve western Kentucky
well, and I am proud to help him cele-
brate this milestone accomplishment. I
wish him and his wife Farideh many
more happy years as they continue to
help make Paducah a great place to
live and work. I urge my Senate col-
leagues to join me in marking 50 years
of Tony’s remarkable career in the
railway industry.
f
TRIBUTE TO BRIGADIER GENERAL
RON VAN STOCKUM
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, re-
cently my home State of Kentucky had
the opportunity to celebrate the 103rd
birthday of a truly remarkable indi-
vidual. Brigadier General Ron Van
Stockum marked the occasion by shar-
ing his lifetime full of rich memories in
Shelbyville’s ‘‘Sentinel-News.’’ I would
like to take a moment today to pay
tribute to my friend and join Ron’s ad-
mirers across Kentucky in thanking
him for his service.
Ron was born in England in the midst
of the First World War. His father, a
sergeant in the British forces, was
tragically killed in the Battle of the
Somme a week before the birth of his
son. While her heart may have been
broken, Ron’s mother Florence felt de-
termined to continue serving their Na-
tion in uniform. Before his second
birthday, Florence placed Ron in the
care of their relatives and joined the
Women’s Royal Air Force.
Through her service in the war effort,
Florence first met Anton Van
Stockum, an immigrant to the United
States who volunteered to serve his
adoptive homeland in the U.S. Army
Air Corps. Florence and Anton quickly
developed an affection for one another,
sharing a letter-writing correspondence
that lasted beyond the war’s conclu-
sion.
Returning home, Anton settled in Se-
attle, WA, and worked at a lumber
mill. Florence decided to travel with
Ron, now nearly four, to visit her pen
pal. It was a journey that would for-
ever change their lives and set Ron on
a previously unimagined path.
After traveling thousands of miles,
Florence and Ron finally reunited with
Anton in British Columbia. They mar-
ried and settled in the United States to
start a new family. Interestingly, no
record was made of Ron’s entry into
our country. That oversight would
prove challenging in the coming years
when Ron, like his father, mother, and
stepfather before him, chose to serve in
uniform.
While studying at the University of
Washington, Ron sought to enter the
Advanced Reserve Officers’ Training
Corps. It would be his first step in a
distinguished career of service. With-
out an official proof of citizenship,
however, he almost wasn’t allowed in
at all. Ron and his family were forced
to gather multiple testimonials docu-
menting his life in the United States
and attesting to his story. He was per-
mitted to join the ROTC and was later
commissioned as a second lieutenant in
the U.S. Marine Corps. The experience
led Ron to value the high honor of call-
ing himself an American.
For the next three decades, Ron hon-
orably served as a marine. During
World War II, he was part of the am-
phibious assaults in the Pacific. Ron
also served at sea with the Navy
aboard a battleship and an aircraft car-
rier. Because of his diligent service and
remarkable merit, he eventually
achieved the rank of brigadier general.
When Ron retired from active duty,
he and his wife Susanne moved to her
family’s historic farm in Shelby Coun-
ty, KY. Since 1970, our Commonwealth
has been made better because of Ron’s
many contributions to the State. Here,
he began his second career in edu-
cation. Spending 11 years at my alma
mater, the University of Louisville,
Ron served as the assistant dean for
administration at the school of medi-
cine and later as the assistant to the
president of Uof L.
In 1981, Ron began what he calls his
second retirement, but his friends
knew there was no chance he would
slow down. Since then, he has written
six books chronicling the history of our
Commonwealth and his own family lin-
eage. He has also taken to writing for
the ‘‘Sentinel-News,’’ and he has pub-
lished more than 250 columns on a wide
variety of interests.
Over the years, it is been a privilege
to call this great American a dear
friend, and I’ve enjoyed reading his re-
flections. As he celebrates his 103rd
birthday, I share my sincere congratu-
lations and best wishes. We are so
proud of his contributions to our Com-
monwealth and his service to this Na-
tion. I urge my Senate colleagues to
join me in wishing a happy birthday
and many future successes to Brigadier
General Ron Van Stockum.
f
ENFORCING BUDGETARY LEVELS
FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, the Bipar-
tisan Budget Act of 2019, PL 16–37, in-
cluded an instruction to the chairman
of the Senate Committee on the Budget
to file allocations, aggregates, and
budgetary levels in the Senate as soon
as practicable. Today, I rise to submit
the required filing found in that act.
Specifically, sections 204 and 206 of
the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019 re-
quire the chairman to file, No. 1, allo-
cations for fiscal year 2020 for the Com-
mittee on Appropriations; No. 2, alloca-
tions for fiscal years 2020, 2020 through
2024, and 2020 through 2029 for commit-
tees other than the Committee on Ap-
propriations; No. 3, aggregate spending
levels for fiscal year 2020; No. 4, aggre-
gate revenue levels for fiscal year 2020,
2020 through 2024, and 2020 through 2029;
No. 5, aggregate levels of outlays and
revenue for fiscal years 2020, 2020
through 2024, and 2020 through 2029 for
Social Security; and, No. 6, a list of ac-
counts eligible to receive advance ap-
propriations.
The figures included in this filing are
consistent with the discretionary
spending limits set forth in the Bipar-
tisan Budget Act of 2019 and the Con-
gressional Budget Office’s May 2019
baseline, as adjusted to reflect legisla-
tion enacted since the publication of
the baseline. In instances where en-
forceable discretionary levels are re-
quired to be adjusted for spending des-
ignated as an emergency pursuant to
the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act, as amended, in-
cluding funding in both the Additional
Supplemental Appropriations for Dis-
aster Relief Act, 2019, PL 116–20, and
the Emergency Supplemental Appro-
priations for Humanitarian Assistance
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09SE6.016 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5355
September 9, 2019
and Border Security at the Southern
Border Act, 2019, PL 116–26, those ad-
justments are included.
In addition to the update for enforce-
able limits above, section 204 of the Bi-
partisan Budget Act of 2019 allows for
the deficit-neutral reserve funds in-
cluded in title III of the fiscal year 2018
congressional budget resolution—H.
Con. Res. 71, 115th Congress—to be up-
dated by 2 fiscal years. Pursuant to
this authority, all deficit-neutral re-
serve funds in the aforementioned title
of the fiscal year 2018 congressional
budget resolution are updated and
available for use.
For purposes of enforcing the Sen-
ate’s pay-as-you-go rule, which is found
in section 4106 of the fiscal year 2018
congressional budget resolution, I am
resetting the Senate’s scorecard to zero
for all fiscal years.
All years in the accompanying tables
are fiscal years.
I ask unanimous consent that the ac-
companying tables detailing enforce-
ment in the Senate be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
ALLOCATION OF SPENDING AUTHORITY TO SENATE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
[Pursuant to Section 302 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and Section 204 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019 ($ Billions)]
Budget
Authority
Outlays
Appropriations:
Revised Security Category Discretionary Budget Authority 1 ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 666.500 n/a
Revised Nonsecurity Category Discretionary Budget Authority 1 ................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 621.508 n/a
General Purpose Outlays 1 ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. n/a 1,364.251
Memo:
Subtotal ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1,288.008 1,364.251
on-budget ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1,282.266 1,358.580
off-budget ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 5.742 5.671
Mandatory ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1,080.866 1,072.205
1 The allocation will be adjusted following the reporting of bills, offering of amendments, or submission of conference reports that qualify for adjustments to the discretionary spending limits as outlined in section 251(b) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985. The budget authority for the revised nonsecurity category and outlays have been adjusted in this table ($8 million in budget authority and $6,251 million in outlays, in total) to re-
flect enactment of the Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Act, 2019 (P.L. 116–20) and the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Humanitarian Assistance and Security at the Southern Border Act, 2019 (P.L.
116–26), both of which included appropriations that were designated as emergencies pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of BBEDCA.
ALLOCATION OF SPENDING AUTHORITY TO SENATE COMMITTEES OTHER THAN APPROPRIATIONS
[Pursuant to Section 302 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and Section 204 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019 ($ Billions)]
2020 2020–2024 2020–2029
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 118.209 616.074 1,292.431
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 109.763 566.684 1,194.046
Armed Services:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 181.900 971.472 1,752.114
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 181.726 970.392 1,750.938
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 19.685 101.347 209.084
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0.884 ¥0.095 ¥2.710
Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 18.499 91.092 186.754
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 16.013 74.773 144.591
Energy and Natural Resources:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 5.283 25.168 49.098
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 5.105 25.702 49.808
Environment and Public Works:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 41.403 207.249 414.545
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2.174 11.617 26.073
Finance:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2,624.780 15,076.375 35,392.167
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2,607.237 15,014.396 35,317.440
Foreign Relations:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 39.033 179.375 352.756
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 34.467 172.525 345.573
Homeland Security and Government Affairs:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 153.591 815.446 1,746.667
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 151.248 803.830 1,720.159
Judiciary:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 23.016 94.979 183.370
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 19.599 102.279 191.142
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 32.257 133.349 256.222
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 21.155 109.359 227.918
Rules and Administration:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 0.050 0.248 0.498
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0.026 0.136 0.297
Intelligence:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 0.514 2.570 5.140
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0.514 2.570 5.140
Veterans’ Affairs:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 119.779 640.705 1,401.686
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 122.807 643.609 1,403.403
Indian Affairs:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 0.419 2.157 4.470
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0.473 2.083 4.332
Small Business:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 0.000 0.000 0.000
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0.000 0.000 0.000
Unassigned to Committee:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ¥957.131 ¥5,327.877 ¥12,039.353
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ¥951.075 ¥5,288.820 ¥11,943.852
Total:
Budget Authority ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2,421.287 13,629.729 31,207.649
Outlays ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2,322.116 13,211.040 30,434.298
Includes entitlements funded in annual appropriations acts.
BUDGET AGGREGATES
[Pursuant to Section 311 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and Section 204 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019 ($ Billions)]
2020 2020–2024 2020–2029
Spending:
Budget Authority ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3,703.553 N.A. N.A.
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 3,680.696 N.A. N.A.
Revenue ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2,740.538 15,073.859 34,847.317
N.A. = Not Applicable.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:13 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE6.040 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5356 September 9, 2019
SOCIAL SECURITY LEVELS
[Pursuant to Section 311 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and
Section 204 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2019 ($ Billions)]
2020 2020–2024 2020–2029
Outlays ....... 961.174 5,491.502 12,960.450
Revenue ...... 940.397 5,083.693 11,238.104
ACCOUNTS IDENTIFIED FOR ADVANCE APPROPRIATIONS
[Pursuant to Section 206 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of
2019]
Financial Services and General Government:
Payment to Postal Service
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education:
Employment and Training Administration
Education for the Disadvantaged
School Improvement
Special Education
Career, Technical, and Adult Education
Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development:
Tenant-based Rental Assistance
Project-based Rental Assistance
PAY-AS-YOU-GO SCORECARD FOR THE SENATE
[$ Billions]
Balances
Fiscal Year 2019 .................................................................... 0
Fiscal Year 2020 .................................................................... 0
Fiscal Years 2019 through 2024 ........................................... 0
Fiscal Years 2019 through 2029 ........................................... 0
f
REMEMBERING CHARLES C.
MYERS
Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, today I
rise to honor the life of Charles C.
Myers, a proud American and a deco-
rated World War II veteran.
While Charles is no longer with us,
his legacy lives on. On behalf of the
U.S. Senate and all Americans, I would
like extend our deepest gratitude for
his service to this Nation.
Charles was born on November 19,
1926, in Bismarck, AR. He grew up on
his family’s farm in Hot Springs Coun-
ty, where he was raised by his mother
and father, alongside two sisters and
three brothers.
Charles had an unyielding sense of
adventure, spending his youth hunting
squirrels and riding horses. He quickly
earned a reputation as an avid horse-
back rider, watchful older brother, and
dutiful son.
Like many young men during the
war, the Myers boys felt a strong obli-
gation to defend their country. All four
brothers joined the military through-
out the course of the war, including
Charles, whose determination to enlist
knew no bounds. He falsified his age on
his enlistment papers, enrolling into
the Army as a paramedic. For Charles,
this was a critical moment that filled
him with a burgeoning sense of loyalty
and honor.
After Charles completed his training
at Fort Bliss, he was sent overseas,
where he served as a highly respected
combat medic in the 5th Cavalry Regi-
ment 1st Cavalry Division of the Army,
operating in the Pacific theater. There,
the cross on the back of a combat
medic eventually served as a con-
spicuous target for the enemy. Charles
made the ultimate sacrifice while sav-
ing others, giving his life for our Na-
tion’s freedom.
I now have the profound honor of pre-
senting Charles’ family with his set of
military honors. For his bravery in line
of duty, Charles C. Myers received the
Purple Heart Medal, Army Good Con-
duct Medal, Asiatic-Pacific Campaign
Medal with 2 Bronze Service Stars,
World War II Victory Medal, and Presi-
dential Unit Citation, formerly Distin-
guished Unit Citation. These medals
serve are a small token of our coun-
try’s appreciation for Charles’s service
and his profound sacrifice. He is an
American hero who has made our Na-
tion proud.
f
NATIONAL GASTROPARESIS
MONTH
Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, I
would like to call attention to the esti-
mated 5 million Americans suffering
from gastroparesis and recognize the
observance of National Gastroparesis
Month, which takes place in August.
Gastroparesis is a chronic digestive
disease caused by the stomach’s inabil-
ity to empty properly in the absence of
any observable blockage. Symptoms of
gastroparesis, which include nausea,
vomiting, and the inability to finish a
normal-sized meal, can lead to mal-
nutrition, severe dehydration, and dif-
ficulty managing blood glucose levels.
This debilitating and sometimes life-
threatening disease affects people of all
ages, including thousands of patients
in my home State of Wisconsin, but it
is four times more likely to affect
women than men.
There is no known cure for
gastroparesis, and the condition is
poorly understood. Some treatments,
such as dietary measures, medications,
procedures to maintain nutrition, and
surgery, can help reduce symptoms;
however, patients often face delayed
diagnosis and struggle to manage their
gastroparesis and access treatment. In-
creases in related hospitalizations and
emergency room visits can be linked to
rising rates of this disease, which may
negatively impact the capabilities of
our health care community.
Nonprofit advocacy organizations
like the International Foundation for
Gastrointestinal Disorders, or IFFGD,
are leading the charge to further re-
search, raise awareness, and provide
education and support to help those af-
fected by gastroparesis. IFFGD was
founded in my home state of Wis-
consin, and I am proud of the work
they do for gastroparesis patients
across the country.
In an effort to improve our under-
standing and awareness of
gastroparesis, I urge my fellow col-
leagues to join me in recognizing Au-
gust as National Gastroparesis Aware-
ness Month. Thank you.
f
TRIBUTE TO WILLIAM CRAIG
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, today I
wish to honor the career of Dr. William
‘‘Bill’’ Craig, who retired on June 25,
2018, after 58 years of civilian service.
Dr. Craig served as the director of the
Software Engineering Directorate SED
for 30 years at Redstone Arsenal in
Huntsville, AL. Through his direction,
SED experienced significant growth
not only within its customer base but
also by expanding its facilities. He has
provided decades of service to improve
the development and fielding of numer-
ous Army systems, as well as the qual-
ity of life in his community and across
the State of Alabama.
Mr. Bill Craig is a native of
Senatobia, MS, and he received a bach-
elor’s degree in electrical engineering
from Mississippi State University. His
civil service career began in 1960 at Dr.
Werhner von Braun’s astronics labora-
tory. Ten years later, he moved to the
Army Ballistic Missile Defense Agency.
He later became a charter member to
the Army Missile Command’s Missile
System Software Center in 1976.
Bill has earned many recognitions
throughout his career, including an
honorary doctorate degree from the
University of Alabama in Huntsville.
In 1985, he was awarded Supervisor of
the Year by the North Alabama Chap-
ter of Federally Employed Women. Bill
was the first recipient of the Joseph C.
Moquin Award given by the Huntsville
Association of Technology Societies.
Bill also received the Medaris Award
from the Tennessee Valley National
Defense Industrial Association, and he
was inducted into the Alabama Engi-
neering Hall of Fame, the Order of
Saint Barbara, and the Ancient Order
of Saint Barbara.
What is truly remarkable are Bill
Craig’s many contributions to the
State of Alabama and the U.S. Army
through his work at Redstone Arsenal.
I am proud to take this time to recog-
nize him for his service to the people of
Alabama and the people of our country.
Bill is a highly respected leader and vi-
sionary in the State, and I thank him
for his commitment to Alabama.
f
TRIBUTE TO ANN RICHARDSON
MCNAIR
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, today I
wish to honor the remarkable career of
Ann Richardson McNair, who dedicated
over 51 years of service to NASA’s Mar-
shall Space Flight Center and the Red-
stone Arsenal, both located in Hunts-
ville, AL. Mrs. McNair was an acknowl-
edged leader in both the engineering
and institutional fields at Marshall.
She held many significant positions
and earned outstanding honors and rec-
ognitions during her tenure there. Mrs.
McNair has provided decades of service
to improve the quality of life in her
community and across the State of
Alabama, and her notable career has
left a lasting mark on the space indus-
try.
Mrs. McNair earned her bachelor’s
degree in mathematics and physics
from the University of Alabama. In
1958, she began her career with the
Army Ballistic Missile Agency at Red-
stone Arsenal. Mrs. McNair then moved
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:13 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE6.040 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5357
September 9, 2019
on to work at Marshall Space Flight
Center in 1960. She continued her work
there until retiring in 2012.
Mrs. Ann McNair has earned many
recognitions and made history
throughout her career, among them
being the first female supervisor in en-
gineering at Marshall. She was award-
ed the Team Redstone Women’s His-
tory Award and the Technology Award
for Women Honoring Women from the
Women’s Economic Development Coun-
cil. Ann received the Presidential Rank
Award for Meritorious Executives in
2009, which is the highest honor a Fed-
eral employee can receive. The Ala-
bama Senate also commended her in
2009 for her outstanding professional
achievement during her 50 years of
NASA service. Other noteworthy rec-
ognitions include the Outstanding
Leadership Medal for leading the Mis-
sion Operations Laboratory, the NASA
Exception Achievement Medal, and two
NASA Exceptional Service Medals.
Ann’s contributions to NASA and
Marshall Space Flight Center are truly
exceptional. I am proud to take this
time to recognize her service to the
State, as well as to the Nation. Her
achievements and dedication to ad-
vancing the industry have made a last-
ing impact. I join Ann McNair’s
friends, family, and former colleagues
in recognizing her wonderful career,
and I thank her for her commitment to
Alabama.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO LOIS BOUTON
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today
I wish to honor Lois Bouton, a WWII
veteran who honorably served her
country and has inspired generations of
members of the U.S. Coast Guard with
her letters. I am pleased to recognize
this remarkable Arkansan as she cele-
brates her 100th birthday.
Lois has spent her life serving among
and connecting with members of the
Coast Guard—first, as a member of the
SPARs, the Woman’s Reserve of the
U.S. Coast Guard, and then as a visitor
to patients—especially members of the
Coast Guard at Naval Station Great
Lakes Hospital—and now through the
letters she diligently writes to USCG
members across the country which
earned her the nickname the Coast
Guard Lady.
‘‘I like to write letters,’’ Lois said
during an interview my staff conducted
with her for the Veterans History
Project. In the decades since she start-
ed outreach to coasties through the
mail, she has written nearly 50,000 let-
ters.
In the early 1970s, the Boutons re-
tired to northwest Arkansas. That is
when her outreach to coasties began to
take off. She started writing to Coast
Guard units in Alaska, and soon, she
had the directory with addresses of
units across the country.
While far from the coast, her Rogers,
AR, home is a museum of Coast Guard
memorabilia. Her collection includes
the Meritorious Public Service Award
she received from the Commandant of
the Coast Guard, the second highest ci-
vilian award issued by the Coast
Guard. In 2013, she was named an hon-
orary chief petty officer.
Her love and appreciation for the
Coast Guard is unmatched as dem-
onstrated by her decades-long practice
of correspondence to show her support
for the men and women who wear the
Coast Guard uniform. She is well-
known among members of the Coast
Guard and receives hundreds of letters
and cards from them in return. She
continues to serve as an inspiration for
others and is widely admired for her
service to our country, the men and
women of the Coast Guard, and vet-
erans across the Nation.
I want to thank the Coast Guard
Lady, Lois Bouton, for her service and
continued support of the U.S. Coast
Guard and wish her a very happy 100th
birthday.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO ANNELIESE SATZ
∑ Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I con-
gratulate U.S. Marine Capt. Anneliese
Satz, of Boise, ID, on her many
achievements, including being the first
woman to fly the F–35 fighter jet for
the U.S. Marine Corps. Above all, I
thank Captain Satz for her service to
our Nation.
In June, Captain Satz became the
first female marine to complete the F–
35B basic course. Before she joined the
Marines, she earned her commercial pi-
lots license flying helicopters. I under-
stand Captain Satz has been assigned
to her first operational unit: The Green
Knights of Marine Fighter Attack
Squadron 121 in Iwakuni, Japan.
My home State of Idaho is full of
trailblazers. Among them are the
women who are leaders, innovators and
architects of a new reality where the
‘‘first woman to . . .’’ is rightfully be-
coming a descriptor of the past. Cap-
tain Satz is a courageous marine fight-
er jet pilot. She is also a ground-
breaker who worked hard to complete
her training and prepare for her service
ahead.
Thank you, Anneliese, for your serv-
ice to our country and for your hard
work and great leadership. Your prepa-
ration and diligence are commendable.
You are showing young Americans and
adults alike through your example of
dedication and proficiency that high
goals are achievable.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO JANE WITTMEYER
∑ Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I con-
gratulate Jane Wittmeyer, who is re-
tiring after a more than 40-year career
in Federal, State, agricultural, and
natural resources policy work.
Jane has provided knowledgeable,
helpful, and insightful counsel to many
throughout her decades of dedicated
service. Jane managed my Washington,
DC, office, for 4 years during my time
serving in the U.S. House of Represent-
atives. She brought with her the expe-
rience she gained working previously
for two former U.S. Senators for Idaho,
Senators Steve Symms and James
McClure, and serving in positions at
the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
USDA. Her work at USDA included
serving as Deputy Manager for USDA’s
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation.
Jane was invaluable in helping me get
started in Congress. She came aboard
to run my DC office at the beginning of
my tenure in the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives. Her knowledge and under-
standing of the procedures, policies,
and politics in Congress were useful, as
I, as a freshman in the minority,
worked to best represent Idaho. She
had a deep understanding of Idaho
through her previous work for Senators
McClure and Symms, and I always
knew I could count on her advice and
opinions to help me make good deci-
sions on legislation and other matters.
Jane left my office to return to Idaho
and join the Intermountain Forest As-
sociation.
Most recently, for the past 15 years,
Jane has operated her own government
affairs firm, Wittmeyer and Associates,
assisting many in the timber, agricul-
tural, and other related industries.
Jane is direct and personable. She rec-
ognizes the great value in and makes
use of bringing multiple perspectives
to the table to advance a common
cause. She has lent her energy and ex-
pertise into getting countless things
done for Idahoans and others. I have
been one of the lucky people to benefit
greatly from having Jane on my team.
Her thoughtful guidance is a true
asset.
I understand that in retirement, Jane
plans to find something she can do to
help people in addition to traveling and
spending time with family and friends.
That does not surprise me. Jane has
dedicated much of her time to helping
others, through identifying solutions,
providing experienced advocacy on
their behalf, assisting with navigating
State and Federal policies, and more.
Thank you, Jane, for your outstanding
work and friendship all these years.
Congratulations on an exemplary ca-
reer. I wish you all the best for a re-
tirement filled with great happiness
you so deeply deserve.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO CAPTAIN MIKE
VITALI
∑ Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I rise
today to pay special tribute to an ex-
ceptional officer of the U.S. Navy,
CAPT Mike Vitali. Captain Vitali cur-
rently serves as the senior military ad-
viser for the Deputy Assistant Sec-
retary of Defense for Homeland Defense
Integration and Defense Support for
Civil Authorities and will be released
from Active Duty after more than 24
years of active military service on Oc-
tober 1, 2019. As a native of Maple
Heights, OH, it is my distinct privilege
to recognize his storied career.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE6.033 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5358 September 9, 2019
CAPT Mike Vitali began his naval
career as a midshipman in the Naval
Reserve Officer Training Corps at Pur-
due University in West Lafayette, IN.
Captain Vitali was commissioned as an
ensign upon his graduation from Pur-
due in 1994 and then went to the Pensa-
cola, FL, where he earned his naval
flight officer wings of gold on August
16, 1996.
As a newly minted naval flight offi-
cer, Mike earned his initial qualifica-
tions in the S–3B Viking at Sea Control
Squadron Forty-One, VS–41, and then
joined the VS–35 Blue Wolves at Naval
Air Station North Island in San Diego,
CA. Captain Vitali went on to complete
two deployments aboard the USS Abra-
ham Lincoln in support of Operations
SOUTHERN WATCH and DESERT FOX
in the skies over Iraq. In October 2000,
he returned to VS–41 as an instructor
where he trained replacement pilots
and navigators in S–3B operations and
tactics. As a result of the Viking Sun-
down program, Captain Vitali led the
fleet’s transition program and com-
pleted training in the P–3C Orion at
Patrol Squadron Thirty, VP–30, in
Jacksonville, FL. He completed tours
with the VP–16 War Eagles in Jackson-
ville and VP–4 Skinny Dragons in
Kaneohe Bay, HI, where he conducted
antisubmarine, maritime interdiction,
counterdrug, and counterterrorism op-
erations while deployed to Sicily,
Djibouti, El Salvador, the Philippines,
and Okinawa.
From 2008–2010, he served at the U.S.
Special Operations Command, where he
coordinated the update of SOCOMs
memorandums of agreement with the
military departments. On May 25, 2012,
he assumed command of the VP–45
Pelicans in Jacksonville, FL, and suc-
cessfully led the squadron through a
rigorous work-up cycle and SEVENTH
Fleet Deployment to Okinawa where
the squadron supported 17 detachments
and logged over 3,200 flight hours.
After command, Captain Vitali re-
ported to the Navy Office of Legisla-
tive Affairs, serving as Deputy Director
of the Senate Liaison Office, where he
supported several of my colleagues and
their staffs on congressional delega-
tions around the world. In May 2015,
Captain Vitali reported to the Office of
the Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Legislative Affairs, serving as the Di-
rector of Senate Affairs advising the
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Leg-
islative Affairs on all matters per-
taining to the U.S. Senate, especially
the confirmation process. He was di-
rectly responsible for the Senate con-
firmation of 68 Presidentially ap-
pointed civilian positions within the
Department of Defense across two ad-
ministrations to include the Secretary
of Defense, Deputy Secretary of De-
fense, three Service Secretaries, four
Under Secretaries to the Office of the
Secretary of Defense, three Service
Under Secretaries, and numerous As-
sistant Secretaries of Defense. His solid
relationships and unmatched credi-
bility with senior officials were indis-
pensable in maintaining a high level of
support and dialogue with Senators
and their staffs.
Throughout his career, Captain
Vitali has logged over 2,570 flight hours
and 267 carrier landings.
I ask that you join me, our col-
leagues, and CAPT Mike Vitali’s fam-
ily and friends in saluting this distin-
guished officer’s many contributions
and sacrifices in defense of our great
Nation. It is fitting that the Senate
today publicly recognizes his service
and wishes him, his wife Tracy, and
their children Gabrielle, Isabella, and
Michael health, happiness, and success
in the years to come. Congratulations,
Captain Vitali, on completing an ex-
ceptional and exemplary career.∑
f
RECOGNIZING BIOLOGIQ
∑ Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, It is easy
for me to brag about Idaho’s small
businesses because they are consist-
ently making national news for their
innovative ideas. Just last month, the
Office of Advocacy announced Idaho
ranked third in the Nation for the fast-
est growth of small businesses, cre-
ating jobs and economic opportunity
across the State in 2018. Globally,
Idaho is renowned for our ‘‘Famous
Idaho Potatoes,’’ and recently, Ida-
hoans have begun using their vast
knowledge of the potato to innovate.
As a result, new market-altering prod-
ucts are emerging, such as BioLogiQ,
Inc.’s sustainable bioplastic resin. As a
member and former chairman of the
Senate Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship, it is my pleas-
ure to recognize BioLogiQ, Inc., as the
Idaho Small Business of the Month for
September 2019.
BioLogiQ of Idaho Falls was founded
in 2011 by an Idaho native, Brad
LaPray. Like so many Idahoans,
LaPray spent a lot of his youth playing
and working outdoors and developed a
passion for nature and the agriculture
industry. He moved away for a while
and developed an interest in bioplas-
tics, but eventually came back home to
Idaho where he saw an opportunity to
use his interest in bioplastics and his
passion for the agriculture industry to
create a business. LaPray understood
that a percentage of all potatoes is
turned into starch and not used for
human consumption. His company,
BioLogiQ, uses excess potato starch to
create a sustainable bioplastic resin.
LaPray created BioLogiQ to provide
people with environmentally friendly
plastic products made from renewable
resources and reduce plastic waste
globally. As stated on their company’s
website, ‘‘BioLogiQ, Inc. is a plant-
based manufacturer focused on bring-
ing sustainable packaging solutions to
brand owners, retailers, and the plas-
tics industry. Using its proprietary
process, BioLogiQ’s makes a low mois-
ture content plasticized starch resin
pellet called NuPlastiQ. We make
NuPlastiQ in pellet form so plastic
product manufacturers can use them
like other traditional plastic resin pel-
lets using their standard production
equipment. BioLogiQ’s NuPlastiQ pel-
lets are designed to be blended with
conventional petroleum-resin pellets to
make BioBlends that increase the sus-
tainability of all plastic products.’’
NuPlastiQ technology makes it pos-
sible to reduce the thickness of plastic
bags and is most widely seen in
TaterMade Bags at retailers such as
Walmart and Sam’s Club.
Through their hard work, expertise,
and desire to make a difference,
BioLogiQ is now an industry-leading
sustainable bioplastic resin provider.
BioLogiQ is reshaping the bioplastic
market, and I have full faith they will
continue to be successful. I would like
to extend my sincerest congratulations
to Brad LaPray and all of the employ-
ees at BioLogiQ, Inc., for being selected
as the Idaho Small Business of the
Month for September 2019. You make
our great State proud, and I look for-
ward to watching your continued
growth and success.∑
f
REMEMBERING DR. THOMAS MOSS
∑ Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina. Mr.
President, today I would like to take a
moment to recognize and honor the life
of Dr. Thomas Moss, a great South Car-
olinian who touched the hearts and
minds of countless people across our
State. While Dr. Moss passed away in
2004, his legacy lives on today in many
ways and deserves to be honored still.
Dr. Moss was an Orangeburg, S.C.,
native and attended Morris College in
Sumter before being drafted into the
U.S. Army to serve in the Korean war.
He was a lifelong advocate for edu-
cation and civil rights and devoted his
life to the betterment of his commu-
nity and State. He was truly a servant
leader, and in every capacity he held,
he worked tirelessly to make life bet-
ter for everyone around him.
At the age of 41, Dr. Moss became the
first African-American staffer in the
South Carolina congressional delega-
tion and one of the few in Congress as
a whole. He served as a field represent-
ative for U.S. Sen. Strom Thurmond
for 30 years, during which he was a
strong voice for education, civil right,
and social justice.
Dr. Moss has been recognized through
countless awards and honors, including
the NAACP Freedom Fighter Award,
the United States Senate Loyal Service
Award, and the Order of the Palmetto.
His legacy lives on today through the
Thomas Moss Civic Leadership Award,
through the portion of Highway 301 in
Orangeburg that bears his name, and
through the hearts of every South Car-
olinian whose life he helped improve.
Dr. Moss’s integrity, dedication, and
commitment should serve to inspire us
all, even today. He will not soon be for-
gotten, and I am certain our State will
benefit from his labors and accomplish-
ments for years to come.∑
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09SE6.018 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5359
September 9, 2019
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
In executive session the Presiding Of-
ficer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
and withdrawals which were referred to
the appropriate committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on August 2, 2019,
during the adjournment of the Senate,
received a message from the House of
Representatives announcing that the
House agreed to the amendment of the
Senate to the bill (H.R. 3253) to provide
for certain extensions with respect to
the Medicaid program under title XIX
of the Social Security Act, and for
other purposes.
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on August 9, 2019,
during the adjournment of the Senate,
received a message from the House of
Representatives announcing that the
Speaker had signed the following en-
rolled bill:
H.R. 540. An act to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
770 Ayrault Road in Fairport, New York, as
the ‘‘Louise and Bob Slaughter Post Office’’.
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the en-
rolled bill was signed on August 13,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, by the Acting President pro
tempore (Mr. ROUNDS).
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on August 13,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, received a message from the
House of Representatives announcing
that the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
BROWN) had signed the following en-
rolled bills:
H.R. 639. An act to amend section 327 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act to clarify that Na-
tional Urban Search and Rescue Response
System task forces may include Federal em-
ployees.
H.R. 776. An act to amend the Public
Health Service Act to reauthorize the Emer-
gency Medical Services for Children pro-
gram.
H.R. 828. An act to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
25 Route 111 in Smithtown, New York, as the
‘‘Congressman Bill Carney Post Office’’.
H.R. 829. An act to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
1450 Montauk Highway in Mastic, New York,
as the ‘‘Army Specialist Thomas J. Wilwerth
Post Office Building’’.
H.R. 1079. An act to require the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget to
issue guidance on electronic consent forms,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 1198. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 404 South Boulder Highway in Henderson,
Nevada, as the ‘‘Henderson Veterans Memo-
rial Post Office Building’’.
H.R. 1250. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 11158 Highway 146 North in Hardin, Texas,
as the ‘‘Lucas Lowe Memorial Post Office’’.
H.R. 1449. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 3033 203rd Street in Olympia Fields, Illi-
nois, as the ‘‘Captain Robert L. Martin Post
Office’’.
H.R. 2336. An act to amend title 11, United
States Code, with respect to the definition of
‘‘family farmer’’.
H.R. 2938. An act to exempt from the cal-
culation of monthly income certain benefits
paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs
and the Department of Defense.
H.R. 3245. An act to transfer a bridge over
the Wabash River to the New Harmony River
Bridge Authority and the New Harmony and
Wabash River Bridge Authority, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 3304. An act to exempt from an addi-
tional 4-year period, from the application of
the means-test presumption of abuse under
chapter 7, qualifying members of reserve
components of the Armed Forces and mem-
bers of the National Guard who, after Sep-
tember 11, 2001, are called to active duty or
to perform a homeland defense activity for
not less than 90 days.
H.R. 3305. An act to designate the facility
of the United States Postal Service located
at 2509 George Mason Drive in Virginia
Beach, Virginia, as the ‘‘Ryan Keith Cox
Post Office Building’’.
H.R. 3311. An act to amend chapter 11 of
title 11, United States Code, to address reor-
ganization of small businesses, and for other
purposes.
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the en-
rolled bills were signed on August 13,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, by the Acting President pro
tempore (Mr. ROUNDS).
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 3:02 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bill, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 3352. An act to provide for certain au-
thorities of the Department of State, and for
other purposes.
The message also announced that the
House has agreed to the following con-
current resolution, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H. Con. Res. 57. Concurrent resolution au-
thorizing the use of Emancipation Hall for
an event to commemorate the 400th anniver-
sary of the arrival of the first African slaves
to the territory that would become the
United States.
The message further announced that
pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 2702, and the
order of the House of January 3, 2019,
the Speaker reappoints the following
individual on the part of the House of
Representative to the Advisory Com-
mittee on the Records of Congress: Mr.
John A. Lawrence of Washington, DC.
The message also announced that
pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 3003, and the
order of the House of January 3, 2019,
the Speaker appoints the following
Members on the part of the House of
Representatives to the Commission on
Security and Cooperation in Europe:
Mr. COHEN of Tennessee, Mr. CLEAVER
of Missouri, Ms. MOORE of Wisconsin,
Mr. VEASEY of Texas, Mr. WILSON of
South Carolina, Mr. ADERHOLT of Ala-
bama, Mr. HUDSON of North Carolina,
and Mr. FITZPATRICK of Pennsylvania.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bill was read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 3352. An act to provide for certain au-
thorities of the Department of State, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES DURING
ADJOURNMENT
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of August 1, 2019, the fol-
lowing reports of committees were sub-
mitted on August 16, 2019:
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, without
amendment:
H.R. 1138. A bill to reauthorize the West
Valley demonstration project, and for other
purposes (Rept. No. 116–69).
S. 143 A bill to authorize the Department
of Energy to conduct collaborative research
with the Department of Veterans Affairs in
order to improve healthcare services for vet-
erans in the United States, and for other pur-
poses (Rept. No. 161–70).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, with an
amendment:
S. 174. A bill to provide for the establish-
ment of a pilot program to identify security
vulnerabilities of certain entities in the en-
ergy sector (Rept. No. 116–71).
S. 520. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish an energy efficiency ma-
terials pilot program (Rept. No. 116–72).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, without
amendment:
S. 816. A bill to amend the Natural Gas Act
to expedite approval of exports of small vol-
umes of natural gas, and for other purposes
(Rept. No. 116–73).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute:
S. 1052. A bill to authorize the Office of
Fossil Energy to develop advanced separa-
tion technologies for the extraction and re-
covery of rare earth elements and minerals
from coal and coal byproducts, and for other
purposes (Rept. No. 116–74).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, with an
amendment:
S. 1064. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to conduct a study on the national
security implications of building ethane and
other natural-gas-liquids-related petro-
chemical infrastructure in the United
States, and for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–
75).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE6.003 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5360 September 9, 2019
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, without
amendment:
S. 1286. A bill to amend the Energy Policy
Act of 2005 to facilitate the commercializa-
tion of energy and related technologies de-
veloped at Department of Energy facilities
with promising commercial potential (Rept.
No. 116–76).
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
without amendment:
S. 494. A bill to establish the American
Fisheries Advisory Committee to assist in
the awarding of fisheries research and devel-
opment grants, and for other purposes (Rept.
No. 116–77).
S. 737. A bill to direct the National Science
Foundation to support STEM education re-
search focused on early childhood (Rept. No.
116–78).
By Mr. GRAHAM, from the Committee on
the Judiciary, with an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute:
S. 1494. A bill to amend the William Wil-
berforce Trafficking Victims Protection Re-
authorization Act of 2008 to protect alien mi-
nors and to amend the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act to end abuse of the asylum sys-
tem and establish refugee application and
processing centers outside the United States,
and for other purposes.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. HOEVEN, from the Committee on
Indian Affairs, without amendment:
S. 1207. A bill to approve the settlement of
the water rights claims of the Navajo Nation
in Utah, and for other purposes (Rept. No.
116–0979).
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. CAS-
SIDY):
S. 2443. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to provide for investment in to-
morrow’s pediatric health care workforce; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. SCHUMER (for himself, Mr.
LEAHY, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, and Mrs.
SHAHEEN):
S. 2444. A bill to establish a minimum
staffing level of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection officers along the northern bor-
der, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Mr. MERKLEY:
S. 2445. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to impose a surtax on cor-
porations with significant disparities in em-
ployee wages; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr.
PAUL, Mr. BROWN, and Mr. WICKER):
S. 2446. A bill to provide certain coverage
of audiologist services under the Medicare
program, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. 2447. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish or designate the Distrib-
uted Energy Opportunity Board to carry out
a program to facilitate a voluntary stream-
lined processes for local permitting of dis-
tributed renewable energy, energy storage,
and electric vehicle charging systems, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself and
Mr. ALEXANDER):
S. 2448. A bill to control the export of elec-
tronic waste in order to ensure that such
waste does not become the source of counter-
feit goods that may reenter military and ci-
vilian electronics supply chains in the
United States, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
By Mr. CARDIN:
S.J. Res. 53. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval under chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule
submitted by the Environmental Protection
Agency relating to ‘‘Repeal of the Clean
Power Plan; Emission Guidelines for Green-
house Gas Emissions From Existing Electric
Utility Generating Units; Revisions to Emis-
sion Guidelines Implementing Regulations’’;
to the Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 66
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) and the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 66, a bill to regulate as-
sault weapons, to ensure that the right
to keep and bear arms is not unlimited,
and for other purposes.
S. 120
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
120, a bill to protect victims of stalking
from gun violence.
S. 172
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
172, a bill to delay the reimposition of
the annual fee on health insurance pro-
viders until after 2021.
S. 203
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. CASSIDY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 203, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to permanently
extend the railroad track maintenance
credit, and for other purposes.
S. 225
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN) and the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. CARDIN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 225, a bill to provide for
partnerships among State and local
governments, regional entities, and the
private sector to preserve, conserve,
and enhance the visitor experience at
nationally significant battlefields of
the American Revolution, War of 1812,
and Civil War, and for other purposes.
S. 253
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 253, a bill to coordinate
the provision of energy retrofitting as-
sistance to schools.
S. 296
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII of the
Social Security Act to ensure more
timely access to home health services
for Medicare beneficiaries under the
Medicare program.
S. 402
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 402, a bill to plan, de-
velop, and make recommendations to
increase access to sexual assault ex-
aminations for survivors by holding
hospitals accountable and supporting
the providers that serve them.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
433, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve home
health payment reforms under the
Medicare program.
S. 447
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 447, a bill to regulate large ca-
pacity ammunition feeding devices.
S. 460
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 460, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the ex-
clusion for employer-provided edu-
cation assistance to employer pay-
ments of student loans.
S. 569
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 569, a bill to direct the
Secretary of Transportation to issue
regulations relating to commercial
motor vehicle drivers under the age of
21, and for other purposes.
S. 578
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as
a cosponsor of S. 578, a bill to amend
title II of the Social Security Act to
eliminate the five-month waiting pe-
riod for disability insurance benefits
under such title for individuals with
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
S. 628
At the request of Mr. KING, the name
of the Senator from Alaska (Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor of S.
628, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to include biomass
heating appliances for tax credits
available for energy-efficient building
property and energy property.
S. 633
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 633, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal to the members of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE6.007 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5361
September 9, 2019
the Women’s Army Corps who were as-
signed to the 6888th Central Postal Di-
rectory Battalion, known as the ‘‘Six
Triple Eight’’.
S. 636
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 636, a bill to designate Ven-
ezuela under section 244 of the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act to permit
nationals of Venezuela to be eligible
for temporary protected status under
such section.
S. 651
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 651, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to increase the
age requirement with respect to eligi-
bility for qualified ABLE programs.
S. 668
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. BURR) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 668, a bill to amend title XVIII
of the Social Security Act to waive co-
insurance under Medicare for
colorectal cancer screening tests, re-
gardless of whether therapeutic inter-
vention is required during the screen-
ing.
S. 684
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 684, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the ex-
cise tax on high-cost employer-spon-
sored health coverage.
S. 696
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
names of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) and the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 696, a bill to
designate the same individual serving
as the Chief Nurse Officer of the Public
Health Service as the National Nurse
for Public Health.
S. 758
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 758, a bill to ensure affordable
abortion coverage and care for every
woman, and for other purposes.
S. 851
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) and the Senator from Illi-
nois (Mr. DURBIN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 851, a bill to direct the
Secretary of Labor to issue an occupa-
tional safety and health standard that
requires covered employers within the
health care and social service indus-
tries to develop and implement a com-
prehensive workplace violence preven-
tion plan, and for other purposes.
S. 875
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) and the Senator from
Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) were added
as cosponsors of S. 875, a bill to provide
for the reporting to State and local law
enforcement authorities of cases in
which the national instant criminal
background check system indicates
that a firearm has been sought to be
acquired by a prohibited person, so
that authorities may pursue criminal
charges under State law, and to ensure
that the Department of Justice reports
to Congress on prosecutions secured
against prohibited persons who at-
tempt to acquire a firearm.
S. 901
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 901, a bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to support individuals
with younger onset Alzheimer’s dis-
ease.
S. 966
At the request of Mr. BENNET, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
966, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to modernize the
physician self-referral prohibitions to
promote care coordination in the
merit-based incentive payment system
and to facilitate physician practice
participation in alternative payment
models under the Medicare program,
and for other purposes.
S. 1007
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES), the Senator from Michi-
gan (Ms. STABENOW) and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1007, a bill to amend
the Horse Protection Act to designate
additional unlawful acts under the Act,
strengthen penalties for violations of
the Act, improve Department of Agri-
culture enforcement of the Act, and for
other purposes.
S. 1048
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1048, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to provide
for a Reducing Youth Use of E–Ciga-
rettes Initiative.
S. 1068
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1068, a bill to secure the Federal
voting rights of persons when released
from incarceration.
S. 1122
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1122, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to revise and
extend projects relating to children
and to provide access to school-based
comprehensive mental health pro-
grams.
S. 1141
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1141, a bill to provide predictability and
certainty in the tax law, create jobs,
and encourage investment.
S. 1163
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) and the Senator from Alas-
ka (Ms. MURKOWSKI) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1163, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to pro-
vide for an exclusion for assistance pro-
vided to participants in certain veteri-
nary student loan repayment or for-
giveness programs.
S. 1253
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) and the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mr. WICKER) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1253, a bill to apply re-
quirements relating to delivery sales of
cigarettes to delivery sales of elec-
tronic nicotine delivery systems, and
for other purposes.
S. 1254
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
names of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) and the Senator from
Kansas (Mr. MORAN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1254, a bill to require the
Secretary of Transportation to review
and report on certain laws, safety
measures, and technologies relating to
the illegal passing of school buses, and
for other purposes.
S. 1261
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1261, a bill to provide for
the establishment of Medicare part E
public health plans, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1263
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1263, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to establish
an interagency task force on the use of
public lands to provide medical treat-
ment and therapy to veterans through
outdoor recreation.
S. 1279
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) and the Senator from
North Dakota (Mr. CRAMER) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1279, a bill to reau-
thorize mandatory funding programs
for historically Black colleges and uni-
versities and other minority-serving
institutions.
S. 1309
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1309, a bill to identify and combat cor-
ruption in countries, to establish a
tiered system of countries with respect
to levels of corruption by their govern-
ments and their efforts to combat such
corruption, and to assess United States
assistance to designated countries in
order to advance anti-corruption ef-
forts in those countries and better
serve United States taxpayers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE6.011 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5362 September 9, 2019
S. 1365
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1365, a bill to provide emergency
assistance to States, territories, Tribal
nations, and local areas affected by the
opioid epidemic and to make financial
assistance available to States, terri-
tories, Tribal nations, local areas, and
public or private nonprofit entities to
provide for the development, organiza-
tion, coordination, and operation of
more effective and cost efficient sys-
tems for the delivery of essential serv-
ices to individuals with substance use
disorder and their families.
S. 1391
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1391, a bill to require re-
porting regarding certain drug price in-
creases, and for other purposes.
S. 1395
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1395, a bill to amend title
18, United States Code, to prohibit the
purchase of certain firearms by indi-
viduals under 21 years of age, and for
other purposes.
S. 1487
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1487, a bill to amend the
Clean Air Act to create a national zero-
emission vehicle standard, and for
other purposes.
S. 1499
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1499, a bill to establish
National Wildlife Corridors to provide
for the protection and restoration of
certain native fish, wildlife, and plant
species, and for other purposes.
S. 1572
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1572, a bill to amend the
Higher Education Act of 1965 to require
additional reporting on crime and
harm that occurs during student par-
ticipation in programs of study abroad,
and for other purposes.
S. 1575
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1575, a bill to direct the Secretary
of State to make available to the Di-
rector of the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention copies of consular
reports of death of United States citi-
zens, and for other purposes.
S. 1590
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1590, a bill to amend the State Depart-
ment Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to
authorize rewards for thwarting wild-
life trafficking linked to transnational
organized crime, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1659
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1659, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to provide
for the participation of pediatric sub-
specialists in the National Health Serv-
ice Corps program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1660
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1660, a bill to provide
greater support for grandfamilies and
older caretaker relatives.
S. 1689
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
1689, a bill to permit States to transfer
certain funds from the clean water re-
volving fund of a State to the drinking
water revolving fund of the State in
certain circumstances, and for other
purposes.
S. 1728
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. BRAUN) and the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1728, a bill to require the
United States Postal Service to sell the
Alzheimer’s semipostal stamp for 6 ad-
ditional years.
S. 1777
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1777, a bill to amend the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 to include in the
Annual Country Reports on Human
Rights Practices a section on conflict-
related sexual and gender-based vio-
lence, to amend the Global Magnitsky
Human Rights Accountability Act to
authorize the President to impose eco-
nomic sanctions and a visa ban on the
leader of an organization that commits
sexual or gender-based violence.
S. 1781
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1781, a bill to authorize
appropriations for the Department of
State for fiscal years 2020 through 2022
to provide assistance to El Salvador,
Guatemala, and Honduras through bi-
lateral compacts to increase protection
of women and children in their homes
and communities and reduce female
homicides, domestic violence, and sex-
ual assault.
S. 1792
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) and the Senator
from Maryland (Mr. CARDIN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1792, a bill to
require the Secretary of Labor to
maintain a publicly available list of all
employers that relocate a call center
or contract call center work overseas,
to make such companies ineligible for
Federal grants or guaranteed loans,
and to require disclosure of the phys-
ical location of business agents engag-
ing in customer service communica-
tions, and for other purposes.
S. 1801
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1801, a bill to ensure medications
are affordable.
S. 1822
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
names of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS), the Senator from Geor-
gia (Mr. PERDUE), the Senator from
Washington (Mrs. MURRAY), the Sen-
ator from Ohio (Mr. BROWN) and the
Senator from Maryland (Mr. CARDIN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1822, a
bill to require the Federal Communica-
tions Commission to issue rules relat-
ing to the collection of data with re-
spect to the availability of broadband
services, and for other purposes.
S. 1838
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN), the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
Maine (Ms. COLLINS) and the Senator
from Delaware (Mr. COONS) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1838, a bill to amend
the Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992, and
for other purposes.
S. 1850
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Hawaii
(Ms. HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1850, a bill to direct the Federal
Trade Commission to prescribe rules to
protect consumers from unfair and de-
ceptive acts and practices in connec-
tion with primary and secondary ticket
sales, and for other purposes.
S. 1965
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1965, a bill to authorize actions with re-
spect to foreign countries engaged in
illicit trade in tobacco products or
their precursors, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1982
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr.
SCHATZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1982, a bill to improve efforts to combat
marine debris, and for other purposes.
S. 1983
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1983, a bill to authorize
the Attorney General to make grants
to, and enter into cooperative agree-
ments with, States and units of local
government to develop, implement, or
expand 1 or more programs to provide
medication-assisted treatment to indi-
viduals who have opioid use disorder
and are incarcerated within the juris-
dictions of the States or units of local
government.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE6.013 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5363
September 9, 2019
S. 2001
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2001, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to Willie
O’Ree, in recognition of his extraor-
dinary contributions and commitment
to hockey, inclusion, and recreational
opportunity.
S. 2024
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) and the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. CARDIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2024, a bill to amend
the Higher Education Act of 1965 to im-
prove the American History for Free-
dom grant program.
S. 2043
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the names of the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) and the Sen-
ator from New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ)
were added as cosponsors of S. 2043, a
bill to provide incentives for hate
crime reporting, provide grants for
State-run hate crime hotlines, and es-
tablish alternative sentencing for indi-
viduals convicted under the Matthew
Shephard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate
Crimes Prevention Act.
S. 2054
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
names of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. KAINE), the Senator from Illinois
(Ms. DUCKWORTH), the Senator from
North Carolina (Mr. TILLIS) and the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. PERDUE)
were added as cosponsors of S. 2054, a
bill to posthumously award the Con-
gressional Gold Medal, collectively, to
Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods, J. Chris-
topher Stevens, and Sean Smith, in
recognition of their contributions to
the Nation.
S. 2083
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2083, a bill to amend chap-
ter 2205 of title 36, United States Code,
to ensure pay equity for amateur ath-
letes, and for other purposes.
S. 2085
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
names of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
ROBERTS) and the Senator from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. CASEY) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2085, a bill to authorize
the Secretary of Education to award
grants to eligible entities to carry out
educational programs about the Holo-
caust, and for other purposes.
S. 2108
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2108, a bill to amend section 6903 of
title 31, United States Code, to provide
for additional population tiers, and for
other purposes.
S. 2137
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2137, a bill to promote en-
ergy savings in residential buildings
and industry, and for other purposes.
S. 2179
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. BRAUN), the Senator from Kansas
(Mr. ROBERTS), the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) and the Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY)
were added as cosponsors of S. 2179, a
bill to amend the Older Americans Act
of 1965 to provide social service agen-
cies with the resources to provide serv-
ices to meet the urgent needs of Holo-
caust survivors to age in place with
dignity, comfort, security, and quality
of life.
S. 2203
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET), the Senator from Lou-
isiana (Mr. CASSIDY), the Senator from
California (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) and the
Senator from New Hampshire (Ms. HAS-
SAN) were added as cosponsors of S.
2203, a bill to extend the transfer of
Electronic Travel Authorization Sys-
tem fees from the Travel Promotion
Fund to the Corporation for Travel
Promotion (Brand USA) through fiscal
year 2027, and for other purposes.
S. 2224
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the names of the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. LEAHY) and the Senator
from Iowa (Mr. GRASSLEY) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2224, a bill to amend
section 214(c)(8) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act to modify the data
reporting requirements relating to
nonimmigrant employees, and for
other purposes.
S. 2250
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2250, a bill to amend the
Higher Education Act of 1965 to estab-
lish State and Indian tribe grants for
community colleges and grants for His-
torically Black Colleges and Univer-
sities, Tribal Colleges and Universities,
and Minority-Serving Institutions, and
for other purposes.
S. 2293
At the request of Mr. CRAMER, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
ROBERTS) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2293, a bill to extend the authority of
the Export-Import Bank of the United
States and to modify the quorum re-
quirement of the Bank, and for other
purposes.
S. 2327
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2327, a bill to amend title
38, United States Code, to modify the
eligibility requirements for transfer of
unused entitlement to Post-9/11 Edu-
cational Assistance, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2353
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2353, a bill to direct the Administrator
of the Federal Emergency Management
Agency to develop guidance for fire-
fighters and other emergency response
personnel on best practices to protect
them from exposure to PFAS and to
limit and prevent the release of PFAS
into the environment, and for other
purposes.
S. 2379
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
names of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. THUNE) and the Senator from
Idaho (Mr. RISCH) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2379, a bill to amend title
XIX of the Social Security Act to clar-
ify the authority of State Medicaid
fraud and abuse control units to inves-
tigate and prosecute cases of Medicaid
patient abuse and neglect in any set-
ting, and for other purposes.
S. 2390
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2390, a bill to prohibit the imposi-
tion of the death penalty for any viola-
tion of Federal law, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2412
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2412, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to provide cov-
erage of addiction counselor services
under part B of the Medicare program.
S. 2413
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2413, a bill to exclude the imposi-
tion of duties and import quotas from
the authorities provided to the Presi-
dent under the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act.
S. RES. 252
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 252, a resolution designating Sep-
tember 2019 as National Democracy
Month as a time to reflect on the con-
tributions of the system of government
of the United States to a more free and
stable world.
S. RES. 267
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 267, a resolution rec-
ognizing the September 11th National
Memorial Trail as an important trail
and greenway all individuals should
enjoy in honor of the heroes of Sep-
tember 11th.
S. RES. 277
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 277, a resolution re-
membering the 25th Anniversary of the
bombing of the Argentine Israelite Mu-
tual Association (AMIA) Jewish Com-
munity Center in Buenos Aires, Argen-
tina, and recommitting to efforts to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE6.015 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5364 September 9, 2019
uphold justice for the 85 victims of the
attacks.
S. RES. 303
At the request of Mr. HAWLEY, the
names of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. WARNER), the Senator from South
Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS), the Senator from
Indiana (Mr. BRAUN) and the Senator
from Maryland (Mr. CARDIN) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 303, a
resolution calling upon the leadership
of the Government of the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea to dis-
mantle its kwan-li-so political prison
labor camp system, and for other pur-
poses.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. SCHUMER (for himself,
Mr. LEAHY, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
and Mrs. SHAHEEN):
S. 2444. A bill to establish a minimum
staffing level of U.S. Customs and Bor-
der Protection officers along the north-
ern border, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2444
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLES.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Border Offi-
cers Utilization for National Defense Act of
2019’’ or the ‘‘BOUND Act’’.
SEC. 2. MINIMUM U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER
PROTECTION STAFFING ALONG THE
NORTHERN BORDER.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Beginning on the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Commissioner
of U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall
ensure that not fewer than the maximum
number of U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion officers deployed along the inter-
national border between the United States
and Canada (referred to in this Act as the
‘‘northern border’’) at any time between Jan-
uary 1, 2016 and the date of the enactment of
this Act are always deployed along the
northern border, including ports of entry
along the northern border.
(b) LIMITATION ON TRANSFERS.—The Com-
missioner of U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection may not transfer any U.S. Customs
and Border Protection officer away from an
assignment along the northern border if such
transfer would reduce the number of such of-
ficers assigned to the northern border below
the level required under subsection (a).
By Mr. REED (for himself and
Mr. CASSIDY):
S. 2443. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to provide for in-
vestment in tomorrow’s pediatric
health care workforce; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I am
pleased to be introducing the Invest-
ment in Tomorrow’s Pediatric Work-
force Act with Senator CASSIDY. This
critical legislation would provide fund-
ing for the Title VII pediatric sub-
specialty loan repayment program.
The Title VII health professions pro-
grams have a longstanding history of
increasing the supply of health care
professionals, expanding access to care
in rural and urban underserved areas,
and developing a workforce that re-
flects the Nation’s diversity and the
needs of patients. These education and
training programs guide current and
aspiring health professionals to high-
demand careers in areas of greatest
need. Pediatric subspecialty care is one
such shortage area.
According to the American Associa-
tion of Child and Adolescent Psychi-
atry, there are currently only 8,300
child and adolescent psychiatrists
(CAPs) in the United States—many of
whom are not practicing full time—far
short of the estimated need of over
30,000 CAPs. On average, patients wait
almost two months to see a CAP, a
startling concern given that the inci-
dence rates of mental illness and be-
havioral disorders among children in
the United States continue to grow.
Fifty percent of all lifetime cases of
mental illness begin at age 14; seventy-
five percent by age 24.
This legislation would take an impor-
tant first step in incentivizing more
health care professionals to go into pe-
diatric subspecialties and increase the
supply of these professionals to ensure
more children have greater access to
the health care they need. I look for-
ward to working with stakeholders
supporting the legislation including
the American Academy of Pediatrics,
the American Association of Child and
Adolescent Psychiatry, the Arthritis
Foundation, the American College of
Rheumatology, and the Child Neu-
rology Society, as well as my col-
league, Senator CASSIDY, to pass the
Investment in Tomorrow’s Pediatric
Workforce Act, and to strengthen all of
the Title VII health professions pro-
grams.
f
AUTHORIZING THE USE OF EMAN-
CIPATION HALL FOR AN EVENT
TO COMMEMORATE THE 400TH
ANNIVERSARY OF THE ARRIVAL
OF THE FIRST AFRICAN SLAVES
TO THE TERRITORY THAT
WOULD BECOME THE UNITED
STATES
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H. Con. Res. 57, which was re-
ceived from the House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tion by title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 57)
authorizing the use of Emancipation Hall for
an event to commemorate the 400th anniver-
sary of the arrival of the first African slaves
to the territory that would become the
United States.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the con-
current resolution be agreed to and the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The concurrent resolution (H. Con.
Res. 57) was agreed to.
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 10, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Tuesday, Sep-
tember 10; further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Craft nomination under
the previous order. Finally, I ask unan-
imous consent that the Senate recess
following the cloture vote on the Dar-
ling nomination until 2:15 p.m. to allow
for the weekly conference meetings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order, following the remarks
of Senator GARDNER.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Colorado.
f
BLM HEADQUARTERS RELOCATION
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, of
course, the Senate is back in session
after the August work period, where all
of us were able to go home—and in the
case of Colorado, go corner to corner—
to visit with constituents, to have
meetings, to talk about those issues
that are concerning to the people of
Colorado and what we can do to help
provide solutions to the greatest chal-
lenges they see in their lives, their
businesses, and in their State.
It really is a remarkable time to go
through such an incredible and beau-
tiful State. In Colorado and in the
West, we are blessed with amazing
beauty and splendor. Our public lands
are one of the smartest ideas this gov-
ernment has ever created over the 200-
plus years of our Nation’s history.
To spend time in Southwestern Colo-
rado, down by Mesa Verde National
Park, over by Larimer County and
Rocky Mountain National Park, to be
on the Eastern Plains of Colorado, to
visit places like the Sand Creek Mas-
sacre site, to reflect on what that dark
chapter in our American history
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE6.016 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5365
September 9, 2019
meant, to look at what we are trying
to do to include Amache, the Japanese-
American internment site, into our Na-
tional Park Service, it really is a
chance to reflect on the greatness of
our country.
This is a State that is composed of
almost 50 percent public lands, a sig-
nificant number of acres that are con-
trolled, owned, and managed by the
State of Colorado and, of course, a vast
amount of acres controlled and oper-
ated by the Federal Government—
whether that is the U.S. Forest Service
or the Bureau of Land Management or
the National Park Service.
It is the Bureau of Land Management
that brings me to the floor of the Sen-
ate tonight.
Prior to our departure for the August
work period, an announcement was
made from the Secretary of the Depart-
ment of the Interior that the head-
quarters of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement would finally be moving west
and indeed would be moving to Grand
Junction, CO.
The Bureau of Land Management
manages roughly 250 million acres of
surface lands and surface area in our
country, and almost all of it—over 99
percent—is west of the Mississippi
River. You can see the land that is
highlighted in red here. Some of this
land is just mineral rights and not sur-
face land, but over here the vast
amount of acreage is all surface land—
some 245-some million acres of land, 99
percent of which is west of the Mis-
sissippi River.
The idea we have been pursuing is
that the public lands are managed bet-
ter when you manage them from with-
in the communities that those public
lands surround. In the case of Grand
Junction, CO, the Bureau of Land Man-
agement—almost 73 percent of Mesa
County, in which Grand Junction re-
sides, is public land. Why not make the
decisions facing these millions of acres
of public lands in the West, where the
lands reside, instead of thousands of
miles removed in Washington, DC?
Moving the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment headquarters closer in proximity
to the land it oversees and regulates
makes sense. It is common sense—two
things we don’t hear very often in
Washington.
Moving the BLM is a priority I have
been working on for a number of years,
going back to an Energy and Natural
Resources Committee hearing with
Neil Kornze, then the Director of the
Bureau of Land Management under
President Obama. It was a hearing
where almost every county commis-
sioner in the West had objected to a
regulation that the BLM was pursuing,
and yet the BLM continued to pursue
it.
I remember being frustrated in this
hearing and finally saying to Director
Kornze: If you were just located in the
West, if you just had your BLM offices
in the West, your headquarters, you
would understand why this is a bad
idea.
At the time, he kind of laughed and
said: Well, we should think about that.
Do you know what? We did, and I am
pretty excited to say that in just a cou-
ple of weeks, we will be signing the
lease for new office space in Grand
Junction to house the headquarters of
the Bureau of Land Management.
This is not—and I think this is im-
portant because this seems to get lost
in the day-to-day shuffle of media cov-
erage. This is not a partisan issue. This
is not a Republican-driven idea or a
Democratic-driven idea. This is a bi-
partisan approach that has been em-
braced by leaders on both sides of the
aisle.
Democratic Colorado Governor Jared
Polis in July said of moving the Bu-
reau of Land Management to Grand
Junction that ‘‘we are thrilled to wel-
come the Bureau of Land Management
and their employees to the great state
of Colorado. As I stated to Secretary
Bernhardt many times, Grand Junction
is the perfect location for the BLM be-
cause of the community support, (its)
location closer to the land BLM man-
ages and the positive impact it will
have on our western Colorado econ-
omy.’’
That wasn’t a Republican who said
that. That was the Democratic Gov-
ernor of the State of Colorado embrac-
ing the move of the headquarters of
BLM. In fact, we had both Republicans
and Democrats cosponsoring legisla-
tion I introduced in the Senate and
Congressman TIPTON introduced in the
House to legislatively move the head-
quarters of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement to the West and now in Colo-
rado.
Unfortunately, we are starting to
hear some partisan debate, though,
creep into this incredibly important
move. What we are seeing in Wash-
ington, of course, are Washington
Democrats trying to stop the process.
In the news, we read about Washington
bureaucrats who are opposed to the
move, but it is important to realize
that this decision is not about the bu-
reaucrats; it is about the job we are
doing to represent our public lands.
This is an agency that doesn’t just
work for each other. It is an agency
that works for the people of this coun-
try and to do the best job they can rep-
resenting and managing our public
lands, the public lands they are
charged to manage and to protect. Why
wouldn’t you do that job from where
the public lands reside?
Moving the headquarters to the West
will improve support. It will improve
engagement. It will improve oversight.
It will improve collaboration with
western Governors whose States, in
some cases, are overwhelmingly domi-
nated by public lands. It will improve
relationships with State and local
elected officials. It will improve rela-
tionships and management decisions
and will work with the Tribes and Trib-
al officials and sports men and women
and ranchers and grazers and farmers
and recreationalists and energy users.
It will also save States in western
communities thousands of dollars in
travel expenses. Imagine, if you live in
Colorado and Western Colorado, that
you no longer have to fly thousands of
miles to Washington, DC; that you
don’t have to buy an expensive round-
trip airplane ticket, spend the night at
an expensive hotel, buy an expensive
meal at an expensive restaurant. You
get to travel, drive, or fly—a very short
trip—to Western Colorado, with great
air service and great interstate access.
You don’t have to pay for a Washington
hotel or a Washington meal. These are
things you can do when the BLM is ac-
tually located where 99 percent of the
land they represent resides.
Under the Department of the Inte-
rior’s proposal, every western State
will get additional staff. Two hundred
ninety-six current Washington posi-
tions will be moved to locations
throughout the West. From Alaska to
Arizona, California, Idaho, Montana,
the Dakotas, Nevada, New Mexico, Or-
egon, Washington, Utah, and Wyoming,
all will receive new staff out of Wash-
ington, DC, and onto the public lands
they represent, that they oversee.
For those of us who are routinely in
Washington, we will still be able to get
information immediately and meet
with officials from the Bureau of Land
Management. The Deputy Director of
Policy and Programs will continue to
be located in Washington, along with 60
other positions that are responsible for
budgetary items, legislative affairs,
regulatory affairs, and public affairs.
They will still be here. So it is not like
Washington will all of a sudden have no
one to call or no one answering their
calls. It is a little bit absurd. It talks
a little bit about the lack of hubris
that government has, to think that
only Washington knows best and only
Washington can lead, to think that you
can’t manage these lands from where
they are.
This will improve the management of
our public lands, and BLM employees
will see benefits as well. The cost of
living for BLM employees who move
from Washington to a State office will
be considerably lower. That will result
in a significant increase back into
their pocketbooks.
Leasing costs are also worth raising
when we talk about the BLM head-
quarters. The BLM compared leasing
space for 27 staffers in Washington
versus the leasing space available in
Grand Junction, CO. The difference is
$50 per square foot in Washington
versus just over $32 per square foot in
Grand Junction.
If you think about what that means,
it is a significant savings. You think
about what it means for travel and the
cost to taxpayers of travel expenses for
BLM employees. According to the De-
partment, in fiscal year 2018, BLM em-
ployee travel from Washington to the
West was more than $37.2 million.
There is no question that these re-
sources could have been better spent on
State offices and field offices that have
been starving for resources for years.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09SE6.022 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5366 September 9, 2019
In its own analysis, the Department
of Interior projects that the total cost
over 20 years for the Bureau of Land
Management’s headquarters relocation
and relocations to other Western
States will have a net savings—get
this—of over $123 million. Not only will
we have better decision making and
not only will the leadership of an agen-
cy that is the largest holder of public
lands and manager of public lands in
the country be located finally in the
lands they oversee, with better deci-
sions coming as a result, but we are
going to save $123 million. It is a com-
monsense move designed to save tax-
payer money, and management deci-
sions will be better by the fact that
these lands are now in their front yard,
instead of thousands of miles away,
bringing these decisions closer to the
American people.
The only reason to oppose this move
is if you don’t care about the people of
the Western United States or you don’t
think somehow that the people in the
Western United States are smart
enough to figure out how to run public
lands or manage public lands or maybe
you don’t think that Colorado is up to
the task of being the headquarters of
the BLM because apparently you don’t
trust the people in the West. There is
no other reason to oppose this. This is
common sense.
Colorado is already home to signifi-
cant portions of the USGS. Colorado is
already home to NORTHCOM and
NORAD. In fact, just today the new
space command, the United States
Space Command, stood up in Colorado
Springs at Peterson Air Force Base.
Yet, somehow, there are people—Wash-
ington Democrats—who don’t think
Colorado can handle the management
of our public lands. It is offensive—it
really is—to think that there are peo-
ple in Washington who think that only
Washington can do this job. It is
wrong.
We should stand up against that kind
of, I guess, idea that only Washington
can do something and fight back
against that mentality. Colorado is
home to significant EPA offices, the
National Institute of Standards and
Technology, significant resources of
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, and the Rocky Moun-
tain Regional Office of the U.S. Patent
and Trademark office. All are in Colo-
rado. With so many acres of public
lands, yes, we can manage public lands,
and, yes, Colorado should be the gate-
way to our public lands in this great
country and to all of the wonderful ac-
cess opportunities that means to our
economy, to recreation, to conserva-
tion.
Ask any one of the thousands of Fed-
eral Government employees currently
living in Colorado if they believe we
can do this, and the answer is a re-
sounding yes. Only in Washington do
they think it is only Washington that
can do the job.
Washington bureaucrats and Wash-
ington Democrats can oppose Colorado
all they want, but I believe in Colo-
rado. I believe in our ability to manage
these public lands better than they
have ever been managed before. I be-
lieve this is the best place in the Na-
tion to manage our public lands and to
house and headquarter the Bureau of
Land Management. As a result, we will
have a cleaner and better environment,
more conservation opportunities, and a
greater public lands economy as a re-
sult.
I am excited about this future. The
people of Grand Junction are excited
about this future. It is far time that we
now have a little bit less Washington
and a lot more Colorado common sense.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN). The Senator from Ohio.
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNIZING DAYTON, OHIO,
POLICE OFFICERS
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, today
six police officers from the Dayton Po-
lice Department were awarded our Na-
tion’s highest honor for law enforce-
ment. These were the six individuals
who stood tall at 1 a.m. on August 4, in
Dayton, OH, standing up to a shooter,
engaging him within 30 seconds of the
tragedy beginning. Nine people had al-
ready died. Another 27 were injured. By
standing up to him and doing it so
quickly and responding so effectively,
they saved so many lives.
They put their lives in danger be-
cause they were standing between the
shooter and innocent civilians who
were out that evening, having a cele-
bration, enjoying themselves, not
imagining this horror could be com-
mitted. These six individuals were well
trained. As Chief Rick Biehl of the
Dayton Police Department has told
me—and he is a friend of mine—the
training worked, and he is right. It was
more than just training. It was in-
stinct. It was heart. It was their will-
ingness to step up as soon as they saw
the danger and run into the danger, lit-
erally.
President Trump today awarded the
highest honor to these individuals.
When he did so, he said: ‘‘The light
from these intrepid souls defies the
darkness and confronted the most sin-
ister danger.’’
Well said.
Sergeant William Knight and Officers
Vincent Carter, David Denlinger, Ryan
Nabel, Brian Rolfes, and Jeremy Camp-
bell deserve the gratitude of all of us
for stepping into the breach.
Tonight I will have the opportunity
to be with them on this floor. They are
going to come see the world’s greatest
deliberative body. I know that every-
one in the Senate joins me in express-
ing our gratitude to them for the work
they do every single day to protect all
of us and for their extraordinary brav-
ery that horrible night. We thank
them, and we say God bless them for
what they do.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
f
REVIVING AMERICA’S SCENIC
BYWAYS ACT
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
now proceed to the immediate consid-
eration of Calendar No. 116, S. 349.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 349) to require the Secretary of
Transportation to request nominations for,
and make determinations regarding, roads to
be designated under the national scenic by-
ways program, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Environment and Public Works,
with an amendment to strike all after
the enacting clause and insert in lieu
thereof the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Reviving Amer-
ica’s Scenic Byways Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. NATIONAL SCENIC BYWAYS PROGRAM.
(a) REQUEST FOR NOMINATIONS.—Not later
than 90 days after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall issue
a request for nominations with respect to roads
to be designated under the national scenic by-
ways program, as described in section 162(a) of
title 23, United States Code. The Secretary shall
make the request for nominations available on
the appropriate website of the Department of
Transportation.
(b) DESIGNATION DETERMINATIONS.—Not later
than 1 year after the date on which the request
for nominations required under subsection (a) is
issued, the Secretary shall make publicly avail-
able on the appropriate website of the Depart-
ment of Transportation a list specifying the
roads, nominated pursuant to such request, to
be designated under the national scenic byways
program.
Mr. PORTMAN. I ask unanimous
consent that the committee-reported
substitute amendment be agreed to and
that the bill, as amended, be considered
read the third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported amendment
in the nature of a substitute was
agreed to.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
Mr. PORTMAN. I know of no further
debate on the bill, as amended.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
If not, the bill having been read the
third time, the question is, Shall the
bill pass?
The bill (S. 349), as amended, was
passed.
Mr. PORTMAN. I ask unanimous
consent that the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09SE6.023 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5367
September 9, 2019
PERMITTING STATES TO TRANS-
FER CERTAIN FUNDS FROM THE
CLEAN WATER REVOLVING FUND
OF A STATE TO THE DRINKING
WATER REVOLVING FUND OF
THE STATE IN CERTAIN CIR-
CUMSTANCES
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 125, S. 1689.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 1689) to permit States to transfer
certain funds from the clean water revolving
fund of a State to the drinking water revolv-
ing fund of the State in certain cir-
cumstances, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill, which
had been reported from the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
Mr. PORTMAN. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be considered read
a third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
Mr. PORTMAN. I know of no further
debate on the bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
If not, the bill having been read the
third time, the question is, Shall the
bill pass?
The bill (S. 1689) was passed, as fol-
lows:
S. 1689
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. TRANSFER AUTHORITY.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) lead is a toxic chemical that—
(A) is particularly harmful to young chil-
dren; and
(B) can cause reduced intelligence
quotients, attention disorders, and other se-
rious health problems;
(2) excessive and harmful levels of lead
have been found in water systems across all
50 States and those water systems serve
drinking water to millions of people in the
United States;
(3) hundreds of the water systems described
in paragraph (2) are water systems that pro-
vide drinking water to schools or day care
centers;
(4) not all States have sufficient funds in
the drinking water revolving fund of that
State to address the threat to public health
from heightened exposure to lead in drinking
water; and
(5) some States have available funds in the
clean water revolving fund of that State that
could be used to provide additional resources
to help address lead in drinking water.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CLEAN WATER REVOLVING FUND.—The
term ‘‘clean water revolving fund’’ means a
State water pollution control revolving fund
established under title VI of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1381
et seq.).
(2) DRINKING WATER REVOLVING FUND.—The
term ‘‘drinking water revolving fund’’ means
a State drinking water treatment revolving
loan fund established under section 1452 of
the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–
12).
(c) AUTHORITY.—In addition to the transfer
authority in section 302(a) of the Safe Drink-
ing Water Act Amendments of 1996 (42 U.S.C.
300j–12 note; Public Law 104–182), and not-
withstanding section 1452(d) of the Safe
Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–12(d)),
during the 1-year period beginning on the
date of enactment of this Act, if a State, in
consultation with the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency, deter-
mines that available funds in the clean water
revolving fund of the State are necessary to
address a threat to public health as a result
of heightened exposure to lead in drinking
water, the State may transfer an amount
equal to not more than 5 percent of the cu-
mulative clean water revolving fund Federal
grant dollars to the State to the drinking
water revolving fund of the State. Funds
transferred pursuant to this subsection shall
be used by the State to provide additional
subsidy to eligible recipients in the form of
forgiveness of principal, negative interest
loans, or grants (or any combination of
these).
Mr. PORTMAN. I ask unanimous
consent that the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
REVIVING AMERICA’S SCENIC
BYWAYS ACT OF 2019
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public
Works be discharged from further con-
sideration of H.R. 831 and the Senate
proceed to its immediate consider-
ation.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 831) to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to request nominations for
and make determinations regarding roads to
be designated under the national scenic by-
ways program, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. PORTMAN. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be considered read
a third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill was ordered to a third read-
ing and was read the third time.
Mr. PORTMAN. I know of no further
debate on the bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
If not, the bill having been read the
third time, the question is, Shall the
bill pass?
The bill (H.R. 831) was passed.
Mr. PORTMAN. I ask unanimous
consent that the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. PORTMAN. I yield back my
time.
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 10 a.m. tomorrow
morning.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 6:38 p.m.,
adjourned until Tuesday, September 10,
2019, at 10 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
BARBARA MCCONNELL BARRETT, OF ARIZONA, TO BE
SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE, VICE HEATHER WILSON,
RESIGNED.
RYAN MCCARTHY, OF ILLINOIS, TO BE SECRETARY OF
THE ARMY, VICE MARK T. ESPER, RESIGNED.
ROBERT JOHN SANDER, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE GENERAL
COUNSEL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY, VICE
PAUL LUIS OOSTBURG SANZ.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SANDRA E. CLARK, OF MARYLAND, A CAREER MEMBER
OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MINISTER-
COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO BURKINA FASO.
KELLY C. DEGNAN, OF CALIFORNIA, A CAREER MEM-
BER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MIN-
ISTER-COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO GEORGIA.
PETER M. HAYMOND, OF VIRGINIA, A CAREER MEMBER
OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MINISTER-
COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO THE LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC.
THE JUDICIARY
RAHKEL BOUCHET, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, TO
BE AN ASSOCIATE JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA FOR THE TERM OF FIFTEEN
YEARS, VICE JOHN RAMSEY JOHNSON, RETIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
OWEN MCCURDY CYPHER, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE UNITED
STATES MARSHAL FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF
MICHIGAN FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE ROBERT
MAYNARD GRUBBS, TERM EXPIRED.
DAVID M. DEVILLERS, OF OHIO, TO BE UNITED STATES
ATTORNEY FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO FOR
THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE CARTER M. STEWART,
RESIGNED.
THE JUDICIARY
JODI W. DISHMAN, OF OKLAHOMA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT
OF OKLAHOMA, VICE VICKI MILES-LAGRANGE, RETIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
THOMAS L. LEONARD III, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE UNITED
STATES ATTORNEY FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF
MICHIGAN FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE PAT-
RICK A. MILES, JR., TERM EXPIRED.
THE JUDICIARY
KAREN SPENCER MARSTON, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, VICE LEGROME D . DAVIS,
RETIRED.
STEVEN J. MENASHI, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT, VICE
DENNIS G. JACOBS, RETIRED.
RICHARD EARNEST MYERS II, OF NORTH CAROLINA, TO
BE UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA, VICE MALCOLM J. HOW-
ARD, RETIRED.
SARAH E. PITLYK, OF MISSOURI, TO BE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MIS-
SOURI, VICE CATHERINE D. PERRY, RETIRED.
ANURAAG SINGHAL, OF FLORIDA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF FLORIDA, VICE JAMES I. COHN, RETIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
RALPH IGNATIUS SOZIO, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED
STATES MARSHAL FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF
NEW YORK FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE MI-
CHAEL GRECO, TERM EXPIRED.
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
BRIG. GEN. TIMOTHY D. HAUGH
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G09SE6.025 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5368 September 9, 2019
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. MICHAEL A. MINIHAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. SCOTT A. KINDSVATER
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN
THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be brigadier general
COL. STEPHANIE A. PURGERSON
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED WHILE SERVING AS SURGEON
GENERAL OF THE NAVY UNDER TITLE 10 U.S.C., SECTION
8077:
To be rear admiral
REAR ADM. BRUCE L. GILLINGHAM
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
VICE ADM. DAVID M. KRIETE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
VICE ADM. STUART B. MUNSCH
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 531 AND 716:
To be major
ANDREW KIM
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be major
CATHERINE A. LANE
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL SPECIALIST CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTIONS 624 AND 7064:
To be lieutenant colonel
NICHOLAS D. BARRINGER
SCOTT C. BENSON
NICOLAS D. BRADLEY
ERIN E. DRIVER
MELISSA D. FOLSOM
MAUREEN R. GIORIO
EDWIN X. GUTIERREZ
DANIEL J. HANKES
JAMES A. HART
ALEXANDRA HICKMAN
CARRIE W. HOPPES
JONATHAN D. LESHER
RYAN P. MCGILL
SHANNON L. MERKLE
JOHN J. PENA
MATTHEW W. PERKINS
JOSHUA H. SHEHAN
TIMOTHY M. SKINNER
LAURIS R. TRIMBLE
PATRICK S. WALSH
JOSHUA D. WALTERS
HAROLD YU
D012819
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
VETERINARY CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS
624 AND 7064:
ERIN E. BALL
JOCELIN S. BLAKE
JAMIE C. BROWN
AMANDA C. CHRISTY
JAMES G. COISMAN
SARAH A. COOPER
JUSTIN C. DEVANNA
PATRICK J. GRIMM
RICHARD KELLY III
MARC G. KNOBBE
AMANDA MCGUIRE
JESSICA L. MOREHOUSE
SARA B. MULLANEY
ROBERT PAUL
JONATHAN SHEARER
SUZANNE C. SKERRETT
EMILEE C. VENN
D012821
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL SERVICE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SEC-
TIONS 624 AND 7064:
To be lieutenant colonel
LOVIE L. ABRAHAM
KIMBERLY D. ALSTON
JASON E. ANDERSON
SCOTT M. ANDERSON
LISA ARGO
DAVID L. ARMESON
JASON B. BAUMGARTNER
JANET K. BELTON
CARLA A. BERGER
WILLIAM S. BOSLEY
BRUCE W. BROWN
KARA M. CAVE
OLEGARIO COSS, JR.
DANIEL T. COULTER
MICHAEL J. CRIVELLO
BRAD T. CUNNINGHAM
NIKKI L. DAVIS
DAVID W. DEGROOT
ERICA L. DORTCH
GLORIA J. ELKO
GINGER C. EMIG
DANIEL P. ERWIN
OSCEOLA M. EVANS
CHRISTOPHER E. EVERETT
DWAN E. FIGUEROA
DANNY R. GARRETT
CARRIE L. GRAVES
FRANK W. GROVER
SARA J. HARMON
CHRISTOPHER L. HATCHER
JENNY R. HAYES
MICHAEL B. HENRY
JEREMY R. HERSHFIELD
PAUL HESTER
JASON L. HIPPS
SHAUNTA HOLLINGSWORTH
ADRIAN R. JOHNSON
SHEILA M. JOHNSON
MARK C. JONES
RICCO A. JONES
ERICA L. KANE
HEE KIM
JOHN T. LAVOIE
CALEB J. LAZARRE
SUMMER A. MOORE
QUI T. NGUY
GABRIELA L. NIESS
AARON NORTHUP
STEVEN M. OLIVER
DANIEL J. ONEILL
VICTORIA H. M. OSHEA
TAJUDEEN O. OTTUN
CHRISTOPHER M. PAINE
PRINCESS P. PALACIOS
LES S. PATTERSON
MARCUS D. PERKINS
MATTHEW PIERCE
DONYA D. QUMAD
IGNACIO L. REMOLINA
THOMAS B. REZENTES, JR.
CHRISTOPHER W. RICHELDERFER
ELIEZEL RIVERA
LESLIE W. ROBERSON
OWEN L. ROBERTS
ERIN C. ROBINSON
BENJAMIN M. ROWE
ANN M. RUDICK
SUMESH SAGAR
JOHNNY W. SANDERS
KEVIN R. SCHUSTER
KELLY G. SEIBER
PATRICE E. SHANAHAN
ANTHONY T. SHIEPKO, JR.
DOUGLAS R. SHOTTON, JR.
LEON K. SMITH
WALTER J. SOWDEN
CHRISTOPHER D. SPLICHAL
JONATHAN D. STALLINGS
MARTHA M. STEWART
DEBRA M. STONE
SIMON J. STRATING
JOSHUA G. SUTHERS
JOSEPH R. TAYLOR
DONNA J. TERRELL
MATTHEW L. TILLMAN
KRISTINE TOWNSEND
CRISTA M. WAGNER
JOSEPH W. WALKER
MICHAEL T. WALKINGSTICK
DORIAN A. WALTON
LAURA L. WANG
ELIZABETH W. WANJA
MICHAEL A. WASHINGTON
JASON R. WEIR
MICHAEL D. WOOD
RENEE E. ZMIJSKI
D014502
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
NURSE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 624 AND
7064:
To be lieutenant colonel
MARLENE ARIASREYNOSO
KARA J. BARR
CARL D. BARRINGTON
ROSEMARY E. BAUGH
PRETORIA BENSON
LANA J. BERNAT
RACHEL B. BLANTON
BRIAN J. BOLTON
ELIZABETH M. BOWLES
BIENVENIDA BRITO
JOHN E. BUONORA
MARIE E. CARMONA
EDNAESTHER P. CAUSAPIN
EBONY C. CHATMAN
TAMMY M. CHILDS
SUZANNE W. COBLEIGH
CHRISTINE J. CONNER
WILLIAM CORONA
JANALE A. DALUZ
CHARLENE B. DAVIS
LEILANI R. DAVIS
JASMINE L. DEDE
BENARD N. DELOACH
KEITH J. DENNENY
ELIZABETH A. DICAMPLI
JEFFREY D. DOMINGUEZ
MARLYN ECHEVARRIA
EMILIANA ESCUETA
MARIANN R. FARK
RUSSELL T. FIELDS
KIRK C. GILES
KRISTY L. GOULD
FAITH E. GRZESIK
PATRICIA R. HALLSTEVENS
PATRICIA A. HODSON
JASMINE D. HOGAN
ELIZABETH N. HOLSHOUSER
DEANNA M. HUTCHINGS
LISA M. JENKINS
MICHELLE D. JOHNSON
BRIAN M. JOHNSTON
IMSHIN O. KIM
CAPRICE B. KNIGHTJOHNSON
KRISTA L. LABBE
STACEY D. LENT
AMANDA B. LOVE
BRITTANY J. LOZIER
TONYA M. MADDOX
LOUIS M. MAGYAR
BEATRIZ MARTINEZ
KEISHA A. MCDANIEL
ALLISON L. MCGLASSON
VERONICA B. MCMORRIS
SHEILA A. MEDINA
MICHAEL P. MEISSEL
FERNANDO M. MENDEZ
SONIA MONTIEL
GWENDOLYN A. OKEEFE
MICHELLE L. ONEILL
JULIE Y. PARK
SAMUEL PEREZ
JASMINE C. PETERSON
JOHN R. REED
DEREK S. REYNOLDS
REGINA D. RIEGER
GERARDO C. RIVERA
JOHNNIE R. ROBBINS
SAMUEL SAMA
REGINA Y. SANDERS
VERONICA S. SANDERSON
DEBORAH E. SARTORI
SEAN W. SHAMLIAN
STEPHEN A. SHEETS
ROBERT J. SHIPLEY
JASON D. SIMMONS
GLENN C. SIMPSON
JEFFREY D. SMITH
SIMEON G. SMITH
ELLA M. STALLINGS
ROBERT C. STRICKLAND
MICHAEL J. SWANHART
AUDRY M. TORRES
MARCIA L. TURLEY
MARVA F. TURNIER
JOANA UNDERWOOD
ALENKA G. VALE
CHRISTINA L. VANCLEEF
JACK C. VANLUYN
MAYJOYCE A. VERTIDO
LARRY L. WHEAT
JEAN L. WILLIAMS
RACHEAL L. WOOD
LAMIN YARBO
KEVIN M. ZEEB
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
VETERINARY CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS
624 AND 7064:
To be major
BRITTANY B. BEAVIS
JESSICA L. BOWDEN
JAMIE R. CASE
THOMAS S. COTRONE
TINIE C. CYIN
BENJAMIN C. DIXON
KATHRYN M. DORSEY
CLARENCE C. DUCUMMON III
RANDAL S. DUDIS
KELSEY R. FIDDES
SARAH A. M. FISHER
MEAGHAN N. GLOWACKI
HAILEY E. HARROUNWHITE
ROBERT F. HOLLY
KELLY M. HORGAN
AMANDA L. JEFFRIES
RACHEL E. LAWRENCE
JENNIFER E. LEFORS
MILES P. LOOMANNELSON
KRISTINE M. MOSS
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A09SE6.019 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5369
September 9, 2019
JULIE D. PACK
MARK A. RYAN
KATHERINE L. SCOTT
RYAN R. SITTON
KENNETH L. STRAWN
SARAH B. SULKOSKY
KATHERINE A. WEBER
LEAH M. WILLESS
CANDACE E. WIMBISH
RAYMOND K. WONG
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL SPECIALIST CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTIONS 624 AND 7064:
To be major
RAYMOND J. AKERMAN, JR.
LUCAS M. ALLMON
ROBERT L. ANDRADE
CHARLOTTE D. ANDREWS
TIMOTHY W. ATKINS
CHRISTOPHER M. BARBER
ALBERT R. BASSETT
JEREMIAH D. BECK
JOELLE I. BLACK
ROBERT D. BLUME
LUCY A. BOWEN
CHRISTOPHER J. BREWER
JEREMY F. BROOKS
MICHAEL A. BROUSSARD
DANIEL R. BROWN
JOSEPH M. BROWN
LARRY D. BROWN
BRANDI L. BURKE
ROY R. A. CAMACHO
COREY R. CAMPBELL
ASHLEY R. CARLSON
DAVID M. CHAVEZ
JOEL D. DAVIS
MICHAEL A. DAWSON, JR.
TREVOR G. DELL
CHASTITY F. DEROO
GONZALO DETABOADA
MATTHEW J. DOWER
BRADLEY N. DUNSON
RONALD S. DUNSTON
CHRISTOPHER M. ECKLUND
FERNANDO G. EGUILUZ
ROBERT D. FINN
SHAMEICE K. FISCHER
JASON A. FORSTER
STEPHANIE C. FOURNIER
SCOTT D. FOWLER
ROBIN E. GODDARD
KELLY A. GUERRA
JAMES A. GUERRERO
KEITH D. HARRIS
ALISHA D. HARVEY
JASON M. HENNING
AMANDA D. HENSLEY
GREGORY S. ILES
BENJAMIN D. INGRAM
JEFFREY H. IRWIN
OMAR D. JACK
LEE J. JIN
SHAUN K. JOHNSON
SCOTT A. KAVAN
CHELSEA J. KERSTEN
TAREK M. KHALIL
ADAM J. KIEFFER
ANGELICA C. KJONNEROD
JOSHUA T. KNUDSEN
MICHAEL J. KONETSKY
STEVEN T. KOVACH
CODY N. LARSON
COURTNEY D. LEGENDRE
DENISE M. LEWIS
AARON K. LORENSON
DANIEL L. MACKEY
LORI W. MAGGIONI
DAVID P. MANLEY
AMBER M. MARKS
LINDSEY S. MASDEU
KAWIKA A. MASKELL
MICHAEL K. MCCAFFRIE
JARED M. MCGOWEN
JEREMY A. MCGUFFEY
RYAN A. MCMAHON
STEVEN D. MOCK
TRACY L. MOREL
MANSURU MUSTAPHA
LORENZO E. NAVARROFIGUEROA
JASON L. NEWMAN
ROBERT A. OLIVER
MICHELLE R. OLSEN
MIGUEL A. ORDONEZ
ANDREW P. OTTO
CHEYENNE C. PATEL
TIMOTHY B. PEKARI
TAMMY L. PRICE
SAMUEL A. ROCKER
JILL A. ROGERS
PATRICK B. ROSE
ALEC E. ROSS
ERIC A. ROSS
ROLAND F. SALAZAR
ALLISON D. SANCHEZ
KARLA J. SANCHEZ
LUAR SANDOVAL
BRITAIN L. SEABURN
JENNIFER N. A. SMITH
BRIANNA M. STARTZELLNUNEZ
CHELSEA L. TERSAVICH
JORDAN L. THORNBURG
NATHANIEL J. TURNER
LINDSEY A. UMLAUF
DAVID J. WALKER
ASHLEY M. WELSH
HYUN J. YI
DANIEL Y. YOON
MELISSA P. YOUNG
D012876
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL SERVICE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SEC-
TIONS 624 AND 7064:
To be major
SARAH H. AFRIECQ
CHRISTINE A. ARGUEZAPRINCE
MONICA ARUWAH
ANTHONY D. ASHER
ELISABETH M. BAILEY
CHRISTOPHER A. BAISA
MICHAEL A. BAISA
THOMAS R. BARTH
AARON M. BERG
HAROLD P. BOWLIN
ALLISON J. BRAGER
JEROD A. BRAMMER
ANDREW D. BRESSLER
MATTHEW R. BRODOCK
KATHRYN L. BUCKLAND
SARAH B. BUEHLER
FAREN A. CAMPBELL
WILLIAM R. CAPP II
EDWARD A. CASTRO
JASON CHA
AMBER L. CHILSON
TODD R. CHRISTENSEN
UYEN B. T. CHU
DIANA J. CHUNG
GRANT M. CLAASSEN
GRAHAM S. CLARK
MATTHEW R. T. CLARK
MELISA S. COKER
RENEE N. COMBS
WHITNEY S. CUMBER
BLAIR C. R. DANCY
JENNIFER D. DANGERFIELD
TAMMY S. DANIELS
DERRICK A. DAVIS, JR.
MATTHEW L. DAVIS
ARTURO P. DIAZ
KENT C. DIAZ
KATIE S. DOYLE
TIMOTHY D. DREYER
DARNELL A. DURRAH, JR.
JENNIFER M. EALY
JOSHUA D. ECENRODE
CASSANDRA M. ELLINGTON
SUZANNA F. ENDSLEY
ALEXSANDRA FAJARDO
ANTONIO G. FIGUEROA
CRESPO S. S. FLORES
CHRISTOPHER S. FOSTER
THIERRY L. FOUAPONASSEDINJATOU
COURTNEY C. FOX
JAIME L. FRAHM
MATTHEW G. FRICKEY
RYAN H. FRITZ
PATRICK G. FRUGE
JULIE A. FULTON
KYLE C. FURFARI
KRISTAN D. GALLIMORE
THOMAS M. GILBREATH
OSCAR I. GONZALEZ
DAVID P. GOODMAN
DAVID N. GOUGH
JASON A. GRIFFIN
GINA L. GRIFFITH
LAURAIN C. HACKETT
CHRISTOPHER L. HARRISON
JOHN W. HAWKINS
RODNEY T. HAYWARD
CHRISTINE R. HAYWOOD
PATRICK E. HENSEL
DAVID A. HERMANN
DEBBIE HERNANDEZ
PATRICIA K. HERNDON
DAWN V. HERRON
ZURI N. HILDRETH
GREGORY B. HOLMES
MATTHEW J. HOPKINS
JERLINE HSIN
CHRISTINE E. HULSEBERG
KATHERINE C. JACKSON
LYNNEA K. JENSEN
JONATHAN E. JORDAN
MINGZOHN E. KALAND
DAVID K. KEELIN
JASON J. KIDD
DENNIS KIM
REINALYN K. KING
STEVEN R. KLEIN
SEAN M. KLUCKMAN
JOHN T. KOEHLER
GARRETT W. KUIPERS
DANIEL M. LAWINDY
FERMINA L. LAYNEZ
JANGWOO LEE
YINGTA B. LEE
JAMES K. LEHMAN
COREY J. LESTER
XAVIER A. LOMBARDO
KEITH L. MARSHALL, JR.
SUZANNE E. MATE
JAMES J. MATTSON
JOHN K. MCCRACKEN
VANESSA E. MEDINA
JORSHUA M. MELO
RODNEY C. MERKLEY
JACQUELYN M. MESSENGER
TASHINA L. MILLER
CHRISTOPHER D. MOE
NICOLE L. MOORE
BRYAN D. MORRIS
MELISA E. NATAPRAYA
CHRISTINE U. NAUTSCHER
MITCHELL NAZARIO
CASEY R. NELSON
LEWIS NICOLETTO
AJUS K. NINAN
ADAM J. OBREGON
TIMOTHY D. OCAMB
NDUBUISI R. OKOLO
BRANDON L. PANIAGUA
JASON A. PARSONS
FOREST T. PAVEL
WALTER P. PEEPLES
JAIME A. PERALES
MATTHEW W. PERRY
RYAN A. PETERS
ELAINE D. POR
DANIELLA M. PREECE
MARK W. PRESTON
LISA K. QUIROZ
ADRIANA L. RAMOS
SANTIAGO RESTREPO
MICHAEL A. ROBERTS
ASHLEY C. RODRIGUEZ
CHRISTOPHER RODRIGUEZ
KHALID R. RODRIGUEZ
YASMINE M. ROSE
LARRY L. ROYER, JR.
JANET D. RUSH
SARAH S. SANJAKDAR
DANIEL S. SAULS
KAYLA G. SCHAFFIELD
DAVARIUS T. SHARPE
NATHANIEL P. SHEEHAN
MICHAEL S. SIEGERT
JULIE L. SKILES
JAMES T. SMITH
PATRICK J. SMITH
TREY A. SMITH
CODY D. SNEED
ALISA N. SNYDER
MAURICIO E. SOLIS
ELIZABETH K. SOSA
LANCE J. SPIELMANN
SARAH H. STEGER
JACQUEL L. STEVENS
JULIAN M. STEWART
JUSTIN L. STEWART
CHRISTINA C. SWINTON
ADAM J. SZABAT
TRAVIS G. TAGGART
ANDREW R. TAYLOR
KIMBERLYN M. TRUESDELL
BRIAN F. TURNER
TAMEKA L. TUTT
ALAN J. VAUGHN
GISELA A. VELAZQUEZ
ISSAEL VELEZ
BRIAN A. VESELY
TROY D. WAITE
BRANDON N. WATTIES
RONALD C. WEAVER, JR.
TRAVIS D. WEAVER
SAMUEL WEBER
JASON R. WEST
MARK J. WHITE
LEA M. WIGGINS
LAWRENCE A. WILLIAMS
KATHRYN A. WILLISON
GARY T. WILSON
BROOKE E. WIRTZ
CLIFFORD C. WONG
MATTHEW H. WOODS
KATHRYN A. WUERTZ
JOSHUA M. YORK
DANIELLE B. ZSIDO
D014498
D014706
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
NURSE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 624 AND
7064:
To be major
BRENDA J. ADAMS
AKUNNA K. AKURUKA
WESLEY B. ALBRITTON
KAITLYN I. ALFORD
BRANDON T. ALLEN
SHAWN P. ASHPOLE
STACEY L. ATKINSON
TREY N. BAKER
AMANDA M. BALLARD
CHRISTEN M. BARNHILL
MICHAEL S. BARRY
ELIZABETH G. BERENDS
STEPHEN R. BERTSCH
HANNA M. BETTS
CHELSIE L. BLACK
ALLAN A. BOLIDO
BRADLEY J. BORGKVIST
HANS J. BREITBACH
MOLLY J. BRIED
AMEERA R. BROOKS
MARJORIE K. BROOKS
ANGELYN M. BROWN
JENNIFER L. BRYANT
NICKI J. BURTCHER
JONATHAN L. CAMERON
KATHERINE E. CAMPBELL
ROBERT D. CARTER
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A09SE6.022 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5370 September 9, 2019
STEPHEN V. CATTALO
CORENE E. CAVANAGH
FADZAI CHIWANDAMIRA
MOLLIE F. CHRISTIANSEN
MICHAEL L. CLEVELAND
CHRISTMAS L. COLLOM
JENNIFER R. CORLEY
ALICIA M. DECKER
LAJUANA M. DIXON
ASHLEY N. DRAUGHON
GINA L. EBERHARDT
ROBERT J. EDWARDS
NICOLE A. EVANS
BRANDON D. FAIRCLOTH
ANTHONY R. FEDERICO
DENNIS M. FLYNN
THOMAS G. FRANZEN
SIERRA L. FREAS
GRANT J. GAINSLEY
JOSETTE M. GAMBA
KIMBERLY A. GANNOTT
ERIN T. GARVEY
CARLOS GONZALEZ
DANIEL M. HACKER
SISAY HAILEMARIAM
ANDREW L. HARER
ALEX A. HERNANDEZVARGAS
DANIELLE M. HEWITT
KIMBERLY C. HICKS
MITCHELL A. HODGES
NICOLE B. IOSET
ETHELYN L. JACKSON
JACOB P. JAMES
CHANGHOON JEON
REBECCA A. JOHNSON
AMANDA C. JOHNSTON
LEILA T. JOINT
TONIA A. JORDAN
JANE J. Y. JU
ERIN M. KANG
LISA L. KASPER
EMIRI KATAHARA
BRIAN J. KELLER
CATHERINE M. KENNER
REBECCA F. KENT
RYAN KIM
DAVID C. KOSAKOWSKI
VINCENT E. KRAUSE
LACHISH J. LATIMER
SUZANNE E. LAUX
ERIKA D. LAY
JEREMIAH T. LEAMING
SEPHRA A. LEGER
DANIEL H. LISTER
EMILY J. LUGDON
NICHOLAS J. MAFFEY
IGOR MATIC
JOSEPH A. MATTHEWS
MELISSA A. MCKINNEY
ELLEN B. MCKOWN
LUCY C. MCNAMEE
LESLIE A. MEYERS
JOLI E. MIRACLE
MARKETTA K. MOORE
CHANDLER H. MOSER
NILES S. MOTSCHENBACHER
GERMAINE M. NICHOLSON
DEBORAH M. NURSE
OLABOWALE A. OLAIGBE
JOSHUA D. ORSZAG
MELANIE P. OWES
KATHERINE M. PERRY
CAMERON J. PLAYER
SETH A. RANDALL
EMILY O. RAYMOND
MEGAN L. REGLIN
WENDY J. REYNOLDS
GUS F. RHOADES
JENNIFER L. RICHARDS
KESHA C. RILEY
JAMES R. RISSLER
DAVID W. ROBINSON
OSWALDO X. ROMERO
ERIKA J. ROSALES
ASHLEY L. SALAZAR
LAUREN L. SALMOND
JAYME L. SCHAAF
JOHN F. D. SCHUMACHER
RAKIEMA T. SELLARSPOMPEY
ARTINSIA M. SHAKIR
SAMUEL A. SMITH
BRANDI M. SPENCER
RACHEL E. STANFILL
THOMAS W. STEWART
STEPHANIE L. H. STREET
JUNE H. STRUDER
JIHYUN SUH
CHRISTINA B. TEREHOFF
BRIAN L. THOMPSON
KATHERINE L. TRAN
GRACE T. TUA
MONIQUE R. VANCE
SONYA E. VARGO
YOANIA VAZQUEZ
REGINA N. VELASCO
MIGUEL VERGARA
TIMOTHY G. VERREAULT
KENNETH D. WADSWORTH
MATTHEW A. WATSON
CHARISHLYN T. WEINTRAUB
APRIL R. WILKINS
SHEILA M. WILLIAMSON
ANNE M. WILSON
SHINGO J. YAMADA
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY DENTAL CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTIONS 531 AND 7064:
To be major
SLAVA SHAPIRO
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY MEDICAL CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S. C.,
SECTIONS 531 AND 7064:
To be major
RACHEL M. ROMAINE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR ARMY
NURSE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 531 AND
7064:
To be major
KRISTY M. CHESTER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY DENTAL CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTIONS 531 AND 7064:
To be major
KEVIN D. DALLING
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
JAY G. SULLIVAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT TO
THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be colonel
BRIAN S. BORAKOVE
JEFFREY R. CREE
JAY T. DEASON
MICHAEL L. GIBSON
JAMES H. HANKINS, JR.
ERIC B. HOGANCAMP
CHRISTOPHER J. MARTINDALE
DOUGLAS L. MIKKELSEN
LAWRENCE M. MUENNICH
JAMES K. PERRIN, JR.
LUCAS B. RICE
CRAIG M. ROBINSON
KEITH A. ROBINSON
PHILIP T. TENNANT
RICHARD B. TYLICKI
MICHAEL S. WATERMAN
MATHEW D. WILKINSON
TRACIANNA L. WINSTON
COLBY B. WYATT
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL SERVICE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SEC-
TIONS 624 AND 7064:
To be lieutenant colonel
JAVIER TREVINO
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 531 AND
716:
To be major
BRENDAN B. REINA
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 624
AND 7064:
To be major
BENJAMIN A. GREIF
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
SLADE A. MCPHERSON
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
EDUARDO B. AMORA
ADAM E. BAYER
KRISTIAN L. CARLSON
DAVID D. DOWNEY
CHRISTOPHER R. GRADY
JASON R. HART
JOSHUA W. HICKMAN
WILKING JEAN
KLINT A. JOHNSON
BRIAN J. KIRSCHENBAUM
JONATHON R. MALONEY
DAVID R. MARTIN
MARIO K. MURPHY
JASON D. OWEN
DAVID A. PETERSON
JASON T. PORTER
PAUL B. RODGERS
KEITH A. RUSSELL
JASON J. SHAW
DAVID A. TAMBUR
YONATAN M. WARREN
ROILYNN K. WILLIAMS
GREGORY S. WOODARD
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
JANPAUL P. AMPOSTA
KEITH C. ANDERSON
CHRISTOPHER H. ANSCHUETZ
MATTHEW S. BELLINGTON
DANIEL C. BERMUDEZ
EVAN R. BLOXHAM
THAD R. BRILL, JR.
MARIO D. P. BROOKS
CHRISTOPHER J. BROWN
TARA J. CARNEY
EDUARDO J. CASTELLANOS
CALVIN T. H. CHU
WANDA I. COLON
JACOB C. CRABB
RUSSELL CRUZ
STEPHEN A. CUFF
DESSISLAVA I. DAVIS
JACOB R. DAVIS
AARON B. H. DEANON
JARED R. DEITER
EMMETT L. DELATEUR
ALANNA M. DEVLIN
ALIOUNE S. DIOP
DAVID J. DISANTO
DAVID A. DYAL III
KYLE P. ELLIS
LUIS C. ESCOBAR
MADELEINE FUENTES
JAMI M. GARRETT
JUSTIN C. GAY
JARED L. GIVENS
TRAVIS M. C. GRAYUM
SHAWN M. GROGAN
CHARLES W. GUIRE
ARASH HAGUE
NAJIB HAMDOUNI
AARON J. HARPEL
BLAKE M. HARPEL
DANIEL S. HATTING
ANDREW C. HEISLER
CRETTE O. HENDRICKS II
IAN A. HENRY
JONATHAN A. HERRICK
JUSTIN N. HIGGINS
ANTHONY L. HINDS
DANIEL F. HINKLEY
BENTLEY D. HODSDON
BRENT J. HOWELL
JUSTIN M. H. HUNNELL
AMY R. HUTCHINGS
TRACI L. IRBY
ANALEE H. JACQUES
PETER W. JACQUES
JONATHAN L. JOHNSON
PHILLIP C. JONES
JACQUELYN M. L. KETRING
NICHOLAS K. KOVACHEV
STEPHEN B. KOYE
MICHAEL S. KUNG
WINSTON C. LAMB
JOHN F. LOPEZ
DAVID R. MACHINPORRATA
ANTHONY T. MARTINEZ
BROWARD C. MARYAN
ANTHONY F. MEYER
JASON W. MONTGOMERY
JASON R. MORLAN
JOSEPH P. MURPHY
MATTHEW M. NECHAK
JONATHAN M. OKONAK
BRYAN H. ORTIZ
GAMALIER RIVERAFONTAN
ADAM M. ROACH
BRET M. ROBERTS
SAHEED A. SALAMI
GREGORY P. SCEVIOUR
JEFFREY L. SCHOFF
PATRICK C. SHANE
JORDAN T. STEPHENS
JASON L. STORY
PABLO H. SUAREZ
CHRISTINA A. SULLIVAN
TRACY M. THOMPSON
JONATHAN R. TRAVIS
TIMOTHY P. VADALA
RAYMOND VILLANUEVA
TUNG P. T. VU
ERIN C. WALSH
ORLANDO J. WHITE
MICHAEL A. WIESMAN
RICHARD J. WILSON
MICHAEL T. ZAMUDIO
LIN L. ZHENG
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
ASHLEY A. ACLESE
LEONARD N. ARANAS
KENNETH B. ARGONCILLO
MICHELLE BARBA
SAMANTHA L. BARTLE
STEPHANIE A. BEATTY
AMY L. BENE
KATHERINE M. BOEDER
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:13 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A09SE6.023 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5371
September 9, 2019
LAUREN E. BONAIR
DANIELLE M. BRAIOTTA
MEGAN A. CALTAGIRONE
JAMES N. CARTER II
MARIE F. N. CHIONG
KATELIN E. CLARDY
CHRISTOPHER C. CONNELL
CALINA M. CORONADO
ANANDA D. CRAFT
MARK E. CROSS II
CANDYCE M. CURRY
DEVON R. CZARZASTY
LISA S. CZUBERNAT
SHANTEL R. A. DAVIS
SHANNON L. DOUGHERTY
SAMIRA L. DUARTE
SHAUN D. DUNSTON
PATRICK O. EBILI
BURNETTA F. FEARS
ANGELICA M. FINK
MATTHEW D. FITZGERALD
KATELYN A. FOSTER
MOLLY E. FOWLER
SARAH A. FRASURE
TASHA GALLEGOS
ZEBULON D. GAY
AGUSTIN E. GIAMPAOLI
BRANDI L. GIBSON
CHELSEA R. GODFREY
LARRY A. GUNTER II
KARA L. HARPER
KIERSTIN A. M. HAYS
MICHAEL R. HENDRICKS
BRYAN T. HENNEN
MEGAN P. HOLMSTROM
STEPHANIE M. HORIGAN
JESSICA R. HOWELL
KRYSTAL M. HOWELL
RUBY L. JACKSON
BREDA H. JENKINS
AMANDA J. KENNOVIN
AMANDA A. KUELZ
PAUL E. KUHN
EMILY R. LATIMER
TIFFANY LAU
JENNIFER R. LO
SARAH U. LOUK
CLINT G. LUDLOW
EUGENE E. MAMARIL
JESSE J. MCGILL
TIFFANY C. MCGINNIS
KATHRYN A. MILLER
LIZETTEANNE C. MIX
TAMEKA L. MORRIS
SUSAN A. MURPHY
BILLY A. NGUYEN
ANTHONY N. NJOROGE
JULIANNE R. OATES
LISA M. ODRISCOLL
OLUFEMI O. OGUNGBE, JR.
SAMUEL E. ONWUJIOBI
ROBERTA L. OROZCO
ROBIN L. PARKER
URIAH PAUL
CHRISTOPHER G. PAYNE
BRITTANY H. QUINN
ASHLEY J. REIMONENQ
RAFAEL J. RIOS
ANGELA S. ROBINSON
ANGELICA A. M. ROSALES
ERIN R. RYAN
KELLY A. SCOTT
AILEEN D. SIZEMORE
CHAD E. SMITH
LUCY P. STEPHAN
RABEN B. TALVO
STEPHANIE D. THOMAS
KIRRA K. TOBIAS
BRENNDA A. TSUHAKO
CONSTANCE M. TURNER
SHAIN D. VANHORN
LINDSAY A. VISSER
NATHAN E. VOELKEL
AARON N. WASSON
RACHAEL D. WHEELOUS
JADE T. WHITESIDE
ZACHARY K. WHITESIDE
ERIN M. WILLIAMS
SAMINA WILSON
GISSELLE I. ZELSDORF
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
RACHAEL E. BAKER
ROBERT C. BOMBARD
ALLYSON L. BREECH
THOMAS J. BRIGHT
JESSICA H. BUNKERS
SARAH F. BURKETT
DAMON L. BURMAN
MATTHEW J. CARDELLINO
JENNIFER S. CARROLL
TIMOTHY C. CEDER
PHILIP J. CORRIGAN
SHARAI L. ELKO
LEAH M. FONTENOT
JOSHUA D. FOOTE
JONAH A. HEIN
ABIGAIL R. HOLT
JOSEPH P. HORTON
CAITLIN R. HOWITT
JENNIFER L. JOHNSON
JACQUELINE M. JUHN
ANDREA M. KISSNER
ALLISON J. LUZWICK
MEGAN P. MARINOS
LINDSAY I. MCCARL
CATHERINE T. MCMAHON
CHRISTOPHER C. MCMAHON
JOELLE C. PORTZER
ANN V. PREIS
NICHOLAS J. RAUSA
ALVIR A. SADHWANI
FRANK R. SANTAMARIA
JENNIFER H. SCHWARTAU
ANDREW J. SCOTT
JONATHAN F. SILADI
ADAM C. SMITH
KAREN M. SMITH
SPENSER D. SOLIS
VINCENT J. SONSON
LUCIANNA H. STAMPER
SARA J. WOOTEN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
ALEXANDER ALBA
EMMY J. ALEXANDER
LEE A. ALLEMAN
YEKATERINA L. ANDERSON
GEORGE C. ARMAS
JANINE M. BADIC
KYLE M. BANDERMANN
JASON B. BEARD
MICHAEL L. BOWERAHMING
ROBERT B. BOYER
KEVIN C. BROWN
NICKITA M. A. BROWN
MATTHEW L. BUSH
VICTOR M. CAMAYA
RICKY J. CAPERTON, JR.
CHRISTOPHER E. CASTILLO
NATHANIEL C. V. CHRISTY
MATTHEW A. COLTON
SARAH E. COSGROVE
DARREN W. CUTLER
NHU Q. DO
CARL B. DRUHL
MARY C. EHRSAM
ADRIAN I. EVANS
BABABOWALE O. FABUNMI
GABRIEL W. FORREY
PAMELA C. FOSS
JAMES D. FRANKS
DANIEL C. GARCIA
JOSE A. GARCIARIVERA
LAURA N. GAXIOLA
MICHELLE S. GREEN
RICHARD T. J. GREENFIELD
DEREK A. GRESKO
EMILY R. GRULLON
AUSTIN J. HAAG
BRITTANY G. HADEN
JOHN P. HALLAHAN III
FIRDOUS D. HALWANY
ERIC M. HARASIMOWITZ
CHRISTOPHER J. HEATH
JEFFREY C. HEBERT
PHILIP D. HENSLEY, JR.
BRANDON S. HERMANSEN
KEVIN Q. K. HOANG
KENNETH C. HOLIFIELD
JASON G. HSIANG
INGRID W. HUANG
ROHAN A. JAIRAM
SARAH A. JENKINS
MARGARET C. JOHNSON
MICHAEL R. KENNER
RACHEL A. KNIGHT
ANNAELISA P. LACANILAO
TAMMI L. LAWLER
JASON M. LEIDEL
JASON C. D. LEMMA
AMBER A. LENFERT
DAVID W. LESTER
DANIEL L. LOGSDON
CHRISTOPHER LUGO
DANIEL P. LUND
ADRIENNE J. MANASCO
MICHAEL B. MANNING
LARRY MIDDLETON, JR.
RALPH R. MONTGOMERY, JR.
JOSHUA A. MOORE
AUSTIN O. MOWOE
JOSHUA D. MUFFETT
MICHELLE R. NEUROTH
ANDREW M. NEVILLE
SAFIAT O. NEWMAN
KELLY N. NOBLES
MARI K. NUMANOI
YURI N. NYBERG
KEVIN M. OCONNOR
MICHAEL D. ORR
JOSEPH G. PASCETTA
MINDY L. PATURZZIO
MICKENZIE J. PEARSON
RYAN L. PETERSON
MICHAEL A. POLITO, JR.
COURTNEY A. POLLMANTURNER
ERIC A. PORTER
ROY W. QUINN
EMILIANO C. RABOR
SAIMA S. RAZA
ADAM C. REICHOLD
LAURA K. RIEBEL
NICOLA M. A. ROBINSON
ERICK ROMANPEREZ
JESSICA L. SAUNDERS
MICHAEL A. SCHERMER
CHAD R. SCOTT
KAMALAN SELVARAJAH
LINDA D. SHARPE
KYLE H. SHEPARD
RANJAN A. SHIRLEY
ALISON SIEPKER
LAMONT D. SIMMONS
WAYNE G. SIMONDS
WILLIAM E. STERLING
SAMANTHA J. STOPFORD
JOHN L. SULLIVAN
PRINCE K. TAILEY
PAUL R. F. TAN
ROBERT L. TORRISON
HOANG H. H. J. TRAN
JASON C. UNRUH
JAMES R. W. VIANO
MYRA S. WEARING
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
HOLLY K. AGUIGAM
ANTHONY S. B. ALEXANDER
SAMANTHA H. BAHO
KERRY B. BAUMANN
THOMAS W. BETTERBED
SASHA J. BETZ
LAUREN E. BROWN
RYAN W. BUECHELE
ADAM P. BUSSELL
JONATHAN S. CARDON
MEGAN R. CARTER
JORDAN S. CHRISTENSEN
DIANA K. COLE
PAGE L. COLLYMORE
JUDSON A. DACHERSHAPIRO
CATHERINE E. C. DANIEL
IAN J. DAULTON
BLAKE A. DONALDSON
ERIC R. DRAPER
SCOTT L. DUMMETT
KYLE A. EURICK
TRACY R. EVANS
VINCENT J. FERRETTI
JENNA FEWINS
JORDAN T. FREEARK
KRISTOFER S. HARRIS
HENRY B. HEETER
JOHN L. HOLLIDAY
JOHN S. JENISTA
KAELY M. KANTARIS
MATTHEW J. KELLY
YIANNE G. KRITZAS
CANDACE J. LEE
WEI LIU
ASHLEY A. MARTIN
RICHARD A. MCKINNEY
MICHAEL C. MENDOZA
JUSTIN R. MILLER
JARED A. MOBERG
BRYAN R. MULLEN
THIEN T. NGUYEN
JESSICA R. NORRIS
HEIDI M. NOVAK
MICHAEL R. OWEN
ERIC B. OXLEY
KYLE W. RAGSDALE
THOMAS S. RANDALL
THOMAS J. READEL
DAVID J. ROTHWELL
KATHRINA M. SARMIENTO
THAMAR A. SARWAR
CARTER J. SCHMIDT
MATTHEW E. SIMON
STEPHEN E. SMITH
WHITNEY A. SMITH
MICHAEL P. SPOELSTRA
RYAN T. TAKEDA
KYLE M. TANGNEY
JOSEPH R. THOMPSON
ROSS M. UHRICH
ALLISON D. WEINBERG
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
TIMOTHY J. ALGIERS
ELIZABETH J. ALLAN
CHRISTINE L. ANDERSON
ERIK L. ANDERSON
HEATHER ANNIS
ELIZABETH A. AWODELE
MARK J. BALDESHWILER
SHANLEY H. BANAAG
PATRICK M. BARNETT
LAURA D. BARRETT
PETER A. BEALE
JUSTIN L. BECK
ROBERT C. BECKMANN
JOSHUA R. BEER
SARA B. BERNER
ANDREW M. BESSOLO
PATRICK T. BEYER
WILLIAM D. BIANCHI
JEFFREY D. BIBERSTON
EMILY A. BOND
GREGORY J. BOOTH
MICHAEL P. BOWEN
ANTHONY S. BRADLEY, JR.
CHRISTOPHER M. BRAWNER
GARY O. BROWN
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A09SE6.025 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5372 September 9, 2019
KATIE L. BUEL
KATHLEEN A. CANNON
THOMAS E. CAYCE
MEAGAN G. CHAUVIN
KYLE D. CHECCHI
JOHN T. CHECE
BENJAMIN A. CHILDERS
JACQUELINE G. CLERC
JACOB H. COLE
JEANNETTE R. COLLINS
RYAN T. COOPER
MITCHEL F. CORDES
CAMILLE B. COSTANTOTH
THOMAS A. DEAR
JOSEPH D. DECICCO
KRISTIN M. DESANTIS
CHARLOTTE E. DEVORE
TRACEY H. DEYOUNG
LEILANI L. DIMOND
ERIC F. DOMBROSKI
JOHN S. DONOUGHE
ALEXANDER D. DOUDT
SARA M. DRAYER
BRANDON C. D. DUGAR
JAMES P. EARLEY
EMILY J. ELLIOTT
NICHOLAS J. ERDLE
ELIZABETH A. ERNSTSIGNORE
JOSHUA D. EUBANKS
CHRISTOPHER K. EWING
ASHLEY L. FANG
ZANE A. FAYOS
ADAM J. FEHRINGER
RONALD C. FENTON
STEPHEN D. FERNICOLA
BENJAMIN D. FIORE
ALEXANDRA L. FORD
GRADY A. FORTNER
BRIN E. FREUND
JUSTIN B. GAMBRELL
ANDREW R. GARRETT
CODY M. GEDDES
JOEL P. GEURIN
MICHAEL P. GOOLD
JOHN D. GORMAN
MICHELLE M. GOSSELIN
CAROLYN E. GOSZTYLA
ALLISON A. GOULD
DEREK W. GRADY
ANDREW C. GRAF
CHRISTOPHER S. GRANDA
CARRIE N. GRAY
JOHN A. GREENWALD
CLARE E. GRIFFIS
ANDREW W. GRIM
BENJAMIN E. GROUNDS
JESSICA A. GURLEY
LINO A. GUTIERREZ III
ROSS M. HAMILTON
CHRISTOPHER W. HARRIS
KATHRYN M. HARRISON
RYAN J. HASSON
TODD W. HEIG
JENNY M. HELD
JOHNATHAN M. HELLER
DYLAN M. HENDY
AMY F. HILDRETH
STEVEN M. HILL
SUSAN E. HILL
MICHAEL W. HORNACEK
TYLER B. HOUSE
DANIEL J. HOUSKAMP
JESSICA M. HRU
CHARLOTTE K. HUGHES
CHASE A. HUGHES
SEAN M. HURDISS
LESLIE J. HYMAN
KAY L. JAMES
WILLIAM F. JAMES III
ANDREW S. JOHNSON
CODY R. JOHNSON
WILLIAM R. JOHNSON
BRENDAN A. JONES
HEATHER L. JONES
SHANE P. JOSEPH
CECILIA J. A. KIM
ROBERT J. KITZ
JASON A. KOPP
STERLING N. KOSMACH
TODD R. KRAMER
ALYSSA L. A. KREPELA
WALTER B. KUCERA
BENJAMIN J. KURTH
JEREMY R. LANDVATER
KELSEY W. LANE
SHANE T. LAVIN
AMARATEEDHA P. LECOURT
JOSHUA D. LESKO
DANIEL P. LIDDELL
MICHAEL L. LIGHT II
MATTHEW C. LINDSEY
AILEEN J. G. LITWIN
JAMES O. LONG
JOHN E. LOVOI
MATTHEW J. LOWERY
MEAGAN O. MACKEY
KRISTAN E. MADISON
PAUL A. MALDONADO
JODY L. MANNERS
ZOE O. MARINIDES
JOSHUA M. MCDEVITT
CAROLINE M. MCDOWELL
CHRISTIAN S. MCEVOY
MORGAN M. MCGUIRE
IAN J. MCIVER
JOSEPH L. MCKINLEY
SAFIYA D. MCNEESE
THOMAS E. MELLOR
CHARLES D. MEYER
KYLE A. MIKALS
GERALD MING
PATRICK S. G. MOON
LISA L. MORGAN
PATRICK C. MULLINIX
SEAN D. MURNAN
ERIN A. MURPHY
RYAN C. MYERS
SHAWN M. MYERS
STEPHEN A. NAYMICK II
ALEXANDRE D. NGUYEN
TUONGVI D. NGUYEN
CHRISTINA E. NICHOLS
ALANA R. NORITAKE
EMILY A. NORRIS
DAVID S. OLIVER
AARON A. OLSEN
MEREDITH L. OLSEN
RUSSELL J. PALOIAN
JESSE A. PARK
LAUREN A. PAUL
ANDREW P. PEACOCK
BRYAN M. PELKA
NICHOLAS P. J. PERRY
JASON M. PESQUEIRA
JOHN D. PETERS
KEVIN T. PETERSEN
MARYANNE L. PICKETT
HELENE M. PINCHES
SARAH E. PLYLER
IAN M. PORTER
RYAN K. PRESTON
MICHAEL A. QUACINELLA
JAMES C. RAUSCHNOT, JR.
MARY E. RAY
STEPHEN R. REMICK
SARA L. ROBINSON
THOMAS J. ROSE
HEATHER A. ROSS
ERIC C. RUBADO
ALEXANDER J. SALAZAR
HENRY S. SANDERS
TERREL SANDERS
LAUREN C. SARRAN
KAITLYN M. SCHIAVONE
RORY D. SCHWAN
RYAN P. SCHWER
STEPHEN C. SEARS
ERIC J. SERPICO
ERIN N. SHIV
TYLER K. SHORT
MICHAEL A. SIKES
DEREK C. Y. SING
RICHARD E. SLAMA
BENJAMIN T. SMITH
KELLI R. SPELLMAN
MICHAEL D. STARK
JESSE W. STCLAIR IV
CLARENCE E. STEELE
JESSICA A. STEFANOWICZ
JON D. STOCKTON
MORGAN G. STOTTLEMYRE
LAURA C. SUGGS
ANDREW L. SYSKI
CAROLYN E. TAILLON
TIFFANY J. TAM
KARA K. TERUYA
MATTHEW S. THOMAS
MARLON Q. TINGZON
BRETT L. TOMPKINS
DONALD R. TRAINER
ROBERT J. TRENTACOSTA
TROY P. UNDERBRINK
JARED M. VERGA
ASHLEY E. VOSS
GILLIAN R. WACKOWSKI
JOHN P. WAGGONER
KARRIE A. B. WALKER
NICHOLAS Q. WANNEMACHER
JOSHUA B. WASMUND
CHRISTOPHER J. WEBER
MICHAEL C. WEBER
MICHAEL J. WEIPERT
MERISSA I. A. WEISS
ANGELA M. WEISSE
EDWARD B. WIEMHOLT III
BRITTANY L. WILES
BARBARA J. WILLIAMS
JASON T. WILLIAMS
RYAN A. WILLIAMSON
BENJAMIN T. WILSON
DAVIDA E. Y. WILSON
MATTHEW J. WILSON
ANDREW W. WINSLOW
JOSHUA B. WONG
JASON M. WRAY II
GARRETT M. WREN
WEI W. WU
ANGELA ZAH
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
MATTHEW W. CATANESE
GRANT C. GLOVER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
RAMON ACOSTA
ANDREW B. ANDERSON
JONATHAN P. BERUBE
JOSEPH P. BLAUWIEKEL
JOSHUA P. BLY
JONATHAN L. CASTIN
ANDREW J. COTHERMAN
RAUL R. DEPERSIA
PATRICK E. DURNAN
DANIEL R. ELDRED
MARK R. ERWIN
WILLIAM T. FLETCHER
JUSTIN T. GREUNKE
ROBERT G. S. HERNANDEZ
ELIZABETH A. HUBER
DONALD A. HULS
JOHN M. KAISER
JASON D. KIEL
JONATHAN J. KIM
ANDREW K. KORPI
KRISTEN KRUSHINSKI
RONALD B. LAYCOCK
JONATHAN D. MCGUIRE
MICHAEL G. MITSCH
KEVIN T. PAINTER
TIMOTHY S. PALIK
DANIEL Y. PAYNE
JOHN J. POULIOT
CELESTE D. RENOEWICK
ALEXANDER J. ROVINSKY, JR.
CORINNE A. SIMS
THOMAS R. STOCK
VINCENT TREJO
RONALD J. UGLOW
SAMUEL D. WEBB
MORGAN C. WEBER
CASIE M. WHITE
SEN F. YU
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant commander
JONATHAN T. DUENAS
CHARLES S. E. ELLIOTT
JAMES H. PHAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
JOSHUA K. WITT
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be commander
STEPHEN A. JESSOGNE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
VANNA J. ROCCHI
f
WITHDRAWALS
Executive Message transmitted by
the President to the Senate on Sep-
tember 9, 2019 withdrawing from fur-
ther Senate consideration the fol-
lowing nominations:
MICHAEL J. ASTRUE, OF MASSACHUSETTS, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ADVISORY BOARD
FOR A TERM EXPIRING SEPTEMBER 30, 2022, VICE ALAN L.
COHEN, TERM EXPIRED, WHICH WAS SENT TO THE SEN-
ATE ON JANUARY 16, 2019.
MINA CHANG, OF TEXAS, TO BE AN ASSISTANT ADMIN-
ISTRATOR OF THE UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, VICE JONATHAN NICHOLAS
STIVERS, WHICH WAS SENT TO THE SENATE ON JANUARY
16, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A09SE6.027 S09SEPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1105
September 9, 2019
DAVE THOMAS
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Dave Thomas
for receiving the Award of Merit from the First
Judicial District Bar Association.
An active community member of Jefferson
County and within the local law community for
decades, Dave serves the First Judicial Dis-
trict and is well-deserving on the Association’s
highest recognition. For the first ten years of
his career, Dave worked in the Denver District
Attorney’s Office as a Deputy and Chief Dep-
uty District Attorney where he tried homicide
cases, white collar crime, and complex drug
cases as well as spending three years in the
Complex Prosecution Unit. He then spent two
and a half years as Assistant United States
Attorney while also serving on the Mountain
States Drug Task Force and coordinated the
regional drug enforcement effort. Once his
term ended, he went on to serve as the elect-
ed District Attorney for Jefferson County for
twelve years and as the Executive Director of
the Colorado Department of Public Safety for
six years. During that time, Dave also served
as the Executive Director of the Colorado Dis-
trict Attorneys’ Council. He is currently is a pri-
vate defense attorney in Jefferson County.
Throughout his career, Dave has been a
dedicated public servant and active member of
the Jefferson County community. He has
served on numerous boards and local organi-
zations including the Children’s Alliance Board
of Directors (1993–2005), Jeffco Action Center
(1995–2005) and the Victim Outreach Informa-
tion organization (1993–2005). He also helped
bring positive changes to the second largest
school district in Colorado as the President of
the Jefferson County Board of Education from
2007 to 2011.
Dave’s contributions and ongoing dedication
to his community is tremendous. I extend my
deepest thanks and appreciation to Dave
Thomas for his service to our community and
to the people he represents. Congratulations
on this well-deserved recognition from the
First Judicial District Bar Association.
f
NELSON L. MELLITZ
HON. DONALD NORCROSS
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. NORCROSS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life and legacy of Col. Nel-
son L. Mellitz, a resident of Cherry Hill, New
Jersey.
In 1970, Nelson enlisted in the United
States Air Force where his first career field
was as a Civil Engineer, Site Development
Specialist and obtained the rank of Master Sgt
(E–7). Throughout his 32-year military career,
he supported U.S. war and peace-time oper-
ations from Vietnam through Afghanistan. He
was a direct commission as a 2nd Lt in 1980
into the Acquisition and Contracting career
field and after approximately 18 years he was
promoted to Colonel (O–6).
During Col. Mellitz’s military career, he had
assignments in Europe and 15 other locations
in the United States, including the Pentagon
(SAF/AQC). While he was assigned to De-
fense Contract Management Command
(DCMA) in the Brigadier General Reservist
slot, he managed over 3,000 Air Force, Army,
Navy and Marine joint service staff and billions
of dollars in supplies and services.
Immediately after September 11, 2001, Col.
Mellitz was assigned as the manager of the
DCMA Headquarters Command Incident Mobi-
lization Center and deployed troops and
equipment in support of operations in South-
west Asia and elsewhere. In 2005, he volun-
teered to be recalled to active duty and was
assigned to the United States State Depart-
ment as a Senior Executive Service leader
with the Iraqi Reconstruction Management Of-
fice in Baghdad, Iraq for 2005/2006.
In addition to his military service, Nelson
Mellitz is a retired federal employee with his
last assignment at the U.S. Department of the
Treasury, Internal Revenue Service as North-
east Area Chief Procurement Officer. Col.
Mellitz has also obtained an Associate’s De-
gree in Architecture and Building Construction
Technology and a Bachelors of Business Ad-
ministration in Organization and Personnel
Management from Temple University, a Bach-
elor’s of Science in Accounting from Point
Park University, a Masters of Management in
Acquisition from American Graduate Univer-
sity, and a Doctorate in Business Administra-
tion with a concentration in leadership from
Walden University.
In recognition of his valiant service to our
nation, Col. Mellitz humbly received numerous
medals and citations including: Air Force Out-
standing Unit Award, Air Force Organizational
Excellence Award w/1 OLC, Global War on
Terrorism Service Medal, recipient of the U.S.
Ambassador to Iraqi, Meritorious Service
Award and among many other medals and ci-
tations.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
honoring Col. Nelson L. Mellitz of Cherry Hill,
New Jersey who is a constant reminder of the
sacrifices that our men and women of the mili-
tary made so that we can enjoy the liberties
we do today.
f
CONGRATULATING DUMARESQ
SPENCER POST NO. 145
HON. BRADLEY SCOTT SCHNEIDER
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to proudly recognize the 100th anniver-
sary since the founding of Dumaresq Spencer
Post No. 145, an American Legion Post lo-
cated in my district.
The Dumaresq Spencer Post was estab-
lished by World War I veterans led by William
Burke and its namesake honors the first High-
land Park resident to be killed in the conflict.
It was originally located on the second floor of
Witten Hall, across the street from the former
Alcyon Theatre.
Members of the Post typically took part in
patriotic events such as the Memorial Day pa-
rade each year. They also led efforts to collect
scrap metal, prepare for possible air raids, and
offer comfort to families whose sons were
killed in World War II.
Following World War II, the Post gained
substantially more members and its head-
quarters was relocated to a larger venue, the
second floor of the then-Masonic Temple. In
the late 1940’s, the Post donated $2,400 to
the Highland Park Hospital because of a lack
of basinets in their nurseries. Post members
also assisted disabled veterans at Downey
Veterans Hospital by frequently visiting them
and providing them with entertainment.
The Post eventually constructed its own
building at 1957 Sheridan Road and its mem-
bers made enormous financial and material
sacrifices to this end. This location hosted
many events, including Tenth District meetings
and Scouting events. It was eventually sold
and a portion of the proceeds funded the con-
struction of the Veterans Memorial on the cor-
ner of Central and St. Johns Avenue.
The Post now has approximately 100 mem-
bers and it continues to serve our community
and champion the causes of veterans. I con-
gratulate all its members on their 100th anni-
versary, and look forward to working with Post
No. 145 for many more years to come.
f
IN CELEBRATION OF MR. ROBERT
F. KELLEY, SR.’S 100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to extend my sincerest congratula-
tions and Happy Birthday wishes to a true
man of God and public servant, Mr. Robert F.
Kelley, Sr., who celebrated his 100th birthday
on Wednesday, August 14, 2019. He cele-
brated this milestone with family and friends
on Saturday, August 17, 2019, at 5:00 p.m. at
The Cunningham Center located on the cam-
pus of Columbus State University in Colum-
bus, Georgia.
Robert F. Kelley, Sr. was born on August
14, 1919, in Ellaville, Georgia as the fourth of
six children to the late Will Lee and Littie
Hardison Kelley. The values of Christian disci-
pleship, hard work, and education were in-
stilled in Robert at a young age. Although his
studies in the Chatahoochee County Public
School System were cut short because he had
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:29 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K09SE8.001 E09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1106 September 9, 2019
to assist his father in tending to the needs of
the family farm, he remained passionate about
learning. Consequently, as an adult, he contin-
ued to learn and prepare for his future em-
ployment opportunities, such as the United
States Civil Service, the Columbus Ledger-
Enquirer, and the Muscogee County School
District.
On April 27, 1939, at the age of 19, Robert
married the love of his life, Flossie McCray.
They were faithfully married for 56 years until
Flossie’s passing in 1995. Over the years,
they were blessed with eight children: Zelma
(deceased), Robert, Jr., William, Carolyn Ann,
Shirley, Doris, Dorothy, and Rosalyn; 14
grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren. As
doting parents, Robert and Flossie always cre-
ated a nurturing environment of unselfish love,
encouragement, and values to carry their chil-
dren, grandchildren, and a host of other family
members through life.
In addition to being a committed family man,
Mr. Kelley is also a proud Veteran who served
his country during World War II, receiving an
honorable discharge in 1944. His service was
a true testament of his devotion to his country,
as African-American soldiers during this time
were in a segregated Army and fought in a
war with limited chances of receiving a pro-
motion or even an acknowledgment.
After his distinguished military career ended,
Mr. Kelley continued to contribute to his com-
munity. On September 29, 1944, he became a
member of the Mount Pilgrim Baptist Church
in Columbus, Georgia and served over many
years in several leadership capacities includ-
ing Chairman of the Deacon Board, Chairman
of the Trustee Board, Church Clerk, Financial
Secretary, Boy Scout Leader, and Tribe Lead-
er. He continues to serve to this day.
Ecclesiastes 9:11 says ‘‘The race of life is
not given to the swift nor to the strong, but to
those who endure until the end.’’ Robert F.
Kelley, Sr. has run the race of his life with zeal
and dignity. As patriarch of his family, the leg-
acy of the exemplary life he has led stands as
a guiding light for the Kelley family and gen-
erations yet to come. God has blessed him for
over 100 years and for that, and the lives he
has touched, we can only say ‘‘To God be the
glory!‘‘
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues in the
U.S. House of Representatives to join my wife,
Vivian, and me, along with the almost 730,000
people of Georgia’s Second Congressional
District, in honoring an outstanding citizen,
family man, and man of God, Mr. Robert F.
Kelley, Sr., for a lifetime of dedicated service
to his family, his community, and his Nation.
We extend our best wishes and God’s bless-
ings to him on the occasion of his 100th birth-
day.
f
IN HONOR OF THE VISION
FORWARD ASSOCIATION
HON. GWEN MOORE
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Ms. MOORE. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the Vision Forward Association which
serves Southeastern Wisconsin, as they mark
their centennial in 2019. For more than 100
years, Vision Forward has provided services
to a diverse community of individuals who are
blind or visually impaired as well as their fami-
lies.
What began as an advocacy group for the
blind has transformed itself into a consortium,
which provides comprehensive services to in-
dividuals experiencing all stages of vision loss.
From birth through adulthood, this organization
provides critical resources to those who have
been impacted by vision loss, helping them
achieve important developmental milestones,
as well as, educational, personal and profes-
sional goals.
As an organization, Vision Forward chooses
to focus on enhancing every client’s ability not
their disability; they know what people can
achieve is far more impactful than what they
can’t achieve. Vision Forward clients are tal-
ented and spirited citizens who want the same
things as all of us: a good education, a loving
family and community, and a fulfilling career
with success. They are a part of all of our
lives in Southeastern Wisconsin; they are our
family members, coworkers, friends and neigh-
bors.
The success stories of individuals who
came through the doors of Vision Forward on
Hawley Road are countless. All their stories
touched my heart because they demonstrated
the resilience of people under extreme adver-
sity. At Vision Forward, they give every client
hope and show them the amazing things they
can achieve.
The work of Vision Forward has helped cre-
ate a reality in which all individuals with vision
loss can reach their full potential to lead active
and independent lives. The empowerment,
education, and enhancement Vision Forward
has provided over the years serves as a na-
tional model to the adage: ‘‘it doesn’t matter
who you are, every person has the potential to
do great things.’’ Madam Speaker, for these
reasons I am pleased to honor the Vision For-
ward Association, because they make the 4th
Congressional District a better place to work,
live and play.
f
RECOGNIZING THE CENTENNIAL
OF THE AMERICAN LEGION
HON. BILL PASCRELL, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the centennial of The
American Legion, which was founded in Paris,
France on March 15, 1919 by delegates from
combat and service units of the American Ex-
peditionary Force. For those who do not know
this history, the United States Congress grant-
ed a national charter to the delegates on Sep-
tember 16, 1919.
While initially The Legion was composed
only of those who served during World War I,
it later admitted veterans of World War II
(1942), the Korean War (1950), the Vietnam
War (1966), the Lebanon, Grenada, and Pan-
ama hostilities (1990), Operation Desert
Shield/Storm (1991), and the wars in Afghani-
stan (2001) and Iraq (2001).
To this very day, the focus of The American
Legion is on the care of disabled and sick vet-
erans. The American Legion has been instru-
mental in establishing hospitals and other sup-
port services for veterans. The hard work of
those involved with The American Legion was
influential in the creation of the U.S. Veterans
Administration in 1930 and the enactment of
the GI Bill of Rights in 1944. These two poli-
cies have helped more than 10,500,000 vet-
erans afford college or vocational training pro-
grams and assisted more than 5,600,000 vet-
erans in their efforts to purchase homes.
The American Legion does not just help the
veterans who are members. It is an organiza-
tion dedicated to charity and community. Posts
across the country donate more than 3.7 mil-
lion hours of volunteer service. Posts have
also helped collect more than 80,000 pints of
blood every year for donation. This makes The
American Legion the single largest blood
donor. And The Legion and its members are
focused on future generations by awarding
more than 8,000 medals to Junior ROTC stu-
dents and sponsoring more than 2,500 Scout-
ing units that serve over 64,000 young people.
Finally, they have awarded more than $4 mil-
lion in awards to support individuals to go to
college.
In New Jersey, The American Legion is cur-
rently led by Department Commander Robert
B. Newell. It does an extraordinary job advo-
cating on behalf of veterans and their families.
With a membership of over 4,000, American
Legion Posts in Bergen County, New Jersey
are celebrating 100 years of service with a
celebration in Lodi, New Jersey on September
29. I am pleased to recognize the positive
contributions and role The American Legion
serves in our community. The Legion’s myriad
of contributions to the good and welfare of vet-
erans, service members and the community at
large cannot possibly be measured. But it is
important that they continue to receive our full
support.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF BEVERLY
ELIAS MILLER
HON. JACKIE SPEIER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, on the occa-
sion of her well-deserved retirement, I rise to
honor Beverly Elias Miller, an exceptional
woman, an exemplary community leader and
an extraordinary human being. In her 29 years
on the coast of San Mateo county, Bev
touched the lives of just about every
coastsider and her contributions are ingrained
in the fabric of this wonderful community. I feel
very fortunate to count her as a close friend.
We first met in 1992 at a Soroptimists award
event that she, of course, choreographed.
Originally from Marinette, Wisconsin, Bev
launched her career in the banking industry in
Spokane, Washington in 1967. Starting out as
a trainee in the key punch department she
learned almost all aspects of banking over the
following 32 years. She came to the coast in
1991 and served as the branch manager of
First National Bank before being promoted to
vice president and regional manager. When
the Bank of America shut down its earliest
branch, located in the tiny rural town of
Pescadero, Bev and local farmers and busi-
nesses came together to open a branch of her
bank so that loans and banking services re-
mained available. In an era before the term
‘‘unbanked’’ was popularized, Bev ensured
that farm workers could cash their paychecks
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:13 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09SE8.001 E09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1107
September 9, 2019
to pay the rent. Today, the successor to First
National maintains that branch and the rela-
tionship with the community, so wise was
Bev’s investment of time and energy in the
economic development of this little town.
Grass never grew under her feet and, to
prove the point, in 2000 she accepted the po-
sition as chief financial officer at San Fran-
cisco Brannan Street Wholesale Florist Incor-
porated. This is a very large wholesale oper-
ation in San Francisco, and a perfect work en-
vironment given Bev’s love for flowers, particu-
larly roses. Bev is an avid gardener and the
roses in her garden look like award winners.
It was also a natural transition from working
with the coastside’s farmers, many of whom
sold their product at this facility. However, Bev
never severed her relationship with coastside
businesses and charities.
Whether it’s Farm Day, the Pumpkin Fes-
tival, Dream Machine, the Harbor Lights Boat
Lighting Contest or any other signature event
on the coast, Bev was present and most likely
running the show. Several of these events
served as fundraisers for charities, and Bev
was always serving food, pouring drinks, or
raising money. She also used the bully pulpit
of the Chamber of Commerce to promote tour-
ism so that her customers and our residents
could thrive during good times and survive as
recessions came and went.
Throughout her time on the coast, and al-
though she worked full time, she found time to
volunteer long hours. She served on the board
of directors of the San Mateo Event Center.
For 12 years, she served on the board of di-
rectors of the Half Moon Bay Chamber of
Commerce. Since 1992 she has been the
chair for Mel Mello Farm Day, a delightful an-
nual luncheon that has brought together farm-
ers, small business owners and community
leaders for 50 years. It is one of my favorite
events of the year and I always cherish
spending that day with Bev. She is the main
engine behind this elaborate luncheon, com-
plete with local recipes for artichokes and
Brussels sprouts. So ubiquitous is Bev’s pres-
ence that the Chamber created an award to
be given to a community leader. It’s named
the Bev Miller Community Service Award. A
true civic volunteer, she also served on the
board of her homeowner’s association and
keeps her home as immaculate as her garden.
She is known for constantly redecorating her
house. Bev simply can’t sit still and is always
in motion.
One of the most difficult but important jobs
in any community is serving on the board sofa
nonprofit for disabled seniors. Bev served on
the board of the Coastside Adult Day Health
Center, a remarkable institution that has pro-
vided loving care for the elderly for decades.
She was a judge for the Harbor Lights Boat
Lighting Contest, served on the Dream Ma-
chine Committee, and always was the first vol-
unteer to arrive at the Pumpkin Festival and
the last to leave. Hundreds of thousands visit
the festival each year. If you run a non-profit
organization, you clearly want Bev on your
board.
Madam Speaker, I ask the House of Rep-
resentatives to rise with me to celebrate the
joy of life (goie de vivre) of Bev Miller. She’s
leaving the coastside and will be dearly
missed. She is returning to Spokane
unleashing an immediate rise in energy and
optimism once she enters its community hall
or local government center. She will stay en-
gaged in any town that she calls home. Serv-
ice to others is in her DNA and I wish her all
the best in the next chapter in her life. I, along
with countless coastsiders, will deeply miss
her.
f
HONORING 50 YEARS OF SERVICE
BY CROWDER INDUSTRIES
HON. BILLY LONG
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. LONG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the 50 years of service by Crowder In-
dustries of Newton County, Missouri.
In August of 1969, Crowder Industries
opened its doors in Newton County. Its mis-
sion was simple: provide meaningful employ-
ment to disabled citizens. Since then, hun-
dreds of people have come through its doors
and received the opportunity to work in and
serve their community.
Today, Crowder Industries works in areas
such as assembly, packaging services and
cardboard production for its community part-
ners, providing not only employment for those
with disabilities, but also serving the commu-
nity, and helping other local businesses.
Crowder Industries currently employs 110 peo-
ple, most of whom have some disability.
These hard-working employees work along-
side people who provide vital support for the
process and keep the company functioning
smoothly.
The success of Crowder Industries is in
large part due to the support of the Newton
County community, and local businesses.
They provide Crowder Industries with the re-
sources it needs to fulfill its mission.
Madam Speaker, Crowder Industries has
spent the last 50 years striving towards a goal.
It was formed with the idea that everyone
should be able to have meaningful employ-
ment. Its motto is, ‘‘Our People Make the Dif-
ference.’’ Crowder Industries has fulfilled its
mission and its motto. Its work has bettered
the citizens of Newton County, and all south-
west Missouri, and I can think of no greater
honor than to recognize Crowder Industries
achievements here.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE RARE DIS-
EASE ADVANCEMENT, RE-
SEARCH, AND EDUCATION (RARE)
ACT, H.R. 4228
HON. ANDRÉ CARSON
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. CARSON of Indiana. Madam Speaker, I
am pleased to reintroduce the Rare disease
Advancement, Research, and Education
(RARE) Act. This important, bipartisan legisla-
tion will address many of the issues facing
rare disease patients and families. I am
pleased that this legislation has been en-
dorsed by 139 patient groups and cospon-
sored by a number of my colleagues from
both sides of the aisle. But most importantly,
this legislation will make a meaningful dif-
ference in the lives of those struggling with
rare diseases by using increased research to
help provide more accurate diagnoses and in-
creased treatment options.
During my time in Congress, I have been
honored to represent and meet with many
brave Hoosier families that are struggling with
rare diseases. I have been moved by their
courage. Their strength in the midst of trying
conditions is not only inspiring, but also in-
structive. They have educated me and my col-
leagues about the necessity of increased re-
search and rare disease surveillance in order
to provide more treatment options and better
diagnoses.
One family in Indiana, the Meggenhofens,
exemplify the challenges of accurately diag-
nosing and treating rare diseases. Jocelyn
Meggenhofen was born with Leukodystrophy,
an extremely rare brain disease that causes
delays in cognitive development and poor
motor skills. After years of seizures,
misdiagnoses of a brain tumor, and denials
from residential facilities, Jocelyn was finally
able to receive the correct treatment. Her
struggles were not over: the Meggenhofen’s
health insurance would not cover room and
board for an inpatient stay at a facility in New
Jersey and her school in Hancock County
would not approve Jocelyn’s education at the
facility. However, despite being told by doctors
that she wouldn’t live past her fifth birthday,
Jocelyn, now 15, has received treatment at
Riley Children’s Health hospital in Indianapolis
and continues to fight her disease.
In another example, Derrian Baker in
Merrillville, Indiana suffered from Prader Willi
Syndrome, a very rare genetic disorder. Dur-
ing his short life, Derrian and his family strug-
gled to receive the necessary treatment after
being denied an inpatient stay for treatment at
the Children’s Institute in Pittsburgh. Derrian
passed away at the age of 26, underscoring
the severity and high morbidity of many rare
diseases if they cannot be treated.
Unfortunately, the plights of people like
Jocelyn and Derrian are not uncommon: Near-
ly one in ten Americans live with one or more
of the roughly 7,000 known rare diseases.
These largely inherited diseases—defined as
affecting 200,000 or fewer people—often lack
substantive research investments and treat-
ment options. In particular, African-Americans
are especially vulnerable to certain rare dis-
eases, including Sickle cell disease and beta-
thalassemia. Specifically, the blood disorder
Sickle cell disease affects 73 out of every
1,000 African American babies versus only
three out of every 1,000 Caucasian babies.
While rare diseases cross the medical spec-
trum, individuals with rare diseases face some
common challenges. Largely due to their lim-
ited patient population size, these individuals
may have difficulty obtaining an accurate diag-
nosis, finding physicians or treatment centers
with expertise in their disease, and ultimately
finding appropriate treatment options and
cures. Moreover, it can be difficult to find pa-
tients for treatment studies, underscored by
the example of Maria Isabel Bueso, who came
to the U.S. from Guatemala in order to partici-
pate in a clinical trial. Thanks to her participa-
tion, a treatment for her rare disease,
Mucopolysaccharidosis VI, was approved.
Maria now faces the possibility of deportation
because the current administration eliminated
a program that allows immigrants like Maria to
stay in the country while receiving lifesaving
medical treatment. Frighteningly, roughly 90
percent of rare diseases still lack a treatment
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:13 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09SE8.004 E09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1108 September 9, 2019
approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Adminis-
tration (FDA). While over 450 drugs have
been approved for the treatment of rare dis-
eases, millions of Americans who are suffering
from a rare disease have no approved treat-
ment options.
Past Congressional action has helped sup-
port research at NIH and CDC, supported in
part by the bipartisan appropriations letter I
lead each year—signed by over 220 House
members—in support of increased NIH fund-
ing. However, much more work needs to be
done to help these agencies improve rare dis-
ease awareness, education, research, surveil-
lance, diagnosis, and treatment. This is why
the RARE Act is so important. It will expand
the ability of the National Institutes of Health
(NIH) and Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC) to study rare diseases by
improving treatment, research, and diagnostics
of rare diseases through new and existing pro-
grams. I am proud to introduce the RARE Act
to help address the many unique challenges
facing the rare disease patient community, in-
cluding patients like Jocelyn and Derrian.
The RARE Act would provide an important
step forward by addressing some of the com-
mon challenges faced by rare disease patients
and improving rare disease treatment, re-
search, and diagnostics. The RARE Act would
expand an existing and successful program at
NIH: the Rare Diseases Clinical Research
Network (RDCRN). The RDCRN’s 21 research
‘‘centers of excellence’’ support the research
and clinical trials of over 190 rare diseases
and increase the availability of rare disease in-
formation to doctors and patients. Expanding
these centers, which are similar to the center
that helped find an accurate diagnosis for
Jocelyn, would help many more struggling pa-
tients to receive more accurate early diag-
noses and treatments.
The RARE Act would also fill critical gaps in
our healthcare system by improving coordina-
tion, surveillance, and awareness of rare dis-
eases. For example, the RARE Act would re-
quire the Centers for Disease Control (CDC)
to create a National Rare Disease or Condi-
tion Surveillance System. This formalized in-
frastructure would track rare disease data and
help researchers to understand commonalities
between diseases and possible treatments, ul-
timately helping patients like Derrian to find
better treatments. The RARE Act would also
require the Agency for Healthcare Research
and Quality (AHRQ) to expand and intensify
its work to ensure that health professionals
are aware of rare disease diagnoses and
treatments, leading to fewer misdiagnoses like
Jocelyn experienced. The RARE Act would
also mandate an updated report on rare dis-
ease efforts from the National Academies of
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to en-
sure that Congress has the best tools possible
to address these issues.
Madam Speaker, I hope my colleagues will
join me in supporting this bill to help combat
rare diseases. The stories of Jocelyn and
Derrian remind us that we need further re-
search and disease surveillance to improve
rare disease patients’ lives in Indiana and
across the nation. I urge the House to support
this bill.
RECOGNIZING DANIEL KRAUKLIS
AND HAZEL SHELTON KRAUKLIS
HON. BRADLEY SCOTT SCHNEIDER
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize two World War II veterans
who just happen to be married to each other:
Daniel Krauklis and Hazel Shelton Krauklis.
Daniel was born in 1922 and grew up on
the South Side of Chicago. He graduated from
Calumet High School. After the Pearl Harbor
attacks, Daniel enlisted in the Army Air Corps
where he served as a technical staff sergeant
in the China-Burma-India (CBI) unit. He
worked with one of the first IBM computing
systems to send reports of personnel to the
Pentagon. After the war, he worked in the bur-
geoning IBM department at the Old Rose Liq-
uor Distributors in Chicago.
Hazel was born in 1924 and grew up in a
small Oklahoma town. After she graduated
from high school, Hazel worked at a Douglas
Aircraft facility in Tulsa, constructing war
planes. When she turned 20, Hazel enlisted in
the Women’s Army Corps. There, Hazel was
a sheet metal mechanic—building and flying in
B–17s and B–29s. After the war, Hazel moved
to Chicago where she was hired as a key-
punch operator by none other than Daniel.
The two eventually married on February 20,
1951. They moved to Park Forest, Illinois, a
community developed for returning GIs where
they raised five children together. Daniel even-
tually worked at an Office Electronics Inc. fa-
cility, ultimately becoming President of the
company before taking another job selling of-
fice supplies prior to his retirement.
The couple finally moved to Spring Mead-
ows Assisted Living in Libertyville where Dan-
iel just celebrated his 97th birthday and Hazel
her 95th.
Three years ago, B–17s were featured at
the Waukegan Air Show where visitors, includ-
ing Hazel, were able to fly on the planes. I am
honored to recognize their combined service
to our country as they celebrate over 67 years
of marriage.
f
HONORING DR. LEW BAUMAN
HON. JIMMY PANETTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. PANETTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the retiring Monterey County Admin-
istrative Officer, Dr. Lew Bauman, after twenty
years of public service. As the County Admin-
istrative Officer, Dr. Bauman is the manager of
county government and represents the County
and Board. His leadership has impacted my
district and the communities within it, and I am
honored to acknowledge his legacy today in
the U.S. House of Representatives.
Dr. Bauman has served in the position of
County Administrative Officer since January of
2005. Over the past seventeen and a half
years, he has made significant contributions to
the health, infrastructure, and economy of
Monterey County. A few of the many accom-
plishments during his career include the finan-
cial turnaround of Navidad Medical Center, the
financing of the county’s Road Fund, local in-
frastructure renewal projects, and the reorga-
nization of departments for maximized effi-
ciency. Dr. Bauman is highly regarded by his
peers as a patient, forward thinking and com-
passionate leader. These attributes that have
greatly benefited the lives and careers of the
over 5,300 employees of Monterey County.
Dr. Bauman has also been an active mem-
ber of numerous nonprofit boards and com-
missions. These include the United Way,
Community Health Innovations, the Monterey
Rotary, and Navidad Medical Center, where
he serves as a Trustee. He also serves on the
board for the American Public Works Associa-
tion and served as Director of the County En-
gineers’ Association of California. Further, he
has served on the American Society of Civil
Engineers board, where he is able to lend the
knowledge he obtained from his experience as
a city engineer in Foster City, a senior engi-
neer in San Jose, and his M.S. and Ph.D. pro-
grams in Civil Engineering at UCLA.
Madam Speaker, it is my honor to recognize
Dr. Lew Bauman for his successful career as
a public servant. We are very fortunate to
have had an individual that has shown such
devotion to improving communities on the cen-
tral coast of California. Dr. Bauman plans on
remaining in Monterey County and continuing
his service to the community while enjoying
life alongside his wife, Jennifer Stone, and two
daughters, Avalon and Madeline. I ask that my
distinguished colleagues join me in congratu-
lating Dr. Lew Bauman on his retirement, suc-
cessful career, and unwavering dedication to
the 20th District of California.
f
MAJOR GENERAL JEFF
BROADWATER RELINQUISHES
COMMAND OF THE NATIONAL
TRAINING CENTER
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the contributions of U.S. Army Major
General Jeff Broadwater, who will relinquish
command of the National Training Center on
September 9, 2019. MG Broadwater is leaving
for his next duty assignment as Commanding
General, 1st Cavalry Division at Fort Hood.
Despite unexpectedly assuming command
outside a normal schedule, MG Broadwater
stepped into the post with the grit, determina-
tion, and intelligence that characterizes his en-
tire career. During his command, MG
Broadwater worked to ensure training rotations
at the National Training Center received the
best possible scenarios and experiences for a
realistic training experience. The hard work he
and his staff undertook every day ensured
every unit that passed through the National
Training Center was prepared for combat in
defense of our nation. During his two and a
half years at the National Training Center, MG
Broadwater exemplified its motto ‘‘Lead, Train,
Win.’’
ln addition to thanking Major General
Broadwater for his service at the National
Training Center, I would also like to recognize
his outstanding military career. MG
Broadwater is a combat veteran with numer-
ous deployments to both Iraq and Afghanistan.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:13 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09SE8.006 E09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1109
September 9, 2019
His awards and decorations include Defense
Superior Service Medal, Legion of Merit,
Bronze Star Medal, Meritorious Service Medal,
Ranger Tab, Master Parachutist Badge, and
Combat Action Badge. While we will miss him
in California, I am confident that he will bring
the same passion, enthusiasm, and success
to Fort Hood as he assumes command of the
1st Cavalry Division.
f
RECOGNIZING THE ACHIEVEMENTS
OF EMALEE FLATNESS
HON. BILLY LONG
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. LONG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the accomplishments and talent of
Emalee Flatness.
Emalee, a graduate of Willard High School
in southwest, Missouri, recently competed in
the Musical Theater Songwriting Challenge.
The challenge is a national contest, sponsored
by the National Endowment for the Arts, that
allows high school students to submit songs
they have written that could one day be in a
Broadway show. Out of 500 submissions, six
were chosen, and Emalee was one of those
six.
Emalee’s journey started when she was just
14 years old. It was then that she started writ-
ing lyrics dedicated to her great-great-great-
great-grandfather, Arnoldus Zweerink, who
was drafted by the Union Army in the Civil
War and died nine days before General Lee’s
surrender at Appomattox Courthouse. She has
continued working on the song, finally submit-
ting to this year’s contest. She named her
song ‘‘Bring Him Back to Carolina.’’ The song
chronicles not only the feelings of Arnoldus
but also his wife Elizabeth, who was unaware
of his death at the time of the surrender.
Emalee is now working with two New York
City-based musical theater artists to put the
finishing touches on the song before the final
recording. She is also preparing to attend Mis-
souri State University, in Springfield, to study
history, and continue her passion for song-
writing.
Madam Speaker, it is evident that Emalee is
an immensely talented woman with a strong
passion for music and history. It is with great
honor that I rise to recognize her award-win-
ning song, and wish her luck in her future en-
deavors.
f
HONORING DEBORAH BRIN PRU-
ITT’S 30 YEARS OF COMMUNITY
SERVICE
HON. NORMA J. TORRES
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam Speak-
er, I rise to honor Deborah Brin Pruitt’s 30
years of service to the families and children of
the Pomona Valley as Director of the Temple
Beth Israel Preschool and Daycare.
Since her leadership of the school began in
1989, Deborah has helped shape the lives of
children from well over one thousand families,
providing a caring, creative, and safe learning
environment that fosters emotional and intel-
lectual growth and development for her young
students.
Through Deborah’s management, the pre-
school has been an important asset to the
synagogue community, both culturally and fi-
nancially. Under her direction, the school has
proudly opened its doors to children of all
faiths and cultures, helping promote integra-
tion of the synagogue within the overall gen-
eral community as she managed the business
of the school to support the financial life of
Temple Beth Israel.
During her tenure as Director, Deborah has
provided leadership and mentorship to dozens
of early childhood education professionals.
Supporting the professional growth of her staff
at the temple, as well as sharing her knowl-
edge for nearly a decade teaching child devel-
opment courses at Chaffey Community Col-
lege and American Nanny College.
Deborah has been recognized as the ‘‘Jew-
ish Professional of the Year’’ by the Jewish
Federation of the Greater San Gabriel and Po-
mona Valleys, and she is an important mem-
ber of the professional team that makes Tem-
ple Beth Israel a shining light in the Jewish
community and the entire community of the
Pomona Valley.
For her leadership over these past 30 years,
we honor Deborah Brin Pruitt on this day and
thank her for her dedication and service that
will continue to benefit Temple Beth Israel and
the Pomona Valley community for generations
to come.
f
HONORING ROBERT SCATTINI
HON. JIMMY PANETTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. PANETTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to celebrate the life of Robert Scattini, a public
servant of San Benito County, California. Mr.
Scattini lived a long life, filled with family and
friends. His service to San Benito County, the
state of California, and United States of Amer-
ica and love for all people will be missed.
Throughout Robert’s decades of dedicated
public service, he left an indelible mark on the
citizens of San Benito County that will be felt
for generations to come.
Mr. Scattini was born on February 21, 1939
in San Jose, California. He grew up alongside
four brothers and four sisters in Castroville,
Salinas, and San Juan Bautista. He graduated
from San Benito High School in 1958 and
soon joined the U.S. Army. Upon returning
home, he began his distinguished career in
law enforcement and continued his service as
a San Benito County Sheriff’s Deputy. Fol-
lowing four years with the local sheriff’s de-
partment, he entered the California Highway
Patrol Academy and eventually joined the
Gilroy CHP office, overseeing San Benito
County.
As a law enforcement professional, Robert
was frequently heroic. On one such occasion
in the mid-1970s while he was with the CHP,
a man had a heart attack and stopped breath-
ing. Robbie administered CPR and revived
him, earning him recognition from then-Presi-
dent Gerald Ford. From that point on, for
many years, the survivor’s family brought food
to the Scattini home during the holidays. It
was just one example of appreciation, among
many, which locals showed Robert for his
compassion and endearing nature. He was
with the CHP from 1966 to 1983 and became
the sheriff in 1983. As a County Constable,
City Councilman, Gavilan College criminology
instructor, San Benito County Planning Com-
missioner, board member for the San Benito
Health Foundation, and member of numerous
local nonprofit organizations, Mr. Scattini was
a tremendous model of civic leadership in our
community.
Robert Scattini loved everything about San
Benito County, and his devotion to the people
on the central coast of California reflects the
genuine nature of a man who deeply cared for
his community, family and the United States of
America. As we look back on the life of Robert
Scattini, we know that his spirit, love, and
dedication to public service provide us with the
motivation to continue his great on the Central
Coast. Madam Speaker, I ask that my col-
leagues join me in celebrating the life of Mr.
Robert Scattini.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE LIFE OF
NANCY PARKER BOYD
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I ask for the House’s attention to recognize
the life of Nancy Parker Boyd.
Nancy was born in Opelika, Alabama, on
July 27, 1966 to Bill and Patsy Parker. She
graduated from Opelika High School and was
the first African American Miss OHS. Nancy
also graduated with honors from the University
of Alabama College of Communications Infor-
mation Sciences with a Bachelor of Arts de-
gree in Journalism in 1988.
Nancy was a five-time Emmy Award winning
journalist, received five Edward R. Murrow
awards and numerous Associated Press
awards for her reporting and documentary
work.
She began her interest in journalism in high
school where she wrote for the Mainstreet Ga-
zette and was an anchor on the WJHO radio
station. She spent time working in the late
Congressman Bill Nichols’ press office and
then started her first job in television in 1989.
She worked for WTVM in Columbus, Georgia,
WSFA in Montgomery, Alabama, and spent
over 20 years at WVUE in New Orleans, Lou-
isiana.
Nancy was married to Glynn Boyd and had
three children: Parker, Piper and Pierce.
Madam Speaker, please join me in remem-
bering the life of Nancy Parker Boyd.
f
TRIBUTE TO FORMER CALIFOR-
NIAN STATE SENATOR WADIE P.
DEDDEH
HON. SUSAN A. DAVIS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mrs. DAVIS of California. Madam Speaker,
I am sorry to learn of the passing of former
California State Senator Wadie P. Deddeh.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:13 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09SE8.007 E09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1110 September 9, 2019
Wadie was the first Iraqi-born American
ever elected to public office in the United
States. He served in the state legislature for
27 years—first in the Assembly, then in the
Senate.
He was known as the ‘‘Father of CalTrans’’
because he introduced and guided the legisla-
tion that created California’s Department of
Transportation.
During the dedication of a new CalTrans
Building in Old Town in San Diego—a building
that was being named after him—Wadie re-
called the first time he ran for office in 1966.
He was told Wadie Deddeh was a funny name
and he might want to change it. He acknowl-
edged it was a funny name but he would not
be changing it. ‘‘People can vote for Wadie P.
Deddeh or they don’t have to vote for me,’’ he
said.
He was deeply proud of his Iraqi Chaldean
heritage. And he was deeply proud to be an
American.
In 1979, during the height of the hostage
crisis in Iran when 52 Americans were held
444 days, the United States sought to re-es-
tablish diplomatic relations with Iraq. President
Jimmy Carter asked Wadie if he would go to
Iraq and meet with Iraq’s Foreign Minister in
this effort. He said he would of course return
to his homeland on behalf of America.
While that initial effort to restore diplomacy
was not successful, it showed the status he
had not only in our state but the nation.
Born in Baghdad, Wadie emigrated to Amer-
ica in 1947. His story is a shining example of
the positive impact immigration has—and con-
tinues to have—on the United States. Wadie
epitomized public service—an example that
lives on in his son Peter, a Superior Court
Judge.
I worked with Wadie on numerous efforts
and experienced firsthand the highly respected
judgment associated with him.
My deepest condolences go out to his fam-
ily. They can take pride in knowing that an
Iraqi immigrant, inspired by the words of the
Declaration of Independence and the U.S.
Constitution, left a legacy in California that
lives on to this day.
As Wadie was known to say, ‘‘Only in Amer-
ica.’’
f
IN APPRECIATION OF JANE
WITTMEYER AND HER SERVICE
TO IDAHO
HON. MICHAEL K. SIMPSON
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Jane Wittmeyer for her incredible
service she has given to the great state of
Idaho as she retires from Wittmeyer and Asso-
ciates.
One of the greatest aspects of being a pub-
lic servant is meeting people like Jane. Over
the years, my staff and I have relied on Jane
for her guidance and expertise in several
areas, particularly related to our forests, nat-
ural resources and agriculture. Jane can bring
people together by building coalitions to solve
issues by finding creative solutions with mini-
mal impact. This is a skillset that few people
possess, and our society certainly needs more
problem-solvers like Jane.
Jane’s resume is also extremely impressive,
from her exceptional academic education re-
ceiving her MBA in International Business and
PhD in Public Administration, to her incredible
work ethic running her own company, to her
athletic achievements in cross country and
Tae Kwon Do. Simply put, there is very little
that Jane can’t and hasn’t accomplished.
There is a personal side to Jane as well.
Whenever you see her, she greets you with a
warm smile, asks about your work and family
and is happy to share stories of her own chil-
dren and husband. She is a dedicated mother,
wife and a fiercely loyal friend.
I consider Jane a good friend, so it is hard
to imagine Idaho Agriculture Industry without
her at the table. Congratulations Jane, enjoy
retirement.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE LIFE OF
RAMIAH ELIZABETH LEONARD
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I ask for the House’s attention to recognize
the life of Ramiah Elizabeth Leonard.
Ramiah was born on February 16, 2009 to
Eugene and Rasheda Leonard in Jacksonville,
Alabama. They chose a very special name for
their special delivery who was born on her
mother’s birthday. Her godparents, Sherman
and Latoya Young, Jr., were named at her
birth.
Princess Ramiah was a sassy toddler and
grew into an active child. She loved music,
singing and dancing. She could always be
found adorned in the latest fashions including
glitter lip gloss.
She attended DeArmanville Elementary
School and Oxford Elementary School. She
was in fifth grade at C.E. Hanna Elementary
School and a proud member of the Jacket
Singing Sensations. She also attended the
TLC Camp Life Enrichment After School pro-
gram.
Ramiah accepted Christ at the age of eight
under the leadership of her father. She loved
Jesus Christ and was an active member of
The Life Center Church.
On August 30, 2019 at 8:08 am, Ramiah
passed away exchanging her princess crown
for a set of wings. Her legacy will live on
through her parents.
Madam Speaker, please join me in remem-
bering the life of Ramiah Elizabeth.
f
CONGRATULATING BRADLEY
COUNTY 4–H
HON. BRUCE WESTERMAN
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Speaker, I ex-
tend my deepest congratulations to Bradley
County’s 4–H Forestry Team on their excep-
tional representation of Arkansas at the 40th
Annual National 4–H Forestry Invitational.
Braden Harrod, Gregory Hilliard, David
McGhee, and Madison McGhee from Hermit-
age, Arkansas were named National Cham-
pions at the 4–H Forestry Invitational, leading
Coach Joe Don Greenwood and Bradley
County to their third championship title since
2016. In addition to this honor, Braden Harrod
won the high point individual award at the
competition.
The national event featured skills testing in
various areas such as tree identification, tree
measurement, compass and pacing, insect
and disease identification, topographic map
use, forest evaluation, the forestry bowl, and a
written forestry exam.
Coach Greenwood and these students ex-
hibited exemplary work ethic and superior skill
in preparation for the championship. As a fel-
low forester, it is encouraging to see young
Fourth District Arkansans nurture a knowledge
of good resource management and steward-
ship. I look forward to witnessing the further
success of these students as they continue to
represent our district and state on a national
level.
f
HONORING DR. WALTER S. MCAFEE
HON. CHRISTOPHER H. SMITH
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Madam Speaker,
as a result of legislation I introduced (H.R.
3655) which was signed into law (P.L. 115–
151), more than 200 people gathered outside
the U.S. Post Office located on Main Street in
Belmar, NJ at a ceremony to rename the
building in honor of Dr. Walter S. McAfee—an
extraordinary scientist, educator, and inno-
vator.
Attending the event were many family mem-
bers, friends and coworkers of Dr. McAfee’s,
including his sister, Velma McAfee-Williams,
who turned 90 last week, and his daughters
Marsha McAfee Bera-Morris and Diane Mer-
cedes McAfee.
Also present to pay tribute to Dr. McAfee
was: Belmar Mayor Mark Walsifer; USPS
South Jersey District Manager James Drum-
mer; Belmar Postmaster John Mutchler, III;
Mike Ruane, the CEO of InfoAge Science &
History Center; and elected officials from Mon-
mouth County, neighboring Lake Como and
Wall Township.
Dr. McAfee was a brilliant scientist. His
breakthrough research and mathematical theo-
ries led to bouncing radio signals off the
moon’s surface. His unique work served as
the forerunner for satellite communications,
entry into the space age, moonshots and
moonwalks.
Dr. McAfee is also known for his many inno-
vations and successful projects including sen-
sors he pioneered to assist the military in
keeping tabs on aggressive actors—tools that
saved the lives of many Americans and our al-
lies.
And we remembered and honored Dr.
McAfee for his lifelong commitment to learn-
ing—including his tenure as a professor at
Monmouth College and service as Chairman
of the Board at Brookdale Community College.
As an African-American, Dr. McAfee over-
came adversity and prejudice with courage, te-
nacity and faith. His amazing life inspires. He
challenges us to strive for excellence. He is
truly a role model.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:13 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09SE8.011 E09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1111
September 9, 2019
In closing, I would like to include in the
RECORD, the moving and heart-warming re-
marks given by Dr. McAfee’s daughter, Mar-
sha McAfee Bera-Morris, and nephew, Dr. Leo
Cecil McAfee, Jr.
REMARKS BY MARSHA MCAFEE BERA-MORRIS
Good morning. Congressman Smith, Mayor
Walsifer, District Manager Drummer, Post-
master Mutchler, family and friends. I am
Marsha McAfee Bera-Morris, the younger (or
second) daughter of Walter Samuel and Viola
Winston McAfee.
On behalf of the entire McAfee family, I
would like to thank Congressman Smith and
his staff and ‘‘the leaders of the Information
Age Learning Center (or InfoAge)’’ for their
efforts and persistence in the honoring of our
father/brother/uncle/granduncle/etc. by re-
naming the Belmar Post Office as the ‘‘Dr.
Walter S. McAfee Post Office Building.’’ We
all greatly appreciate this honor and the op-
portunity that this renaming ceremony af-
fords us to celebrate his memory and share
our thoughts about his lifelong effort to con-
tribute to science and its service to the na-
tion.
My father was deeply interested in edu-
cation throughout his entire lifetime. He
taught briefly at a Champion Junior High
School in Columbus, Ohio. He also taught
part-time at a couple of New Jersey colleges,
including Monmouth College, while em-
ployed by the Army.
I would like to share with you just a bit of
my personal perspective on his love of astro-
physics. I can remember him waking me up,
along with my sister Diane—at our request
[a request that he probably encouraged]—to
see meteor showers or lunar eclipses. Space
physics was one of his true loves. The sum-
mer I turned 12, a significant age for air
fares, the 4 of us traveled to Europe. Three
(3) of us were on vacation; he was doing re-
search on what, I think, were large radar in-
stallations.
At home, he would often help with home-
work. But he would never seem to just an-
swer a question. Rather, he would ask ques-
tions, backtracking until he found some-
thing that I or my sister Diane had mas-
tered. He would then bring us forward to the
subject matter about which we had inquired.
Sometimes this was interesting; more often,
it was quite exasperating. But he instilled in
his two daughters a desire to master their
selected fields of endeavor. And finally, it
was almost impossible to argue with my fa-
ther; logic and reason had to govern any dis-
cussion.
About 15 years ago, I got my hands on a
copy of a speech my father had given. His
speech concerned his own education and the
almost unbelievable hardships he had en-
dured and against which he had struggled.
My father was born in 1914 in Ore City,
Texas. One of nine children to survive be-
yond age five (5), he grew up in Marshall,
Texas. His parents were both educated and
‘‘had strong middle-class values.’’ All but
one of his siblings earned college degrees. He
pointed out in his speech that his parents
owned a parcel of land. If they had been
sharecroppers, then he might not have con-
tinued his education, since, in those days,
the landowner could ‘‘determine the fate’’ of
a sharecropper’s children in the educational
sphere.
My father graduated from Wiley College in
Marshall, Texas, with a bachelors (B.S.) in
mathematics, magna cum laude. I think all
or most of his siblings also attended Wiley.
Second oldest, he assisted with the expenses
of some of his younger siblings. He earned an
M.S. in Physics from Ohio State University
and a Ph.D. in Physics from Cornell Univer-
sity (under Hans Bethe). It is from his speech
that I gather that his most trying time was
at Ohio State. Black people were not allowed
to be teaching assistants at Ohio State at
that time, nor could they stay in the dor-
mitories on campus. At times, my father was
working three or four jobs simultaneously to
cover the cost of tuition and housing and
educational expenses. His department chair-
man actively discouraged pursuit of a Ph.D.
and, according to my father, hollered at him
for not taking an Industrial Arts course. He
was, after all, only going to be able to go
back South to teach in a black school.
Walter McAfee persevered. His family
background, his stay at Wiley, his continued
communication with one or more of his
teachers from Wiley, plus his own awareness
of what he had mastered seem to me to be
the chief support for this perseverance. My
father maintained a lifelong correspondence
with his first physics teacher, Professor
McCane of Wiley College, and, so far as I can
tell, relied heavily on his advice and support
while at Ohio State.
In his own speech, my father stressed two
things: (1) mastery of your subject matter;
and (2) perseverance. Before he went on to
Cornell University, but after he left Ohio
State, my father worked his way through
several physics books. He was determined to
master the subject matter whether or not his
dream of a Ph.D. was achieved.
My father went to work as a civilian em-
ployee of the Army in 1942 or so. He retired
in 1985. He died in February of 1995. He is
best known, I guess, for his mathematical
calculations for Project Diana, which in-
volved bouncing radar off the moon. This
success has been said to mark the beginning
of the Space Age. As you can see, he had a l-
o-n-g career with the Army. I will not try to
summarize that career. For one thing, while
he could and would talk about physics in
general, he couldn’t and didn’t talk about
most of the specifics of his job. I do know
that, late in his career with the Army, he did
some traveling to NATO, and once he men-
tioned ‘‘night vision.’’
In the 1950s, my father was recognized by
President Eisenhower for his work on
Project Diana. In 1997, about two and a half
years after my father’s death, the Army
named a building, actually a complex of
buildings, ‘‘McAfee Center.’’ McAfee Center
was located at Fort Monmouth, N.J., and, we
are told, the designation was a first at Fort
Monmouth for a civilian employee of the
Army. After the Fort was scheduled for clo-
sure, a cluster of buildings at Aberdeen Prov-
ing Grounds in Maryland, was named in his
honor.
Still, to have his name here in this Post
Office, a central public building, in the place
he called home, raised his family, honed his
scientific skills and contributed to major
space exploration—this moment provides a
singular pride and satisfaction for so many
of his family and friends and colleagues.
I thank you for allowing me to share my
thoughts.
EXCERPTS OF REMARKS BY DR. LEO CECIL
MCAFEE, JR.
Good Morning,
My name is Leo McAfee. I am a nephew of
Dr. Walter McAfee. My role today is to rep-
resent the non-immediate family of Uncle
Walter.
In this role, first I would like to acknowl-
edge the birth family of Uncle Walter, in-
cluding his mother Susie McAfee and father
Luther McAfee.
Uncle Walter was born into a family of 9
children to become youth and adults. There
were 6 sons and 3 daughters, each attended
college. Seven or 8 of the siblings earned
bachelor’s degrees in the Mathematics and
Science fields. One of the mathematically
oriented siblings is with us today, Aunt
Velma, the youngest daughter, who was
blessed to just celebrate her 90th birthday in
Houston, Texas on Saturday, August 10th,
2019. Please recognize Aunt Velma, the only
surviving sibling of Uncle Walter.
Now for some impact of Uncle Walter in
the lives of our family.
First, Uncle Walter impacted me person-
ally.
I knew Uncle Walter’s Family because of
their visits to Grandmother Susie McAfee in
Marshall, Texas. We would travel to Mar-
shall to visit with Aunt Vi, Mercedes, Mar-
sha and Uncle Walter. Since I was under age
10, Uncle Walter was only slightly known to
me.
Vividly I remember a day at my elemen-
tary school; I was a fifth/sixth grade student
at the time. My father, school Principal of
my elementary school, proudly showed us a
newspaper article reporting that Uncle Wal-
ter was a recipient of a Secretary of the
Army Presidential Fellowship. This event is
vivid in my memory because I decided I
wanted to earn a Ph.D. and be a scientist,
though I did not know the career of a sci-
entist or of an engineer or for any other pro-
fessional career other than educator/teacher.
That event and day has remained etched and
stored in the forefront in my memory for
perhaps 63 years now.
Well I did not become a scientist, but I did
earn a Ph.D. in electrical engineering in 1970
at the University of Michigan and became
the first American of African heritage to be-
come a faculty member in the College of En-
gineering at the University of Michigan.
Now, I will tell you a bit of my journey as
mentored by Uncle Walter.
Jump ahead nine or ten years to summer
1965. As a student in the middle of my junior
level in college, I accepted a summer job in
Poughkeepsie, NY at IBM semiconductor de-
velopment/manufacturing facility.
Being in New York, I was encouraged to
contact my nearby relative, Uncle Walter.
To visit, Uncle Walter tried to get me to
catch a train or a bus to visit Aunt Vi and
him in South Belmar. He quickly realized
that this ‘‘country boy’’ was hopeless to use
public transportation in the NY/NJ region.
He arranged to drive to Poughkeepsie to pick
me up to stay a weekend at their home; and
then take me back to Poughkeepsie at the
end of that weekend.
During that weekend, we discussed my aca-
demic record and educational ventures and
education goals. Also, we discussed areas of
electrical engineering I Preferred (circuits,
electronics, semiconductors). Well, semicon-
ductor physics was one of the classes Uncle
Walter taught, a class I looked forward to
taking. That connection engaged conversa-
tions. Also, he knew much about electronics,
he being in the Communications-Electronics
Command (CECOM) at Fort Monmouth.
Either that weekend or during another
weekend visit, Uncle Walter decided that I
was a serious student. He encouraged me to
transfer to Monmouth College. He offered
that Aunt Vi and he would pay for my edu-
cation expenses, so my education would be
more fundamentally sound based in physics
and semiconductor devices.
My viewpoint was that in another 14
months, I would be able to start graduate
study at a top university in the United
States, and would be able to strengthen my
fundamentals. After further discussion,
Uncle Walter seemed to accept my view-
point.
During summers 1968, 1969, 1971, I had sum-
mer positions at Bell Labs in Murray Hill,
NJ and IBM in Yorktown Heights, NY twice,
the two superior industry research labs in
the United States. Again, for each summer, I
was near Uncle Walter and Aunt Vi. Uncle
Walter and I had numerous mentoring con-
tacts during those three summers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:13 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE8.015 E09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1112 September 9, 2019
After I started my 40-year faculty career at
the University of Michigan, in the early
1970’s, Uncle Walter visited researchers at
the University of Michigan, including man-
aging a project at the Willow Run Labora-
tories that was the site for highly confiden-
tial research. During his visit, we had some
serious career decisions discussions. Though
I liked circuits and electronics, many top
electrical engineers thought those fields
were past their hey-day. I clearly remember
Uncle Walter telling me to stick to the areas
that I liked, and that my work would find
more than enough rich areas to study and to
make contributions. Again, he was correct. I
was part of the pioneering field of numerical
mathematical computer modeling of circuits
and semiconductor electronic devices.
Next, Uncle Walter impacted three genera-
tions in the McAfee (and Lester) family.
He impacted the first generation—the
nieces and nephews of Uncle Walter—which
included me, my siblings, McAfee first cous-
ins, and the Lester first cousins.
He impacted the second generation—the
grand-nieces and grand-nephews of Uncle
Walter. Each of my three children did a re-
port on Uncle Walter several years in ele-
mentary, middle, and high school. Children
of my siblings did reports on Uncle Walter.
And children of first cousins did reports on
Uncle Walter, even children of first cousins
on my mother’s side (Lester) did reports.
He impacted the third generation—the
great-grand-nieces and great-grand-nephews
of Uncle Walter. Children of grand-nieces &
grand-nephews are still doing reports on
Uncle Walter.
Uncle Walter had major notoriety regard-
ing the moon with his contributions in
Project Diana. Just last month, NASA, the
USA, and the world celebrated the 50th anni-
versary of first landing on the moon by hu-
mans, partially made possible by the work of
Uncle Walter in Project Diana.
In closing, a bit of Big Ten conference
razzing, hopefully humor for sports fans.
As a family, my children and I are die-
heart University of Michigan alumni; we
bleed U–M maize and blue. The one strike/
complaint against Uncle Walter is his at-
tending Ohio State University, U–M’s arch
Big Ten rival in all collegiate sports, espe-
cially football.
In baseball terminology, attending Ohio
State was initially a called strike against
Uncle Walter. However, Uncle Walter ‘‘hit a
home-run out the park’’ with his spectacular
technical and personal family successes.
Thank you.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF DIXIE GREEN
BEING NAMED THE 2019 ALA-
BAMA FARM OF DISTINCTION
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I ask for the House’s attention to recognize
Dixie Green, Inc. of Cherokee County for
being named Alabama’s Farm of Distinction.
The honor was awarded in Birmingham,
Alabama in April. The owners of Dixie Green,
Hank and Shelia Richardson, will represent
Alabama in the Southeastern Farmer of the
Year contest.
Dixie Green is a greenhouse business
known for poinsettias and other plants. The
family business has almost 12 acres of heated
greenhouse space and eight acres of outside
plant pads. They provide poinsettias for places
like Opryland and Disney World.
Madam Speaker, please join me in recog-
nizing the Richardson Family and Dixie Green
on this honor.
f
FINANCIAL NET WORTH
HON. F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR.
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. SENSENBRENNER. Madam Speaker,
through the following statement, I am making
my financial net worth as of March 31, 2019,
a matter of public record. I have filed similar
statements for each of the forty preceding
years I have served in the Congress.
ASSETS
REAL PROPERTY
Single family residence at 609 Ft. Williams
Parkway, City of Alexandria, Virginia, at as-
sessed valuation. (Assessed at $1,163,438).
Ratio of assessed to market value: 100%
(Unencumbered): $1,163,438.00.
Condominium at N76 W14726 North Point
Drive, Village of Menomonee Falls,
Waukesha County, Wisconsin, at assessor’s
estimated market value. (Unencumbered):
$145,100.00.
Undivided 25/44ths interest in single family
Residence at N52 W32654 Maple Lane, Village
of Chenequa, Waukesha County, Wisconsin,
at 25/44ths of assessor’s estimated market
value of $1,540,700: $875,397.73.
Total Real Property: $2,183,935.73.
Common & Preferred
Stock
# of shares $ per share Value
Abbott Laboratories,
Inc. ........................... 12200 79.94 975,268.00
AbbVie Inc. ................... 7191 80.59 579,522.69
Allstate Corporation ..... 370 94.18 34,846.60
AT&T ............................. 7275 31.36 228,144.00
JP Morgan Chase ......... 4539 101.23 459,482.97
Benton County Mining
Company .................. 333 0.00 0.00
BP PLC ......................... 3604 43.72 157,566.88
Centerpoint Energy ....... 300 30.70 9,210.00
Chemours Company ..... 240 37.16 8,918.40
Chenequa Country Club
Realty Co. ................ 1 0.00 0.00
Cigna ............................ 1427 160.82 229,490.14
Comcast ....................... 1268 39.98 50,694.64
Darden Restaurants,
Inc. ........................... 2160 121.47 262,375.20
Discover Financial Serv-
ices .......................... 156 71.66 11,178.96
DowDuPont Inc. ............ 1538 53.31 81 ,990.78
Eastman Chemical Co. 540 75.88 40,975.20
Exxon Mobil Corp. ......... 9728 80.80 786,022.40
Four Corners Property
Trust Inc. ................. 983 29.60 29,096.80
Gartner Inc. .................. 651 151.68 98,743.68
General Electric Co. ..... 15600 9.99 155,844.00
General Mills, Inc. ........ 5760 51.75 298,080.00
NRG Energy .................. 28 42.48 1,189.44
GlassBridge Ent. .......... 9 0.20 1.80
Kellogg Corp. ................ 3200 57.38 183,616.00
3M Company ................ 2000 207.78 415,560.00
Moody’s ......................... 5000 181.09 905,450.00
Morgan Stanley ............ 312 42.20 13,166.40
NCR Corp. ..................... 68 27.29 1,855.72
Newell Rubbermaid ...... 1676 15.34 25,709.84
Nokia ............................ 74 5.72 423.28
PG & E Corp. ................ 175 17.80 3,115.00
Pfizer ............................ 30415 42.47 1,291,725.05
Tenneco Inc. ................. 182 22.16 4,033.12
Unisys Corp. ................. 16 11.67 186.72
US Bancorp .................. 3081 48.19 148,473.39
Verizon .......................... 2002 59.13 118,378.26
Vodafone Group PLC .... 323 18.18 5,872.14
WEC Energy Group ....... 2044 79.08 161,639.52
Wabtec .......................... 84 73.72 6,192.48
Total common &
preferred
stocks & bonds ........................ ........................ $7,784,039.50
Life Insurance Policies Face $ Surrender $
Northwestern Mutual #00 ........................... 12,000.00 142,588.93
Northwestern Mutual #61 ........................... 30,000.00 343,277.97
Massachusetts Mutual #75 ........................ 10,000.00 20,845.51
Massachusetts Mutual #44 ........................ 100,000.00 573,873.11
American General Life Ins. #59L ................ 175,000.00 36,085.16
Total life insurance policies .............. .................... $1,116,670.68
Bank & IRA Accounts Balance
JP Morgan Chase Bank, checking account ............................. 113,409.84
JP Morgan Chase Bank, savings account ............................... 675,475.80
BMO Harris Bank, checking account ....................................... 8,689.42
Burke & Herbert Bank, Alexandria, VA, checking account ..... 4,983.54
JP Morgan, IRA account ........................................................... 146,842.13
Total bank & IRA accounts ............................................ $949,400.73
Miscellaneous Value
2009 Ford Taurus .............................................................. 4,273.00
2013 Ford Taurus .............................................................. 10,024.00
Office furniture & equipment (estimated) ........................ 1,000.00
Furniture, clothing & personal property (estimated) ........ 170,000.00
Stamp collection (estimated) ............................................ 230,000.00
Deposits in Congressional Retirement Fund ..................... 260,894.57
Deposits in Federal Thrift Savings Plan ........................... 667,528.85
Traveler’s checks ............................................................... 7,800.00
17 ft. Boston Whaler boat & 70 hp Johnson outboard
motor (estimated) .......................................................... 4,200.00
20 ft. Pontoon boat & 40 hp Mercury outboard motor
(estimated) .................................................................... 7,000.00
Total Miscellaneous .................................................. $1,362,720.42
Total Assets ..................................................... $13,396,767.06
Liabilities: None.
Total Liabilities: $0.00.
Net Worth: $13,396,767.06.
STATEMENT OF 2018 TAXES PAID
Federal Income Tax ................................................................ $294,489.00
Wisconsin Income Tax ............................................................ $74,976.00
Menomonee Falls, WI Property Tax ........................................ $2,170.00
Chenequa, WI Property Tax .................................................... $17,819.00
Alexandria, VA Property Tax ................................................... $15,903.00
I further declare that I am trustee of a
trust established under the will of my late
father, Frank James Sensenbrenner, Sr., for
the benefit of my sister, Margaret A. Sensen-
brenner, and of my two sons, F. James Sen-
senbrenner, III, and Robert Alan Sensen-
brenner. I am further the direct beneficiary
of five trusts, but have no control over the
assets of either trust.
Also, I am neither an officer nor a director
of any corporation organized under the laws
of the State of Wisconsin or of any other
state or foreign country.
F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, Jr.,
Member of Congress.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE LIFE OF
JAMES JOSEPH MCCARTHY
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I ask for the House’s attention to recognize
the life of James Joseph McCarthy.
Jim was born in Boston to Joseph and Anne
McCarthy and sister, Louise (McCarthy)
Faulstich. He was an allstar-football and bas-
ketball player in high school. He graduated
from Suffolk University and served in the
United States Army from January 1946
through June 1947.
Jim worked as a successful insurance exec-
utive and was best known for his 29 years on
‘‘The Sports Huddle.’’ This weekly radio show
was a raucous, call-in program with up to
20,000 callers on any given night.
One of many memorable antics was when
he and his two partners, life-long friend, Mark
Witkin and Eddie Andelman, placed a live call
to Buckingham Palace to ask if the New Eng-
land Patriots could exchange two of their
guards for two of theirs. ‘‘The Sports Huddle’’
also publicly accused President Nixon of ‘‘first
degree oversight’’ after he neglected to con-
gratulate the Bruins for their Stanley Cup Vic-
tory. Thousands of listeners sent letters to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:13 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09SE8.016 E09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1113
September 9, 2019
White House demanding action and shortly
after, the Bruins received a congratulatory
telegram from President Nixon along with a
declaration that the Boston Bruins were num-
ber one.
Jim was also part owner and president of
Foxboro Raceway which was eventually sold
to become part of Gillette Stadium.
He loved to read, run on Nantasket beach,
travel with Patricia and play tennis with his
buddies. He was handsome with blue eyes
that twinkled and was always impeccably
dressed. He loved the saltwater and his idea
of bliss was a hotdog, a cold beer and the
sea. He was a devoted and adoring husband,
father and grandfather and will be missed
dearly.
One of his seven grandchildren, Ethan,
works for me in Washington. A celebration of
Jim’s life will be held September 11th.
Madam Speaker, please join me in remem-
bering the life of James Joseph McCarthy.
f
HONORING MS. ALLISON F.
STILLER, UNITED STATES NAVY
HON. JOE COURTNEY
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. COURTNEY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Ms. Allison F. Stiller, who is re-
tiring from the Department of the Navy after
more than 30 years of faithful civilian service
to our nation, culminating as the Principal Ci-
vilian Deputy to the Assistant Secretary of the
Navy for Research, Development & Acquisi-
tion, ASN(RD&A), for the past four years.
Ms. Stiller’s contributions to the Department
of the Navy have been numerous. Her respon-
sibilities include oversight and policy for Navy
and Marine Corps research, development, and
acquisition programs for shipbuilding, aviation,
space, weapon systems, ground vehicles, mu-
nitions, and communication systems. This
portfolio includes oversight of more than
100,000 people with an annual budget in ex-
cess of $50 billion as well as hundreds of
technical developments and procurement pro-
grams for the Department of the Navy. Ms.
Stiller served as the acting ASN(RD&A) from
January through July 2017, and leads the De-
partment’s Senior Executive Acquisition Corps.
She is also the proud ship sponsor for USS
Mississippi (SSN 782).
In performing her duties as Deputy to
ASN(RD&A), Ms. Stiller regularly appeared
before the House Armed Services Committee
and the Seapower and Projection Forces sub-
committee, which I chair, consistently offering
valuable insight and testimony and enhancing
Congressional understanding of the programs
under her purview. She has been a true advo-
cate for the Navy, and I can attest that my col-
leagues and I very much appreciated and ben-
efited from her expertise.
Ms. Stiller entered the Senior Executive
Service in January 2004. Prior to her current
position, she served as the Deputy Assistant
Secretary of the Navy for Ship Programs. In
this capacity, she was responsible for execu-
tive oversight of all naval shipbuilding and as-
sociated weapon systems programs, major
ship conversions, and nuclear ship refuelings,
as well as the maintenance, modernization
and disposal of in-service ships. During her
tenure, 96 ships and submarines were placed
under contract and 70 ships and submarines
were delivered to the operational Fleet, rep-
resenting approximately 25 percent of today’s
operational battle force.
Ms. Stiller has served in a number of ship-
building acquisition positions throughout her
career where she led in the development and
procurement of complex ship programs in mul-
tiple phases of the acquisition life cycle. She
served for four years as the Deputy Program
Manager in the Amphibious Warfare Program
Office, responsible for design, development,
acquisition, and fleet introduction of amphib-
ious ships and landing craft. Ms. Stiller also
served as Director for Naval and Commercial
Construction in the Office of the Assistant
Secretary of the Navy for Ship Programs
where her responsibilities included oversight of
amphibious and auxiliary ship construction and
conversion programs, as well as shipbuilding
industrial base matters. During her tenure, Ms.
Stiller helped develop and promote initiatives
that focused the nation’s shipbuilding industry
towards commercial viability. Ms. Stiller also
served as Acquisition Manager in the early
phases of the Virginia Class Submarine Pro-
gram, as well as division director in the
Seawolf Submarine program during the design
and early construction phases of that program.
Ms. Stiller holds a BS in Systems Engineer-
ing from the University of Virginia and a MS in
Engineering Management from Virginia Tech.
She is also a graduate of the John F. Ken-
nedy School of Government’s Senior Execu-
tive Fellows Program at Harvard University
and the Defense Systems Management Col-
lege.
Throughout her career, Ms. Stiller’s leader-
ship and performance has been recognized by
numerous awards including the Presidential
Rank Award (Distinguished and Meritorious)
and the Department of the Navy’s Superior
and Meritorious Civilian Service awards.
I am proud to recognize Ms. Stiller, and I
thank her and her family for her honorable
service to our nation. Madam Speaker, I ask
my colleagues to join me in wishing Ms. Alli-
son Stiller ‘fair winds and following seas’ as
she concludes a distinguished career of public
service.
f
RECOGNITION OF MALCOLM S.
MORRIS
HON. EARL BLUMENAUER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Malcolm S. Morris as
he ends his long chairmanship of the Millen-
nium Water Alliance, which he helped to found
seventeen years ago. His career is marked by
his astounding work for this country and for
millions of the world’s poorest people as a
longtime advocate for safe drinking water and
sanitation.
The Alliance is unique in the global water
sector—it includes as members fifteen leading
U.S. charities that help international govern-
ments and other organizations bring safe
drinking water and sanitation systems to mil-
lions in Africa, Latin America, the Middle East,
and Asia. It forges new relationships to accel-
erate this effort, and works with USAID to help
advance America’s interest in reducing poverty
and increasing stability and opportunity for mil-
lions.
Malcolm advocated for water as the founda-
tion of development and for peace building at
a time when the U.S. Government was paying
little attention to this issue. In particular, Mal-
colm has been a strong voice among his fel-
low conservative Republicans, urging more of
them to join in this effort, and to seek common
ground with those of us across the aisle in
supporting foreign assistance to truly help ad-
vance our common goals in the world.
His first step was to set up an international
faith-based NGO in his home state of Texas,
and to recruit colleagues and friends who
were equally passionate. Under his leadership,
some gave up well-paying jobs to do ‘‘God’s
work’’. To this day that NGO, Living Water, or-
ganizes mission trips to introduce people first-
hand to the potential and challenges of devel-
opment work—work that increases the reputa-
tion and soft power of the United States, com-
munity by community.
Realizing that the private sector was a rel-
atively untapped source of funding for water
work, Malcolm organized a ‘‘Millennium Water
Challenge’’ in 2002. As a CEO active in the
national business community, he invited his
fellow CEOs to join him at an event in Hous-
ton. A number of CEOs turned up and many
more sent representatives, setting an early ex-
ample in involving major corporations in water,
sanitation, and hygiene issues. Because of his
leadership, several well-known U.S. corpora-
tions and brands are now involved in global
efforts to address water, sanitation, and hy-
giene.
Perhaps, Malcolm’s greatest contribution
has been his insistence that USAID should
play a bigger role in increasing access to
water in the developing world. He believed
that the U.S. Government, U.S. corporations,
and U.S. civil society together could make a
significant contribution to addressing the chal-
lenges facing millions of the world poorest
people. In 2002 he founded the Millennium
Water Alliance, with the objective of trans-
forming people’s lives through improving ac-
cess to safe water, improved sanitation, and
good hygiene practices.
Malcolm then played a major role with oth-
ers in the helping to pass the 2005 Paul
Simon Water for the Poor Act and devoted
much of his time to encouraging members of
Congress to fund this legislation. He also
worked with the Alliance and used his political
connections both in the U.S. and overseas to
set up innovative water, sanitation, and hy-
giene programming in Kenya, Ethiopia and
Central America.
His enduring legacy is someone who built
up political capital as an innovative business
leader and used a significant part of that cap-
ital for the benefit of poor and marginalized
people in the developing world. It is, as he
would say, ‘‘God’s work’’.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 50TH
WEDDING ANNIVERSARY OF
HENRY AND LONA MULLINAX
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I ask for the House’s attention to recognize
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:13 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09SE8.020 E09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1114 September 9, 2019
the 50th wedding anniversary of Henry and
Lona Mullinax.
Henry and Lona were married on August
29, 1969, at Sacred Heart Catholic Church in
Anniston, Alabama, and spent their honey-
moon in Gatlinburg, Tennessee.
Lona transferred from Oxford High School to
Walter Wellborn High School in 1967 where
Henry was in school. The first time Henry saw
Lona, she was walking the length of the foot-
ball field on her hands. She was a cheerleader
and Henry was a football player. They began
dating in February of 1969 and have been to-
gether ever since.
Henry attended college while working at
Food Town Groceries and Lona worked for
Western Super Markets in the home office in
Birmingham, Alabama. They leased a 12-unit
motel in early 1970 where Henry would attend
college in the mornings, had the domestic help
handle the office until returning at noon and
then ran the office, did the maintenance and
rented the rooms all afternoon and throughout
the night. They lived in a 12 × 12 room with
a small kitchenette behind the check-in
counter for a year. Henry then got a job with
Dresser Industries (M&H Valve) who paid
every dime of his education. He later moved
on to the car business and today owns
Mullinax Auto Sales and serves as President
of the National Independent Automobile Deal-
ers Association.
Lona and Henry are blessed with two
daughters and two grandchildren. For their
50th wedding anniversary, they are taking a
trip to Denali in Alaska and will go to Fair-
banks for a week-long cruise with family and
friends. They will renew their vows with the
Captain of the ship.
Madam Speaker, please join me in recog-
nizing this milestone for my good friends
Henry and Lona. Congratulations.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, Sep-
tember 10, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
SEPTEMBER 11
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine protecting
the nation’s transportation systems,
focusing on oversight of the Transpor-
tation Security Administration.
SD–G50
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Aurelia Skipwith, of Indiana,
to be Director of the United States
Fish and Wildlife Service, Department
of the Interior, and Katherine Andrea
Lemos, of California, to be Chairperson
of the Chemical Safety and Hazard In-
vestigation Board.
SD–406
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Steven J. Menashi, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the
Second Circuit, Karen S. Marston, to
be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Rich-
ard E. Myers II, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District
of North Carolina, and Anuraag
Singhal, to be United States District
Judge for the Southern District of
Florida.
SD–226
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe
To hold hearings to examine the state of
diversity and inclusion in Europe, fo-
cusing on race, rights, and politics.
CHOB–210
2:15 p.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs
To hold hearings to examine fragility in
the Sahel.
SD–124
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
Subcommittee on Energy
To hold hearings to examine S. 607, to
amend the Department of Energy Orga-
nization Act to address insufficient
compensation of employees and other
personnel of the Federal Energy Regu-
latory Commission, S. 1739, to enable
projects that will aid in the develop-
ment and delivery of related instruc-
tion associated with apprenticeship
and preapprenticeship programs that
are focused on serving the skilled tech-
nical workforce at the National Lab-
oratories and certain facilities of the
National Nuclear Security Administra-
tion, S. 1821, to amend the Energy Inde-
pendence and Security Act of 2007 to
provide for research on, and the devel-
opment and deployment of, marine en-
ergy, S. 2094, to amend the Energy Pol-
icy and Conservation Act to provide
Federal financial assistance to States
to implement State energy security
plans, S. 2095, to provide for certain
programs and developments in the De-
partment of Energy concerning the cy-
bersecurity and vulnerabilities of, and
physical threat to, the electric grid, S.
2137, to promote energy savings in resi-
dential buildings and industry, S. 2300,
to amend the Energy Independence and
Security Act of 2007 to establish a pro-
gram to incentivize innovation and to
enhance the industrial competitiveness
of the United States by developing
technologies to reduce emissions of
nonpower industrial sectors, S. 2368, to
amend the Atomic Energy Act of 1954
and the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to
support licensing and relicensing of
certain nuclear facilities and nuclear
energy research, demonstration, and
development, and S. 2393, to promote a
21st century energy workforce.
SD–366
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property
To hold hearings to examine innovation
in America, focusing on how Congress
can make our patent system stronger.
SD–226
SEPTEMBER 12
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine the ex-
pected nominations of Ryan D. McCar-
thy, to be Secretary of the Army, and
Barbara M. Barrett, to be Secretary of
the Air Force, both of the Department
of Defense.
SD–G50
10 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine develop-
ments in global insurance regulatory
and supervisory forums.
SD–538
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe
To hold hearings to examine autocratic
abuse of INTERPOL.
CHOB–210
10:30 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Business meeting to markup an original
bill making appropriations for the De-
partment of Defense for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, an original
bill making appropriations for Energy
and Water Development for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2020, an
original bill making appropriations for
the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
an original bill making appropriations
for the Department of Labor, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services,
Department of Education, and Related
Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and 302(b) sub-
committee allocations of budget out-
lays and new budget authority allo-
cated to the committee in H. Con. Res.
71, establishing the congressional budg-
et for the United States Government
for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth
the appropriate budgetary levels for
fiscal years 2019 through 2027.
SD–106
2 p.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
To hold closed hearings to examine cer-
tain intelligence matters.
SH–219
SEPTEMBER 17
2:30 p.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition
Policy and Consumer Rights
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
enforcement of the antitrust laws.
SD–226
SEPTEMBER 24
2:30 p.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition
Policy and Consumer Rights
To hold hearings to examine competition
in digital technology markets, focusing
on acquisitions of nascent or potential
competitors by digital platforms.
SD–226
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:13 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09SE8.023 E09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D974
Monday, September 9, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
See Résumés of Congressional Activity (July and August).
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S5345–S5372
Measures Introduced: Six bills and one resolution
were introduced, as follows: S. 2443–2448, and S.J.
Res. 53. Page S5360
Measures Reported:
Reported on Friday, August 16, during the ad-
journment:
H.R. 1138, to reauthorize the West Valley dem-
onstration project. (S. Rept. No. 116–69)
S. 143, to authorize the Department of Energy to
conduct collaborative research with the Department
of Veterans Affairs in order to improve healthcare
services for veterans in the United States. (S. Rept.
No. 116–70)
S. 174, to provide for the establishment of a pilot
program to identify security vulnerabilities of certain
entities in the energy sector, with an amendment. (S.
Rept. No. 116–71)
S. 520, to require the Secretary of Energy to es-
tablish an energy efficiency materials pilot program,
with an amendment. (S. Rept. No. 116–72)
S. 816, to amend the Natural Gas Act to expedite
approval of exports of small volumes of natural gas.
(S. Rept. No. 116–73)
S. 1052, to authorize the Office of Fossil Energy
to develop advanced separation technologies for the
extraction and recovery of rare earth elements and
minerals from coal and coal byproducts, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute. (S. Rept.
No. 116–74)
S. 1064, to require the Secretary of Energy to con-
duct a study on the national security implications of
building ethane and other natural-gas-liquids-related
petrochemical infrastructure in the United States,
with an amendment. (S. Rept. No. 116–75)
S. 1286, to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005
to facilitate the commercialization of energy and re-
lated technologies developed at Department of En-
ergy facilities with promising commercial potential.
(S. Rept. No. 116–76)
S. 494, to establish the American Fisheries Advi-
sory Committee to assist in the awarding of fisheries
research and development grants. (S. Rept. No.
116–77)
S. 737, to direct the National Science Foundation
to support STEM education research focused on early
childhood. (S. Rept. No. 116–78)
S. 1494, to amend the William Wilberforce Traf-
ficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of
2008 to protect alien minors and to amend the Im-
migration and Nationality Act to end abuse of the
asylum system and establish refugee application and
processing centers outside the United States, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute.
Reported on Monday, September 9:
S. 1207, to approve the settlement of the water
rights claims of the Navajo Nation in Utah. (S.
Rept. No. 116–79) Pages S5359–60
Measures Passed:
Authorizing the Use of Emancipation Hall: Sen-
ate agreed to H. Con. Res. 57, authorizing the use
of Emancipation Hall for an event to commemorate
the 400th anniversary of the arrival of the first Afri-
can slaves to the territory that would become the
United States. Page S5364
Reviving America’s Scenic Byways Act: Senate
passed S. 349, to require the Secretary of Transpor-
tation to request nominations for, and make deter-
minations regarding, roads to be designated under
the national scenic byways program, after agreeing to
the committee amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute. Page S5366
Drinking Water Revolving Fund: Senate passed
S. 1689, to permit States to transfer certain funds
from the clean water revolving fund of a State to the
drinking water revolving fund of the State in certain
circumstances. Page S5367
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:35 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09SE9.REC D09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D975
September 9, 2019
Reviving America’s Scenic Byways Act: Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works was dis-
charged from further consideration of H.R. 831, to
direct the Secretary of Transportation to request
nominations for and make determinations regarding
roads to be designated under the national scenic by-
ways program, and the bill was then passed.
Page S5367
Craft Nomination—Agreement: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of Kelly Craft, of
Kentucky, to be Representative of the United States
of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly
of the United Nations during her tenure of service
as Representative of the United States of America to
the United Nations, Department of State.
Pages S5346–53
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 54 yeas to 38 nays (Vote No. EX. 263), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Pages S5352–53
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that notwithstanding Rule XXII, the post-
cloture time on the nomination expire at 11:50 a.m.,
on Tuesday, September 10, 2019; that if cloture is
invoked on the nomination of Elizabeth Darling, of
Texas, to be Commissioner on Children, Youth, and
Families, Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices, the post-cloture time expire at 2:15 p.m.; and
that notwithstanding Rule XXII, following disposi-
tion of the nomination of Elizabeth Darling, Senate
vote on the motions to invoke cloture on the nomi-
nations of Stephen Akard, of Indiana, to be Director
of the Office of Foreign Missions, with the rank of
Ambassador, Department of State, Dale Cabaniss, of
Virginia, to be Director of the Office of Personnel
Management, and James Byrne, of Virginia, to be
Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Page S5353
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 10:00 a.m., on Tues-
day, September 10, 2019. Page S5364
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Barbara McConnell Barrett, of Arizona, to be Sec-
retary of the Air Force.
Ryan McCarthy, of Illinois, to be Secretary of the
Army.
Robert John Sander, of Virginia, to be General
Counsel of the Department of the Navy.
Sandra E. Clark, of Maryland, to be Ambassador
to Burkina Faso.
Kelly C. Degnan, of California, to be Ambassador
to Georgia.
Peter M. Haymond, of Virginia, to be Ambassador
to the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
Rahkel Bouchet, of the District of Columbia, to
be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the
District of Columbia for the term of fifteen years.
Owen McCurdy Cypher, of Michigan, to be
United States Marshal for the Eastern District of
Michigan for the term of four years.
David M. DeVillers, of Ohio, to be United States
Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio for the
term of four years.
Jodi W. Dishman, of Oklahoma, to be United
States District Judge for the Western District of
Oklahoma.
Thomas L. Leonard III, of Michigan, to be United
States Attorney for the Western District of Michigan
for the term of four years.
Karen Spencer Marston, of Pennsylvania, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania.
Steven J. Menashi, of New York, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit.
Richard Earnest Myers II, of North Carolina, to
be United States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of North Carolina.
Sarah E. Pitlyk, of Missouri, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri.
Anuraag Singhal, of Florida, to be United States
District Judge for the Southern District of Florida.
Ralph Ignatius Sozio, of New York, to be United
States Marshal for the Southern District of New
York for the term of four years.
3 Air Force nominations in the rank of general.
1 Army nomination in the rank of general.
3 Navy nominations in the rank of admiral.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, and Navy.
Pages S5367–72
Nominations Withdrawn: Senate received notifica-
tion of withdrawal of the following nominations:
Mina Chang, of Texas, to be an Assistant Admin-
istrator of the United States Agency for International
Development, which was sent to the Senate on Janu-
ary 16, 2019.
Michael J. Astrue, of Massachusetts, to be a Mem-
ber of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term
expiring September 30, 2022, which was sent to the
Senate on January 16, 2019. Page S5372
Messages from the House: Page S5359
Measures Referred: Page S5359
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S5360–64
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Page S5364
Additional Statements: Pages S5357–58
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:35 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09SE9.REC D09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D976 September 9, 2019
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—263) Page S5353
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 6:38 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, Sep-
tember 10, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S5364.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 17 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 4243–4259; and 1 private bill, H.R.
4260 were introduced. Pages H7558–59
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H7559–60
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 2726, to amend title 49, United States
Code, to prohibit smoking on Amtrak trains (H.
Rept. 116–199); and
H. Res. 548, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 205) to amend the Gulf of Mexico Energy
Security Act of 2006 to permanently extend the
moratorium on leasing in certain areas of the Gulf
of Mexico; providing for consideration of the bill
(H.R. 1146) to amend Public Law 115–97 (com-
monly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act) to re-
peal the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge oil and gas
program, and for other purposes; and providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1941) to amend the
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to prohibit the
Secretary of the Interior including in any leasing
program certain planning areas, and for other pur-
poses (H. Rept. 116–200). Page H7558
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Clay to act as Speaker pro
tempore for today. Page H7539
Recess: The House recessed at 2:05 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4:30 p.m. Pages H7539–40
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Energy Efficient Government Technology Act:
H.R. 1420, amended, to amend the Energy Inde-
pendence and Security Act of 2007 to promote en-
ergy efficiency via information and computing tech-
nologies, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 384 yeas to 23
nays, Roll No. 515; Pages H7540–41, H7546–47
Diesel Emissions Reduction Act of 2019: H.R.
1768, to reauthorize subtitle G of title VII of the
Energy Policy Act of 2005, relating to diesel emis-
sions reduction, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 295
yeas to 114 nays, Roll No. 516; Pages H7541–43,
H7547–48
Enhancing State Energy Security Planning and
Emergency Preparedness Act of 2019: H.R. 2114,
to amend the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to
provide Federal financial assistance to States to im-
plement, review, and revise State energy security
plans; and Pages H7543–44
Advanced Nuclear Fuel Availability Act: H.R.
1760, to require the Secretary of Energy to establish
and carry out a program to support the availability
of HA–LEU for domestic commercial use.
Pages H7544–46
Recess: The House recessed at 5:10 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H7546
Consensus Calendar: Representative Thompson
(CA) presented to the clerk a motion to place on the
Consensus Calendar the bill H.R. 3589, to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to Greg LeMond, in rec-
ognition of his service to the Nation as an athlete,
activist, role model, and community leader, it having
accumulated 290 cosponsors. Page H7558
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H7546–47 and H7547–48. There were no
quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 2 p.m. and ad-
journed at 8:21 p.m.
Committee Meetings
PROTECTING AND SECURING FLORIDA’S
COASTLINE ACT OF 2019; ARCTIC
CULTURAL AND COASTAL PLAIN
PROTECTION ACT; COASTAL AND MARINE
ECONOMIES PROTECTION ACT
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 205, the ‘‘Protecting and Securing Florida’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:35 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09SE9.REC D09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D977
September 9, 2019
Coastline Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1146, the ‘‘Arctic Cul-
tural and Coastal Plain Protection Act’’; and H.R.
1941, the ‘‘Coastal and Marine Economies Protection
Act’’. The Committee granted, by record vote of
9–4, a rule providing for consideration of H.R. 205,
the ‘‘Protecting and Securing Florida’s Coastline Act
of 2019’’, H.R. 1146, the ‘‘Arctic Cultural and
Coastal Plain Protection Act’’, and H.R. 1941, the
‘‘Coastal and Marine Economies Protection Act’’. The
rule provides for consideration of H.R. 205, the
‘‘Protecting and Securing Florida’s Coastline Act of
2019’’, under a structured rule. The rule waives all
points of order against consideration of the bill. The
rule provides that an amendment in the nature of a
substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee
Print 116–29, modified by the amendment printed
in part A of the Rules Committee report, shall be
considered as adopted and the bill, as amended, shall
be considered as read. The rule waives all points of
order against provisions in the bill, as amended. The
rule makes in order only those amendments printed
in part B of the Rules Committee report accom-
panying the resolution. Each such amendment may
be offered only in the order printed in the report,
may be offered only by a Member designated in the
report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable
for the time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent,
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be
subject to a demand for division of the question. The
rule waives all points of order against the amend-
ments printed in part B of the report. The rule pro-
vides one motion to recommit with or without in-
structions. The rule provides for consideration of
H.R. 1146, the ‘‘Arctic Cultural and Coastal Plain
Protection Act’’, under a structured rule. The rule
provides one hour of general debate equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on Natural Resources.
The rule waives all points of order against consider-
ation of the bill. The rule provides that an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the
text of Rules Committee Print 116–30, modified by
the amendment printed in part C of the Rules Com-
mittee report, shall be considered as adopted and the
bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. The
rule waives all points of order against provisions in
the bill, as amended. The rule makes in order only
those amendments printed in part D of the Rules
Committee report accompanying the resolution. Each
such amendment may be offered only in the order
printed in the report, may be offered only by a
Member designated in the report, shall be considered
as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in
the report equally divided and controlled by the pro-
ponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand
for division of the question. The rule waives all
points of order against the amendments printed in
part D of the report. The rule provides one motion
to recommit with or without instructions. The rule
provides for consideration of H.R. 1941, the ‘‘Coast-
al and Marine Economies Protection Act’’, under a
structured rule. The rule provides one hour of gen-
eral debate equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources. The rule waives all
points of order against consideration of the bill. The
rule provides that an amendment in the nature of a
substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee
Print 116–31, modified by the amendment printed
in part E of the Rules Committee report, shall be
considered as adopted and the bill, as amended, shall
be considered as read. The rule waives all points of
order against provisions in the bill, as amended. The
rule makes in order only those amendments printed
in part F of the Rules Committee report accom-
panying the resolution. Each such amendment may
be offered only in the order printed in the report,
may be offered only by a Member designated in the
report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable
for the time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent,
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be
subject to a demand for division of the question. The
rule waives all points of order against the amend-
ments printed in part F of the report. The rule pro-
vides one motion to recommit with or without in-
structions. Testimony was heard from Representa-
tives Lowenthal, Bishop of Utah, Castor of Florida,
Rooney of Florida, and Lesko.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D949)
H.R. 3877, to amend the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, to establish
a congressional budget for fiscal years 2020 and
2021, to temporarily suspend the debt limit. Signed
on August 2, 2019. (Public Law 116–37)
S. 2249, to allow the Deputy Administrator of the
Federal Aviation Administration on the date of en-
actment of this Act to continue to serve as such
Deputy Administrator. Signed on August 2, 2019.
(Public Law 116–38)
H.R. 3253, to provide for certain extensions with
respect to the Medicaid program under title XIX of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:35 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09SE9.REC D09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D978 September 9, 2019
the Social Security Act. Signed on August 6, 2019.
(Public Law 116–39)
H.R. 1569, to amend title 28, United States
Code, to add Flagstaff and Yuma to the list of loca-
tions in which court shall be held in the judicial dis-
trict for the State of Arizona. Signed on August 9,
2019. (Public Law 116–40)
H.R. 2695, to rename the Success Dam in Tulare
County, California, as the Richard L. Schafer Dam.
Signed on August 9, 2019. (Public Law 116–41)
H.R. 540, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 770 Ayrault Road in
Fairport, New York, as the ‘‘Louise and Bob Slaugh-
ter Post Office’’. Signed on August 21, 2019. (Pub-
lic Law 116–42)
H.R. 828, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 25 Route 111 in
Smithtown, New York, as the ‘‘Congressman Bill
Carney Post Office’’. Signed on August 21, 2019.
(Public Law 116–43)
H.R. 829, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 1450 Montauk High-
way in Mastic, New York, as the ‘‘Army Specialist
Thomas J. Wilwerth Post Office Building’’. Signed
on August 21, 2019. (Public Law 116–44)
H.R. 1198, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 404 South Boulder
Highway in Henderson, Nevada, as the ‘‘Henderson
Veterans Memorial Post Office Building’’. Signed on
August 21, 2019. (Public Law 116–45)
H.R. 1449, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 3033 203rd Street in
Olympia Fields, Illinois, as the ‘‘Captain Robert L.
Martin Post Office’’. Signed on August 21, 2019.
(Public Law 116–46)
H.R. 3305, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 2509 George Mason
Drive in Virginia Beach, Virginia, as the ‘‘Ryan
Keith Cox Post Office Building’’. Signed on August
21, 2019. (Public Law 116–47)
H.R. 639, to amend section 327 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act to clarify that National Urban Search and Res-
cue Response System task forces may include Federal
employees. Signed on August 22, 2019. (Public Law
116–48)
H.R. 776, to amend the Public Health Service
Act to reauthorize the Emergency Medical Services
for Children program. Signed on August 22, 2019.
(Public Law 116–49)
H.R. 1079, to require the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget to issue guidance on
electronic consent forms. Signed on August 22,
2019. (Public Law 116–50)
H.R. 2336, to amend title 11, United States
Code, with respect to the definition of ‘‘family farm-
er’’. Signed on August 23, 2019. (Public Law
116–51)
H.R. 2938, to exempt from the calculation of
monthly income certain benefits paid by the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs and the Department of De-
fense. Signed on August 23, 2019. (Public Law
116–52)
H.R. 3304, to exempt for an additional 4-year pe-
riod, from the application of the means-test pre-
sumption of abuse under chapter 7, qualifying mem-
bers of reserve components of the Armed Forces and
members of the National Guard who, after Sep-
tember 11, 2001, are called to active duty or to per-
form a homeland defense activity for not less than
90 days. Signed on August 23, 2019. (Public Law
116–53)
H.R. 3311, to amend chapter 11 of title 11,
United States Code, to address reorganization of
small businesses. Signed on August 23, 2019. (Pub-
lic Law 116–54)
H.R. 1250, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 11158 Highway 146
North in Hardin, Texas, as the ‘‘Lucas Lowe Memo-
rial Post Office’’. Signed on August 23, 2019. (Pub-
lic Law 116–55)
H.R. 3245, to transfer a bridge over the Wabash
River to the New Harmony River Bridge Authority
and the New Harmony and Wabash River Bridge
Authority. Signed on August 23, 2019. (Public Law
116–56)
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 10, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ment of Defense, business meeting to markup an original
bill making appropriations for the Department of Defense
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, 10 a.m.,
SD–192.
Subcommittee on Departments of Labor, Health and
Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies,
business meeting to markup an original bill making ap-
propriations for the Department of Labor, Department of
Health and Human Services, Department of Education,
and Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending September
30, 2020, 11:30 a.m., SD–124.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: to
hold hearings to examine housing finance reform, focus-
ing on next steps, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to receive a closed brief-
ing on certain intelligence matters, 2:30 p.m., SH–219.
House
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies, oversight
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:35 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09SE9.REC D09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D979
September 9, 2019
hearing on the Department of Justice’s Community Rela-
tions Service, 10 a.m., H–309 Capitol.
Committee on Armed Services, Subcommittee on Intel-
ligence and Emerging Threats and Capabilities, and Sub-
committee on National Security of the House Committee
on Oversight and Reform, joint hearing entitled ‘‘Secur-
ing the Nation’s Internet and Architecture’’, 2 p.m.,
2118 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Health, hearing entitled ‘‘Improving Maternal Health:
Legislation to Advance Prevention Efforts and Access to
Care’’, 10 a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘A $1.5 Trillion Crisis: Protecting Student Bor-
rowers and Holding Student Loan Servicers Accountable’’,
10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on the
Western Hemisphere, Civilian Security, and Trade, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Preserving the Amazon: A Shared Moral
Imperative’’, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Global Terrorism: Threats to the Homeland,
Part I’’, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on House Administration, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of the Renovations of the
Cannon House Office Building’’, 10 a.m., 1310 Long-
worth.
Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on the Con-
stitution, Civil Rights, and Civil Liberties, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Evidence of Current and Ongoing Voting Discrimi-
nation’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Full Committee, markup on H.R. 1423, the ‘‘FAIR
Act’’; H.R. 1236, the ‘‘Extreme Risk Protection Order
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1186, the ‘‘Keep Americans Safe
Act’’; H.R. 2708, the ‘‘Disarm Hate Act’’; H.R. 4018, to
provide that the amount of time that an elderly offender
must serve before being eligible for placement in home
detention is to be reduced by the amount of good time
credits earned by the prisoner, and for other purposes;
and H.R. 2426, the ‘‘CASE Act of 2019’’, 2 p.m., 2141
Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Na-
tional Parks, Forests, and Public Lands, hearing entitled
‘‘BLM Disorganization: Examining the Proposed Reorga-
nization and Relocation of the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment Headquarters to Grand Junction, Colorado’’, 10
a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Subcommittee on En-
vironment, hearing entitled ‘‘The Devil They Knew:
PFAS Contamination and the Need for Corporate Ac-
countability, Part III’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Raising the Bar: Progress and
Future Needs in Forensic Science’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Rural
Development, Agriculture, Trade, and Entrepreneurship,
hearing entitled ‘‘Growing the Clean Energy Economy’’,
10 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Member Day Hearing’’, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Solving the Climate Crisis: Manufac-
turing Jobs for America’s Workers’’, 2 p.m., 1334 Long-
worth.
Joint Meetings
Joint Economic Committee: to hold hearings to examine
making it more affordable to raise a family, 2:30 p.m.,
SH–216.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of September 10 through September 13,
2019
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of
the nomination of Kelly Craft, of Kentucky, to be
Representative of the United States of America to
the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United
Nations during her tenure of service as Representa-
tive of the United States of America to the United
Nations, Department of State, post-cloture, and vote
on confirmation of the nomination at 11:50 a.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Kelly
Craft, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke clo-
ture on the nomination of Elizabeth Darling, of
Texas, to be Commissioner on Children, Youth, and
Families, Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices. If cloture is invoked on the nomination, Senate
will vote on confirmation of the nomination at 2:15
p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Eliza-
beth Darling, Senate will vote on the motions to in-
voke cloture on the nominations of Stephen Akard,
of Indiana, to be Director of the Office of Foreign
Missions, with the rank of Ambassador, Department
of State, Dale Cabaniss, of Virginia, to be Director
of the Office of Personnel Management, and James
Byrne, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Appropriations: September 10, Sub-
committee on Department of Defense, business meeting
to markup an original bill making appropriations for the
Department of Defense for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, 10 a.m., SD–192.
September 10, Subcommittee on Departments of
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and
Related Agencies, business meeting to markup an origi-
nal bill making appropriations for the Department of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:35 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09SE9.REC D09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D980 September 9, 2019
Labor, Department of Health and Human Services, De-
partment of Education, and Related Agencies for the fis-
cal year ending September 30, 2020, 11:30 a.m.,
SD–124.
September 11, Subcommittee on State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs, to hold hearings to exam-
ine fragility in the Sahel, 2:15 p.m., SD–124.
September 12, Full Committee, business meeting to
markup an original bill making appropriations for the
Department of Defense for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, an original bill making appropriations
for Energy and Water Development for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, an original bill making ap-
propriations for the Department of State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2020, an original bill making appropria-
tions for the Department of Labor, Department of Health
and Human Services, Department of Education, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and 302(b) subcommittee allocations of budget
outlays and new budget authority allocated to the com-
mittee in H. Con. Res. 71, establishing the congressional
budget for the United States Government for fiscal year
2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels
for fiscal years 2019 through 2027, 10:30 a.m., SD–106.
Committee on Armed Services: September 12, to hold hear-
ings to examine the expected nominations of Ryan D.
McCarthy, to be Secretary of the Army, and Barbara M.
Barrett, to be Secretary of the Air Force, both of the De-
partment of Defense, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: Sep-
tember 10, to hold hearings to examine housing finance
reform, focusing on next steps, 10 a.m., SD–538.
September 12, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine developments in global insurance regulatory and
supervisory forums, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sep-
tember 11, to hold hearings to examine protecting the
nation’s transportation systems, focusing on oversight of
the Transportation Security Administration, 10 a.m.,
SD–G50.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: September
11, Subcommittee on Energy, to hold hearings to exam-
ine S. 607, to amend the Department of Energy Organi-
zation Act to address insufficient compensation of em-
ployees and other personnel of the Federal Energy Regu-
latory Commission, S. 1739, to enable projects that will
aid in the development and delivery of related instruction
associated with apprenticeship and preapprenticeship pro-
grams that are focused on serving the skilled technical
workforce at the National Laboratories and certain facili-
ties of the National Nuclear Security Administration, S.
1821, to amend the Energy Independence and Security
Act of 2007 to provide for research on, and the develop-
ment and deployment of, marine energy, S. 2094, to
amend the Energy Policy and Conservation Act to pro-
vide Federal financial assistance to States to implement
State energy security plans, S. 2095, to provide for cer-
tain programs and developments in the Department of
Energy concerning the cybersecurity and vulnerabilities
of, and physical threat to, the electric grid, S. 2137, to
promote energy savings in residential buildings and in-
dustry, S. 2300, to amend the Energy Independence and
Security Act of 2007 to establish a program to incentivize
innovation and to enhance the industrial competitiveness
of the United States by developing technologies to reduce
emissions of nonpower industrial sectors, S. 2368, to
amend the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and the Energy
Policy Act of 2005 to support licensing and relicensing
of certain nuclear facilities and nuclear energy research,
demonstration, and development, and S. 2393, to pro-
mote a 21st century energy workforce, 2:30 p.m.,
SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: September
11, to hold hearings to examine the nominations of
Aurelia Skipwith, of Indiana, to be Director of the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of
the Interior, and Katherine Andrea Lemos, of California,
to be Chairperson of the Chemical Safety and Hazard In-
vestigation Board, 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on the Judiciary: September 11, to hold hear-
ings to examine the nominations of Steven J. Menashi, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit,
Karen S. Marston, to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Richard E. Myers II,
to be United States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of North Carolina, and Anuraag Singhal, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern District of
Florida, 10 a.m., SD–226.
September 11, Subcommittee on Intellectual Property,
to hold hearings to examine innovation in America, fo-
cusing on how Congress can make our patent system
stronger, 2:30 p.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: September 10, to receive
a closed briefing on certain intelligence matters, 2:30
p.m., SH–219.
September 12, Full Committee, to hold closed hearings
to examine certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
House Committees
Committee on Education and Labor, September 11, Sub-
committee on Early Childhood, Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education, hearing entitled ‘‘The Importance of
Trauma-Informed Practices in Education to Assist Stu-
dents Impacted by Gun Violence and Other Adversities’’,
10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, September 11, Sub-
committee on Environment and Climate Change, hearing
entitled ‘‘Protecting and Securing Chemical Facilities
from Terrorist Attacks’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
September 11, Subcommittee on Communications and
Technology, hearing entitled ‘‘Legislating to Connect
America: Improving the Nation’s Broadband Maps’’,
10:30 a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, September 11, Sub-
committee on Investor Protection, Entrepreneurship, and
Capital Markets, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining Private
Market Exemptions as a Barrier to IPOs and Retail In-
vestment’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
September 11, Subcommittee on National Security,
International Development, and Monetary Policy, hearing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:35 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09SE9.REC D09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D981
September 9, 2019
entitled ‘‘Examining the Macroeconomic Impacts of a
Changing Climate’’, 2 p.m., 2128 Rayburn.
September 12, Task Force on Artificial Intelligence,
hearing entitled ‘‘The Future of Identity in Financial
Services: Threats, Challenges, and Opportunities’’, 9:30
a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on the Judiciary, September 12, Full Com-
mittee, markup on Resolution for Investigative Proce-
dures, 8 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
September 12, Subcommittee on Antitrust, Commer-
cial, and Administrative Law, hearing entitled ‘‘Online
Platforms and Market Power, Part 3: The Role of Data
and Privacy in Competition’’, 9 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, September 11, Sub-
committee for Indigenous Peoples of the United States,
hearing entitled ‘‘Reviewing the Trump Administration’s
Approach to the MMIW Crisis’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Long-
worth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, September 11, Sub-
committee on Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Administration’s Apparent Revocation of
Medical Deferred Action for Critically Ill Children’’, 12
p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, September 11,
Subcommittee on Energy, markup on H.R. 4091, the
‘‘ARPA–E Reauthorization Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 4230,
the ‘‘Clean Industrial Technology Act’’, 10 a.m., 2318
Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, September 11, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Utilization Management: Bar-
riers to Care and Burdens on Small Medical Practice’’,
11:30 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, September
11, Subcommittee on Highways and Transit, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Pricing and Technology Strategies to Address
Congestion on and Financing of America’s Roads’’, 10
a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, September 11, Sub-
committee on Health, hearing on H.R. 3636, the ‘‘Caring
For Our Women Veterans Act’’; H.R. 2972, to direct the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to improve the communica-
tions of the Department of Veterans Affairs relating to
services available for women veterans, and for other pur-
poses; H.R. 3036, the ‘‘Breaking Barriers for Women
Veterans Act’’; H.R. 2798, the ‘‘Building Supportive
Networks for Women Veterans Act’’; H.R. 2645, the
‘‘Newborn Care Improvement Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2681,
to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to submit to
Congress a report on the availability of prosthetic items
for women veterans from the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs; H.R. 3224, to amend title 38, United States Code,
to provide for increased access to Department of Veterans
Affairs medical care for women veterans; H.R. 2982, the
‘‘Women Veterans Health Care Accountability Act’’;
H.R. 2752, the ‘‘VA Newborn Emergency Treatment
Act’’; H.R. 2628, the ‘‘VET CARE Act of 2019’’; H.R.
2816, the ‘‘Vietnam-Era Veterans Hepatitis C Testing
Enhancement Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1527, the ‘‘Long-Term
Care Veterans Choice Act’’; H.R. 1163, the ‘‘VA Hiring
Enhancement Act’’; H.R. 3798, the ‘‘Equal Access to
Contraception for Veterans Act’’; H.R. 3867, the ‘‘Vio-
lence Against Women Veterans Act’’; H.R. 4096, the
‘‘Improving Oversight of Women Veterans’ Care Act of
2019’’; and legislation to establish in the Department of
Veterans Affairs the Office of Women’s Health, and for
other purposes, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
Joint Meetings
Joint Economic Committee: September 10, to hold hear-
ings to examine making it more affordable to raise a fam-
ily, 2:30 p.m., SH–216.
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: Sep-
tember 11, to hold hearings to examine the state of di-
versity and inclusion in Europe, focusing on race, rights,
and politics, 10 a.m., 210, Cannon Building.
September 12, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine autocratic abuse of INTERPOL, 10 a.m., 210,
Cannon Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:35 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09SE9.REC D09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D982 September 9, 2019
* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accom-
panying report. A total of 68 written reports have been filed in the Senate,
184 reports have been filed in the House.
Résumé of Congressional Activity
FIRST SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED SIXTEENTH CONGRESS
The first table gives a comprehensive résumé of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House.
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation.
DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY
January 3 through July 31, 2019
Senate House Total
Days in session .................................... 115 118 . .
Time in session ................................... 637 hrs., 56′ 527 hrs., 46′ . .
Congressional Record:
Pages of proceedings ................... 5,277 7,484 . .
Extensions of Remarks ................ . . 1,019 . .
Public bills enacted into law ............... 15 21 36
Private bills enacted into law .............. . . . . . .
Bills in conference ............................... . . . . . .
Measures passed, total ......................... 302 386 688
Senate bills .................................. 60 16 . .
House bills .................................. 33 247 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... 23 4 . .
House joint resolutions ............... 4 7 . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 10 4 . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... 7 9 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 165 99 . .
Measures reported, total ...................... *134 176 310
Senate bills .................................. 84 . . . .
House bills .................................. 12 138 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... . . . . . .
House joint resolutions ............... . . 1 . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 3 . . . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... . . 2 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 35 35 . .
Special reports ..................................... 14 7 . .
Conference reports ............................... 1 1 . .
Measures pending on calendar ............. 108 47 . .
Measures introduced, total .................. 2,789 4,791 7,580
Bills ............................................. 2,411 4,127 . .
Joint resolutions .......................... 52 73 . .
Concurrent resolutions ................ 24 56 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 302 535 . .
Quorum calls ....................................... 2 1 . .
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 259 214 . .
Recorded votes .................................... . . 299 . .
Bills vetoed ......................................... 4 1 . .
Vetoes overridden ................................ . . . . . .
DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS
January 3 through July 31, 2019
Civilian nominees, totaling 426, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 166
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 249
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 11
Other Civilian nominees, totaling 1,004, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 668
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 336
Air Force nominees, totaling 5,651, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,863
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 3,788
Army nominees, totaling 5,697, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 4,996
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 701
Navy nominees, totaling 2,275, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 2,208
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 67
Marine Corps nominees, totaling 1,428, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,412
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 16
Summary
Total nominees carried over from the First Session ............................... 0
Total nominees received this Session ..................................................... 16,481
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 11,313
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 5,157
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 11
Total returned to the White House ...................................................... 0
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:35 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0667 Sfmt 0667 E:\CR\FM\D09SE9.REC D09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D983
September 9, 2019
* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accom-
panying report. A total of 78 written reports have been filed in the Senate,
195 reports have been filed in the House.
Résumé of Congressional Activity
FIRST SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED SIXTEENTH CONGRESS
The first table gives a comprehensive résumé of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House.
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation.
DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY
January 3 through August 31, 2019
Senate House Total
Days in session .................................... 125 127 . .
Time in session ................................... 643 hrs., 50′ 528 hrs., 11′ . .
Congressional Record:
Pages of proceedings ................... 5,339 7,529 . .
Extensions of Remarks ................ . . 1,088 . .
Public bills enacted into law ............... 16 40 56
Private bills enacted into law .............. . . . . . .
Bills in conference ............................... . . . . . .
Measures passed, total ......................... 311 387 698
Senate bills .................................. 62 16 . .
House bills .................................. 38 247 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... 23 4 . .
House joint resolutions ............... 4 7 . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 10 4 . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... 7 10 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 167 99 . .
Measures reported, total ...................... *146 186 332
Senate bills .................................. 95 . . . .
House bills .................................. 13 148 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... . . . . . .
House joint resolutions ............... . . 1 . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 3 . . . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... . . 2 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 35 35 . .
Special reports ..................................... 14 8 . .
Conference reports ............................... 1 1 . .
Measures pending on calendar ............. 117 57 . .
Measures introduced, total .................. 2,823 4,892 7,715
Bills ............................................. 2,442 4,213 . .
Joint resolutions .......................... 52 74 . .
Concurrent resolutions ................ 24 59 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 305 546 . .
Quorum calls ....................................... 2 1 . .
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 262 214 . .
Recorded votes .................................... . . 299 . .
Bills vetoed ......................................... 4 1 . .
Vetoes overridden ................................ . . . . . .
DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS
January 3 through August 31, 2019
Civilian nominees, totaling 432, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 231
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 190
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 11
Other Civilian nominees, totaling 1,004, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 668
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 335
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 1
Air Force nominees, totaling 5,651, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,863
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 3,788
Army nominees, totaling 5,697, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 4,996
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 701
Navy nominees, totaling 2,275, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 2,209
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 66
Marine Corps nominees, totaling 1,428, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,412
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 16
Summary
Total nominees carried over from the First Session ............................... 0
Total nominees received this Session ..................................................... 16,487
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 11,379
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 5,096
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 12
Total returned to the White House ...................................................... 0
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:35 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0667 Sfmt 0667 E:\CR\FM\D09SE9.REC D09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D984 September 9, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, September 10
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Kelly Craft, of Kentucky, to
be Representative of the United States of America to the
Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations
during her tenure of service as Representative of the
United States of America to the United Nations, Depart-
ment of State, post-cloture, and vote on confirmation of
the nomination at 11:50 a.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Kelly Craft,
Senate will vote on the motion to invoke cloture on the
nomination of Elizabeth Darling, of Texas, to be Com-
missioner on Children, Youth, and Families, Department
of Health and Human Services. If cloture is invoked on
the nomination, Senate will vote on confirmation of the
nomination at 2:15 p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Elizabeth
Darling, Senate will vote on the motions to invoke clo-
ture on the nominations of Stephen Akard, of Indiana, to
be Director of the Office of Foreign Missions, with the
rank of Ambassador, Department of State, Dale Cabaniss,
of Virginia, to be Director of the Office of Personnel
Management, and James Byrne, of Virginia, to be Deputy
Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(Senate will recess following the vote on the motion to invoke
cloture on the nomination of Elizabeth Darling until 2:15 p.m.
for their respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Tuesday, September 10
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Consideration of measures under
suspension of the Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Bishop, Sanford D., Jr., Ga., E1105
Blumenauer, Earl, Ore., E1113
Carson, André, Ind., E1107
Cook, Paul, Calif., E1108
Courtney, Joe, Conn., E1113
Davis, Susan A., Calif., E1109
Long, Billy, Mo., E1107, E1109
Moore, Gwen, Wisc., E1106
Norcross, Donald, N.J., E1105
Panetta, Jimmy, Calif., E1108, E1109
Pascrell, Bill, Jr., N.J., E1106
Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E1105
Rogers, Mike, Ala., E1109, E1110, E1112, E1112, E1113
Schneider, Bradley Scott, Ill., E1105, E1108
Sensenbrenner, F. James, Jr., Wisc., E1112
Simpson, Michael K., Idaho, E1110
Smith, Christopher H., N.J., E1110
Speier, Jackie, Calif., E1106
Torres, Norma J., Calif., E1109
Westerman, Bruce, Ark., E1110
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:35 Sep 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D09SE9.REC D09SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
