Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H10269
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2019 No. 203
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Ms. MCCOLLUM).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
December 16, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable
BETTY MCCOLLUM to act as Speaker pro
tempore on this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair would now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at noon), the House
stood in recess.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY) at 2 p.m.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Loving God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
In Your Word, You have implored us
to have no fear, for You are with us.
Help us to put our trust in You and
thus live up to our motto, which faces
this assembly as a constant call to us.
Bless all the peacemakers of our world.
May Your eternal spirit be with them
and with us always.
May Your special blessings be upon
the Members of this assembly, in the
important and difficult work they are
given to do. Give them wisdom and
charity, that they might work together
for the common good.
May all that is done this day in the
people’s House be for Your greater
honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to section 7(a) of House Resolution
758, the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings is approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Florida (Mr. DUNN)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. DUNN led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF JAMES
MONTGOMERY
(Mr. DUNN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. DUNN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Mr. James Horace
Montgomery of Lake City, Florida,
who I am sad to say recently passed
away at the age of 86.
Mr. Montgomery, affectionately
known as ‘‘Mr. Mont,’’ graduated from
Columbia High School in 1951 and
would later teach at several schools in
Lake City, including the high school he
graduated from and Florida Gateway
College. He dedicated 60 years in all to
educating our youth and was a role
model to every student with whom he
crossed paths.
Mr. Montgomery also devoted much
of his life to the First Presbyterian
Church, singing in the choir for over 50
years. He was an Eagle Scout, served as
a county commissioner for 28 years,
and was on the North Florida Regional
Council for 27 years.
Mr. Mont will be missed by his entire
community, but his legacy and the im-
pact that he made will never be forgot-
ten.
Madam Speaker, please join me in
recognizing and honoring the life of
Mr. Montgomery.
f
MAKING IN ORDER AT ANY TIME
CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5430,
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA
AGREEMENT IMPLEMENTATION
ACT
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that it be in
order at any time without intervention
of any point of order to consider in the
House the bill (H.R. 5430); that the bill
be considered as read; that the bill be
debatable for 2 hours equally divided
and controlled by the majority leader
and the minority leader or their re-
spective designees; and that, pursuant
to section 151 of the Trade Act of 1974,
the previous question be considered as
ordered on the bill to final passage
without intervening motion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Minnesota?
There was no objection.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:48 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE7.000 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10270 December 16, 2019
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 2:45 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 4 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1445
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY) at 2 o’clock
and 45 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS CONTRACTING PREF-
ERENCE CONSISTENCY ACT
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4920) to amend title 38,
United States Code, to provide for an
exception to certain small business
contracting requirements applicable to
the Department of Veterans Affairs
procurement of certain goods and serv-
ices covered under the Ability One pro-
gram, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4920
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Veterans Affairs Contracting Preference
Consistency Act’’.
SEC. 2. EXCEPTION TO DEPARTMENT OF VET-
ERANS AFFAIRS SMALL BUSINESS
CONTRACTING REQUIREMENT FOR
CERTAIN GOODS AND SERVICES
COVERED UNDER ABILITY ONE PRO-
GRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (d) of section
8127 of title 38, United States Code, is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking ‘‘Except’’ and inserting ‘‘(1)
Except’’;
(2) by inserting ‘‘in paragraph (2) and’’ be-
fore ‘‘in subsections (b) and (c)’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2)(A) Notwithstanding paragraph (1),
with respect to the procurement of a covered
product or service, a contracting officer of
the Department shall procure such product
or service from a source designated under
chapter 85 of title 41, and in accordance with
the regulations prescribed under such chap-
ter.
‘‘(B) In this paragraph, the term ‘covered
product or service’ means—
‘‘(i) a product or service that—
‘‘(I) is included on the procurement list
under section 8503(a) of title 41; and
‘‘(II) was included on such procurement list
on or before December 22, 2006; or
‘‘(ii) a product or service that—
‘‘(I) is a replacement for a product or serv-
ice described under clause (i);
‘‘(II) is essentially the same and meeting
the same requirement as the product or serv-
ice being replaced; and
‘‘(III) a contracting officer determines
meets the quality standards and delivery
schedule of the Department.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Such sec-
tion is further amended in each of sub-
sections (b) and (c), by striking ‘‘For’’ and
inserting ‘‘Except as provided in subsection
(d)(2), for’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to a contract entered into on or after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. BOST) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
4920.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, this bipartisan leg-
islation sponsored by Ranking Member
ROE and me, and 17 other cosponsors,
would provide critically needed relief
for nonprofit companies that employ
blind and disabled workers under the
AbilityOne Program.
Approximately 2,000 blind and dis-
abled Americans, including many vet-
erans, are employed under VA’s
AbilityOne contracts. Without this leg-
islation, these nonprofit companies
will likely lose their VA contracts be-
cause they will lose their award pref-
erence. This bill would only exempt or
grandfather the existing AbilityOne
VA contracts from losing their pref-
erence so these employees would keep
their jobs. It will not expand the pro-
gram.
VA expends approximately $27 billion
on contracts and government purchase
cards for goods and services. Of this
spending, only about $100 million is
spent on contracts with AbilityOne
nonprofit businesses. Approximately $5
billion is spent on contracts with vet-
eran-owned small businesses, many
owned by disabled veterans.
In other words, VA’s AbilityOne con-
tracts are a very small percentage of
the Department’s spending. However,
the program is vital for the 2,000 blind
and otherwise disabled individuals em-
ployed through AbilityOne.
This committee has long championed
the Veterans First Contracting Pro-
gram and providing more opportunities
for veteran-owned small businesses to
do business with the Federal Govern-
ment.
This legislation means we can sup-
port both the Veterans First and
AbilityOne programs that employ and
increase economic opportunities for
veterans and individuals with disabil-
ities.
This bill was approved unanimously
by the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
and is supported by the Blinded Vet-
erans Association, National Federation
of the Blind, American Council of the
Blind, National Industries for the
Blind, National Association for the
Employment of People Who Are Blind,
SourceAmerica, and National Council
of SourceAmerica Employers.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this very important
legislation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of H.R. 4920, the VA Contracting
Preference Consistency Act.
I thank Chairman TAKANO for intro-
ducing the legislation, which would
preserve employment opportunities for
the blind and severely disabled who
rely on VA contracts.
This bill addresses a technical con-
flict between the AbilityOne Program
and the VA Veterans First program. I
am sorry to say that this conflict ex-
ists because of Congress’ oversight in
the drafting of the Veterans Benefits,
Health Care, and Information Tech-
nology Act of 2006. Whereas earlier leg-
islation was clear about the legislation
between the AbilityOne and the serv-
ice-disabled, veteran-owned small busi-
nesses contracting programs, the 2006
act was silent. The result has been a
series of lawsuits beginning in 2017.
I wish this conflict did not exist, but
the fact is, it does, and it still does. It
has put the jobs of over 2,000 individ-
uals who are blind or severely disabled
potentially at risk. These are vulner-
able populations with an unemploy-
ment rate that hovers around 70 to 80
percent.
The bill’s solution is simple and equi-
table. It preserves only the AbilityOne
work that was being performed in VA
as of December 22, 2006, when the Vet-
erans Benefits, Health Care, and Infor-
mation Technology Act of 2006 was en-
acted, creating the Veterans First Pro-
gram. No new work will go into the
AbilityOne Program. Rather, it will all
be reserved for service-disabled, vet-
eran-owned small businesses under the
rule of two.
This is very similar to the VA’s pol-
icy, which balanced the two programs
for nearly 10 years. While that policy
was effective in practice, it was struck
down because it lacked a clear statu-
tory basis.
Unfortunately, there has been a great
deal of wrong information circulating
about this legislation. Some had al-
leged that it would abolish the Vets
First program or wipe away the Su-
preme Court’s Kingdomware decision,
and that is simply not true.
The Vets First program is a success
story. The volume of VA contracting
with veteran-owned small businesses
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:20 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.004 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10271
December 16, 2019
now exceeds $5 billion annually. This
legislation in no way, shape, or form
erodes that.
On the other hand, the VA spending
in the AbilityOne Program fluctuates
between $100 million and $200 million in
a typical year. This legislation would
preserve only a portion of that, the
portion that exists before Vets First
was created.
At the end of the day, this issue is
about preserving jobs for the blind and
disabled individuals, and these jobs are
extremely scarce. I want to see these
jobs multiply and become higher pay-
ing with more opportunities for ad-
vancement. The first step to do that is
to make sure jobs continue to exist.
There have already been a significant
number of furloughs at AbilityOne non-
profits. It is vital that we act before
those furloughs turn into full-time lay-
offs.
Last week, 497 veterans who are em-
ployed by the AbilityOne nonprofits or
supporters of the program sent a letter
urging passage of this bill. The com-
mittee has received many other letters
from business owners praising or op-
posing the bill, depending on which
program they are associated with. I do
not for a minute want to fall into that
false choice between opportunities for
veterans and opportunities for blind
and disabled individuals. They can co-
exist. They have coexisted in the past,
and I want to make sure that they co-
exist in the future.
Madam Speaker, to that end, I thank
all the cosponsors of this broadly bi-
partisan legislation, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
have no further speakers. I am pre-
pared to close, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. FOXX).
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R.
4920, the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs Contracting Preference Consist-
ency Act.
This bipartisan bill provides a nec-
essary fix to ensure that nonprofit or-
ganizations that provide jobs for the
blind and those with significant dis-
abilities and companies that are owned
by veterans receive their due and are
no longer in conflict.
The AbilityOne Program was enacted
by Congress to give nonprofit organiza-
tions that employ the blind or those
with significant disabilities pref-
erential treatment in competing for
certain Federal procurement contracts.
Unfortunately, due to an unnecessary
conflict between AbilityOne and a
similar program, the Veterans First
program, which sets aside some De-
partment of Veterans Affairs contracts
for service-disabled, veteran-owned
small businesses, a legislative fix be-
came necessary.
H.R. 4920 provides that fix by
grandfathering in VA contracts that
predate the creation of the Vets First
program to restore eligibility for non-
profit organizations that employ blind
individuals or those with significant
disabilities. This bipartisan legislation
is proof that the choices between help-
ing veterans and those with disabilities
is not mutually exclusive.
I thank Chairman TAKANO, Ranking
Member ROE, and all the members on
the committee for their work on the
bill, and I urge my colleagues to sup-
port its passage.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I am pre-
pared to close.
Madam Speaker, as has been testified
today from both sides of the aisle, both
of these programs are vitally impor-
tant. We believe this legislation would
move forward in making sure that both
veterans and the blind and disabled
who are working in our VA system will
be taken care of.
I appreciate everyone who is a spon-
sor of this bill, and I encourage all
Members involved to vote ‘‘yes.’’
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
urge all of my colleagues to join me in
passing H.R. 4920, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4920.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
b 1500
IDENTIFYING BARRIERS AND BEST
PRACTICES STUDY ACT
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4183) to direct the Comp-
troller General of the United States to
conduct a study on disability and pen-
sion benefits provided to members of
the National Guard and members of re-
serve components of the Armed Forces
by the Department of Veterans Affairs,
and for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4183
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Identifying
Barriers and Best Practices Study Act’’.
SEC. 2. COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY ON DIS-
ABILITY AND PENSION BENEFITS
PROVIDED TO MEMBERS OF THE NA-
TIONAL GUARD AND MEMBERS OF
RESERVE COMPONENTS OF THE
ARMED FORCES BY THE DEPART-
MENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 36 months
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General of the United States shall
complete a study on disability and pension ben-
efits provided to members of the National Guard
and members of reserve components of the
Armed Forces by the Department of Veterans
Affairs. In conducting such study, the Comp-
troller General shall review, for the period be-
ginning on January 1, 2008, and ending on De-
cember 31, 2018, each of the following:
(1) The number of members of the National
Guard and the number of members of reserve
components of the Armed Forces who received
disability compensation or pension provided by
the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(2) A comparison of each of the following be-
tween veterans who served only in the National
Guard or reserve components and veterans who
served in the regular components of the Armed
Forces:
(A) The percentage of each group of such vet-
erans with service-connected disabilities.
(B) The number of veterans in each group
with each disability rating.
(C) The number of veterans in each group
with a service-connected disability, including
the number of each of the following types of
such veterans in each group:
(i) Pilots.
(ii) Veterans who served in the special forces.
(iii) Veterans who participated in the Per-
sonnel Reliability Program.
(iv) Veterans who underwent diving or flight
physicals as a regular component of their serv-
ice in the Armed Forces and who have a mus-
cular-skeletal or mental health condition.
(D) The number of total claims for disability
compensation and pension submitted, approved,
and disapproved for each group of veterans.
(3) An identification of common barriers for
members of the National Guard and members of
reserve components in obtaining disability bene-
fits under the laws administered by the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, including barriers re-
lating to documentation of injuries incurred
while serving, such as line of duty letters.
(b) REPORTS.—
(1) PRELIMINARY REPORT.—Not later than 18
months after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the
Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate
and House of Representatives a preliminary re-
port on the findings of the study required by
subsection (a).
(2) FINAL REPORT.—Upon completion of the
study, the Comptroller General shall submit to
such Committees a final report on such study.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. BOST) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
4183, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
H.R. 4183, as amended, the Identifying
Barriers and Best Practices Study Act,
introduced by Representative KHANNA
of California.
I support this legislation that re-
quests a multiyear study on VA dis-
ability and pension benefits for mem-
bers of the Reserve components and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:48 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.006 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10272 December 16, 2019
National Guard. Any veteran injured
during their time in service should
have access to care for lingering dis-
abilities and compensation for loss of
earning power.
Since September 11, members of the
Reserve component and National
Guard have increasingly answered the
call to service to meet our Nation’s na-
tional security needs. Yet, despite
greater demands and commitments,
Reserve and National Guard veterans
and their families do not always have
easy access to benefits.
We have heard from our VSO part-
ners that Guard and Reservists, like
those who served in special missions,
often have difficulty documenting inju-
ries. Their medical records tend to be
scattered and are often incomplete.
This lack of in-service documentation
of injury disproportionately affects
Guard and Reservists.
The additional burden of obtaining a
line-of-duty determination, which pro-
vides clear documentation of injury,
rests on their shoulders. This can pre-
vent receipt of compensation from VA
down the road.
The study requested by this bill will
compare Reserve and National Guard
veterans and special operators, such as
pilots and divers, to Active-Duty vet-
erans and provide Congress with a re-
port on the barriers they face when re-
ceiving their benefits through VA. The
findings in the report will best inform
Congress on next steps toward pro-
viding Reserve and National Guard vet-
erans the compensation and benefits
that they have earned.
I urge all Members to support H.R.
4183, as amended, and take the first
steps to removing barriers to benefits
for Guard, Reserve, and special opera-
tors.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of H.R. 4183, the Identifying Bar-
riers and Best Practices Study Act.
H.R. 4183, as amended, would require
the Government Accountability Office
to complete a study that compares the
utilization of disability and pension
benefits between veterans of the Na-
tional Guard, Reserve, and Active-Duty
components.
Some National Guard and Reserve
veterans believe that it is more chal-
lenging for them to successfully apply
for VA benefits compared to veterans
of regular components. According to a
Statement for the RECORD provided by
The American Legion during the Dis-
ability Assistance and Memorial Af-
fairs Subcommittee hearing on H.R.
4183: ‘‘Guard and Reserve veterans have
historically been at a disadvantage
when seeking VA compensation and
disability benefits due to poor report-
ing and documentation of injuries
which occur during a period of Reserve
or Active Duty for training.’’
We must ensure that all of our vet-
erans who have been injured as a result
of their service receive the benefits
they have earned. This legislation
would shed additional insight into the
barriers our National Guard and Re-
serve veterans could face when seeking
VA benefits. This may, in turn, inform
how VA could improve its claims proc-
ess for National Guard and Reserve
veterans.
I encourage all Members to support
H.R. 4183, as amended.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
have no further speakers. I am pre-
pared to close.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, as mentioned here,
this is a problem we have been dealing
with concerning our Reserve and Na-
tional Guard. We want to make sure
that they are provided with these bene-
fits. I want to encourage all of our
Members to support this legislation.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
I just want to take this moment to
just reflect on how much our reservists
and National Guard have contributed
to our national defense in these past 18
years.
Some of us may recall the role of the
Guard and Reserve during the Vietnam
war era, where that was often a refuge
for servicemembers who were not ex-
pecting to be called into Active Duty
or called into service.
But gone are those days. The Na-
tional Guard and Reserve are called up
frequently, often on multiple deploy-
ments, and they have served our coun-
try with vigor, with tremendous patri-
otism.
So I have to say that I am very
pleased that we are moving forward
with this study. I think it is a travesty
if our reservists and guardsmen cannot
document their service-connected inju-
ries and not be able to collect the bene-
fits that they deserve down the road.
I urge all of my colleagues to join me
in passing H.R. 4183, as amended, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4183, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
IMPROVING CONFIDENCE IN
VETERANS’ CARE ACT
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 3530) to amend title 38,
United States Code, to direct the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to enforce
the licensure requirement for medical
providers of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3530
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Improving Con-
fidence in Veterans’ Care Act’’.
SEC. 2. COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS FOR
EXAMINING QUALIFICATIONS AND
CLINICAL ABILITIES OF DEPART-
MENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter I of chapter 74
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 7414. Compliance with requirements for ex-
amining qualifications and clinical abili-
ties of health care professionals
‘‘(a) COMPLIANCE WITH CREDENTIALING RE-
QUIREMENTS.—The Secretary shall ensure that
each medical center of the Department, in a
consistent manner—
‘‘(1) compiles, verifies, and reviews docu-
mentation for each health care professional of
the Department at such medical center regard-
ing, at a minimum—
‘‘(A) the professional licensure, certification,
or registration of the health care professional;
‘‘(B) whether the health care professional
holds a Drug Enforcement Administration reg-
istration; and
‘‘(C) the education, training, experience, mal-
practice history, and clinical competence of the
health care professional; and
‘‘(2) continuously monitors any changes to the
matters under paragraph (1), including with re-
spect to suspensions, restrictions, limitations,
probations, denials, revocations, and other
changes, relating to the failure of a health care
professional to meet generally accepted stand-
ards of clinical practice in a manner that pre-
sents reasonable concern for the safety of pa-
tients.
‘‘(b) REGISTRATION REGARDING CONTROLLED
SUBSTANCES.—(1) Except as provided by para-
graph (2), the Secretary shall ensure that each
covered health care professional holds an active
Drug Enforcement Administration registration.
‘‘(2) The Secretary shall—
‘‘(A) determine the circumstances in which a
medical center of the Department must obtain a
waiver under section 303 of the Controlled Sub-
stances Act (21 U.S.C. 823) with respect to cov-
ered health care professionals; and
‘‘(B) establish a process for medical centers to
request such waivers.
‘‘(3) In carrying out paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall ensure that each medical center of
the Department monitors the Drug Enforcement
Administration registrations of covered health
care professionals at such medical center in a
manner that ensures the medical center is made
aware of any change in status in the registra-
tion by not later than seven days after such
change in status.
‘‘(4) If a covered health care professional does
not hold an active Drug Enforcement Adminis-
tration registration, the Secretary shall carry
out any of the following actions, as the Sec-
retary determines appropriate:
‘‘(A) Obtain a waiver pursuant to paragraph
(2).
‘‘(B) Transfer the health care professional to
a position that does not require prescribing, dis-
pensing, administering, or conducting research
with controlled substances.
‘‘(C) Take adverse actions under subchapter V
of this chapter, with respect to an employee of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.010 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10273
December 16, 2019
the Department, or terminate the services of a
contractor, with respect to a contractor of the
Department.
‘‘(c) REVIEWS OF CONCERNS RELATING TO
QUALITY OF CLINICAL CARE.—(1) The Secretary
shall ensure that each medical center of the De-
partment, in a consistent manner, carries out—
‘‘(A) ongoing, retrospective, and comprehen-
sive monitoring of the performance and quality
of the health care delivered by each health care
professional of the Department located at the
medical center, including with respect to the
safety of such care; and
‘‘(B) timely and documented reviews of such
care if an individual notifies the Secretary of
any potential concerns relating to a failure of
the health care professional to meet generally
accepted standards of clinical practice in a
manner that presents reasonable concern for the
safety of patients.
‘‘(2) The Secretary shall establish a policy to
carry out paragraph (1), including with respect
to—
‘‘(A) determining the period by which a med-
ical center of the Department must initiate the
review of a concern described in subparagraph
(B) of such paragraph following the date on
which the concern is received; and
‘‘(B) ensuring the compliance of each medical
center with such policy.
‘‘(d) COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS FOR
REPORTING QUALITY OF CARE CONCERNS.—When
the Secretary substantiates a concern relating to
the clinical competency of, or quality of care de-
livered by, a health care professional of the De-
partment (including a former such health care
professional), the Secretary shall ensure that
the appropriate medical center of the Depart-
ment timely notifies the following entities of
such concern, as appropriate:
‘‘(1) The appropriate licensing, registration, or
certification body in each State in which the
health care professional is licensed, registered,
or certified.
‘‘(2) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
‘‘(3) The National Practitioner Data Bank es-
tablished pursuant to the Health Care Quality
Improvement Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11101 et
seq.).
‘‘(4) Any other relevant entity.
‘‘(e) PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN SETTLEMENT
AGREEMENT TERMS.—(1) Except as provided by
paragraph (2), the Secretary may not enter into
a settlement agreement relating to an adverse
action against a health care professional of the
Department if such agreement includes terms
that require the Secretary to conceal from the
personnel file of the employee a serious medical
error or lapse in clinical practice that con-
stitutes a substantial failure to meet generally
accepted standards of clinical practice as to
raise reasonable concern for the safety of pa-
tients.
‘‘(2) Paragraph (1) does not apply to adverse
actions that the Special Counsel under section
1211 of title 5 determines constitutes a prohibited
personnel practice.
‘‘(f) TRAINING.—Not less frequently than bian-
nually, the Secretary shall provide mandatory
training to employees of each medical center of
the Department who are responsible for any of
the following activities:
‘‘(1) Compiling, validating, or reviewing the
credentials of health care professionals of the
Department.
‘‘(2) Reviewing the quality of clinical care de-
livered by health care professionals of the De-
partment.
‘‘(3) Taking adverse privileging actions or
making determinations relating to other discipli-
nary actions or employment actions against
health care professionals of the Department for
reasons relating to the failure of a health care
professional to meet generally accepted stand-
ards of clinical practice in a manner that pre-
sents reasonable concern for the safety of pa-
tients.
‘‘(4) Making notifications under subsection
(d).
‘‘(g) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘controlled substance’ has the
meaning given that term in section 102 of the
Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
‘‘(2) The term ‘covered health care profes-
sional’ means a person employed in a position
as a health care professional of the Department,
or a contractor of the Department, that requires
the person to be authorized to prescribe, dis-
pense, administer, or conduct research with,
controlled substances.
‘‘(3) The term ‘Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion registration’ means registration with the
Drug Enforcement Administration under section
303 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C.
823) by health care practitioners authorized to
dispense, prescribe, administer, or conduct re-
search with, controlled substances.
‘‘(4) The term ‘health care professional of the
Department’ means the professionals described
in section 1730C(b) of this title, and includes a
contractor of the Department serving as such a
professional.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of such chapter is amend-
ed by inserting after the item relating to section
7413 the following new item:
‘‘7414. Compliance with requirements for exam-
ining qualifications and clinical
abilities of health care profes-
sionals.’’.
(c) DEADLINE FOR IMPLEMENTATION.—The
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall commence
the implementation of section 7414 of title 38,
United States Code, as added by subsection (a),
by the following dates:
(1) With respect to subsections (a), (c)(2), (d),
and (f), not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act.
(2) With respect to subsection (c)(1), not later
than one year after the date of the enactment of
this Act.
(3) With respect to subsection (b)(2), not later
than 18 months after the date of the enactment
of this Act.
(d) AUDITS AND REPORTS.—
(1) AUDITS.—The Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs shall carry out annual audits of the com-
pliance of medical centers of the Department of
Veterans Affairs with the matters required by
section 7414 of title 38, United States Code, as
added by subsection (a). In carrying out such
audits, the Secretary—
(A) may not authorize the medical center
being audited to conduct the audit; and
(B) may enter into an agreement with another
department or agency of the Federal Govern-
ment or a nongovernmental entity to conduct
such audits.
(2) REPORTS.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, and annu-
ally thereafter for five years, the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committees
on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate a report on the audits con-
ducted under paragraph (1). Each such report
shall include a summary of the compliance by
each medical center with the matters required by
such section 7414.
(3) INITIAL REPORT.—The Secretary shall in-
clude in the first report submitted under para-
graph (2) the following:
(A) A description of the progress made by the
Secretary in implementing such section 7414, in-
cluding any matters under such section that the
Secretary has not fully implemented.
(B) An analysis of the feasibility, advisability,
and cost of requiring credentialing employees of
the Department to be trained by an outside enti-
ty and to maintain a credentialing certification.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. BOST) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I re-
quest unanimous consent that all
Members may have 5 legislative days
in which to revise and extend their re-
marks and to insert extraneous mate-
rial on H.R. 3530, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
H.R. 3530, as amended, the Improving
Confidence in Veterans’ Care Act, in-
troduced by Representative CLOUD of
Texas.
This legislation requires the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs to conduct
better oversight of its hospitals’ com-
pliance with existing policies on pa-
tient safety and quality of care. Spe-
cifically, the bill directs VA to conduct
annual audits and to report to Con-
gress on its ability to uphold or failure
to follow standards for reviewing the
clinical competency of its healthcare
professionals.
This bill mandates that VA examine
whether its hospitals are appropriately
assessing the qualifications and clin-
ical abilities of VA healthcare profes-
sionals, both before they are hired and
while they are caring for veterans. It
also requires VA to ensure employees
and contractors hold active Drug En-
forcement Administration registra-
tions if they are required to prescribe,
dispense, administer, or conduct re-
search with controlled substances.
If concerns arise related to the clin-
ical competence of VA healthcare pro-
fessionals, this bill requires VA to en-
sure its officials conduct prompt re-
views. And when quality of care or pa-
tient safety concerns are substan-
tiated, it requires VA to ensure its hos-
pital leaders promptly report those
concerns to the National Practitioner
Data Bank and State licensing boards.
In addition, this measure requires VA
to provide mandatory biannual train-
ing for hospital employees charged
with reviewing VA clinician creden-
tials and monitoring their clinical
practice.
The Veterans Affairs’ Subcommittee
on Oversight and Investigations held a
hearing related to these issues on Octo-
ber 16. At the hearing, my colleagues
and I discussed several concerning
cases of clinical incompetency and mis-
conduct among VA clinicians that were
widely reported in the media in recent
months. We also explored the very real
risks of patient harm that arise from
VA medical centers’ noncompliance
with departmental policies and a lack
of oversight on the part of leaders who
are higher up in VA’s chain of com-
mand.
For example, in August 2019, a former
VA pathologist in Arkansas was
charged with involuntary man-
slaughter, fraud, and making false
statements in an attempt to conceal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE7.004 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10274 December 16, 2019
years of substance abuse. Over his 11-
year tenure with VA, he is believed to
have botched diagnoses for an esti-
mated 3,000 veterans, some of whom
died.
The VA facility that employed this
physician either did not catch or ig-
nored his previous DUI convictions
when they hired him. Despite numer-
ous complaints from colleagues, it
took years for leadership at the facility
to investigate allegations that the doc-
tor was showing up drunk at work.
In addition, in September 2019, the
VA OIG reported that multiple leader-
ship failures and poor oversight of clin-
ical competency at a VA facility in the
Midwest allowed an ophthalmologist to
perform substandard surgery and clinic
laser procedures for 2 years. This doc-
tor regularly took hours to complete
cataract surgeries that should have
taken less than 30 minutes.
The facility director and chief of
staff repeatedly dismissed concerns
that were raised by other staff, and fa-
cility leaders never called on experts to
directly observe this doctor’s surgeries
until long after concerns were raised.
VA’s regional leaders also failed to
carry out related oversight responsibil-
ities.
Both the VA Office of Inspector Gen-
eral and the U.S. Government Account-
ability Office have identified long-
standing concerns with whether VA is
doing enough to ensure its medical fa-
cilities only employ and contract with
highly qualified, highly competent
healthcare professionals.
H.R. 3530, as amended, will require
VA to implement a number of GAO rec-
ommendations that were discussed at
the October 16 hearing. Both the Fed-
eration of State Medical Boards and
the National Council of State Boards of
Nursing support this legislation. I urge
all Members to join me in approving
this important bill.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of H.R. 3530, as amended, the Im-
proving Confidence in Veterans’ Care
Act.
This bill is sponsored by Congress-
man MICHAEL CLOUD from Texas. I
thank him for his leadership in intro-
ducing this bill to improve the safety
and quality of the care that is provided
to our Nation’s veterans throughout
the Department of Veterans Affairs’
healthcare system.
This bill would make several changes
to current VA processes and procedures
to improve the credentialing and privi-
leging of the healthcare providers who
are treating our veterans. For example,
it would require VA to ensure that
each VA medical center complies,
verifies, reviews, and continuously
monitors certain documentation, in-
cluding licensure and certifications, re-
lated to the qualifications and clinical
abilities of the VA healthcare profes-
sionals.
b 1515
It would also require VA to ensure
that each VA medical center reviews
concerns relating to quality of care de-
livered by VA healthcare professionals
and, when a concern is verified, that
entities like State licensing boards,
the Drug Enforcement Administration,
and the National Practitioner Data
Bank are notified in a timely manner
so that corrective actions can be taken
to ensure patient safety and account-
ability.
In general, VA provides an excellent
level of care to the veterans who are
enrolled in the VA healthcare system.
However, several recent patient safety
incidents across this country have
called into question the way the VA
oversees provider credentialing, mon-
itors the quality of the care that vet-
erans receive, and responds to patient
safety concerns. Many of the provisions
in this bill are based on recommenda-
tions made by the VA inspector general
and the Government Accountability
Office for improving VA’s standard op-
erating procedures in each of these
areas.
The brave men and women who have
served in the Armed Forces deserve to
know that the care they are receiving
from the VA meets the highest quality
and patient safety standards. This bill
will help give them that assurance, and
I urge all of my colleagues to join me
in supporting this bill.
Madam Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. CLOUD),
who has taken the lead on this.
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of my bill, H.R. 3530,
the Improving Confidence in Veterans’
Care Act.
This bill is presented in the spirit of
those who have come before us, from
George Washington, one of our Na-
tion’s first veterans advocates, to those
who have worked through generations
to ensure the men and women who
serve in uniform are not forgotten.
A report released in February out-
lines several cases of doctors and
healthcare workers who were treating
veterans at VA facilities despite having
had their medical licenses suspended or
completely terminated. These cases
ranged from those needing to complete
educational courses to very serious in-
stances of malpractice and patient ne-
glect.
A similar problem was found with the
Drug Enforcement Administration’s
registrations. Some doctors were pre-
scribing drugs without being legally
registered by the DEA to do so.
One of the reasons the VA seemingly
overlooked this problem was because
they did not know about the resources
available to check the status of these
licenses. Had the VA checked with
State licensing boards or online
records, they could have discovered
that these doctors were unqualified, be-
fore allowing them to treat our vet-
erans.
This legislation ensures that the VA
hires only licensed doctors to provide
care for our veterans and that the VA
regularly checks licenses to make sure
care providers do not fall out of com-
pliance. Regular audits are common
practice in medical facilities across
this country, and our veterans deserve
nothing less.
Finally, to ensure accountability,
this legislation would require the VA
to report their progress to Congress.
In the last few years, we turned a
corner in improving care for our vet-
erans, but there is still so much work
to be done.
The liberty we enjoy in the United
States is not without cost. Our Na-
tion’s servicemembers paid for it,
many with their lives and many more
with the scars brought back from war.
Our Nation owes it to our veterans to
deliver on the promises we have made
to them.
I thank Chairman TAKANO, Ranking
Member ROE, and their staffs for their
work to strengthen this bill and ensure
that veterans receive a high standard
of care from qualified workers.
Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
As given witness here today, this is
simply making sure that our veterans
receive the quality care that they ex-
pect and should expect and that we
should be giving them. There has been
a failure in the keeping of records and
making sure by our VA that the doc-
tors remain qualified and that the spe-
cialists remain qualified in their spe-
cialties.
What this bill does is it makes sure
that our veterans continue to receive
quality care and that records are kept.
That is why we are joining in a bipar-
tisan manner to move this bill forward.
Madam Speaker, I encourage all
Members to vote in support of this bill,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Let me say that it was with bipar-
tisan shock and horror that we heard of
the revelations in Arkansas. Certainly,
our bipartisan hearts go out to the
families of those veterans in Arkansas.
Rest assured, this committee, on a bi-
partisan basis, will do everything that
we can to make sure that these sorts of
hiring mistakes do not happen again
and that the tragedy we saw in the fa-
cilities in Arkansas do not happen
again.
I urge all of my colleagues to support
H.R. 3530, as amended, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3530, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.012 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10275
December 16, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
BANNING SMOKING ON AMTRAK
ACT OF 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2726) to amend title 49,
United States Code, to prohibit smok-
ing on Amtrak trains.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2726
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Banning
Smoking on Amtrak Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON SMOKING ON AMTRAK
TRAINS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 243 of title 49,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘§ 24323. Prohibition on smoking on Amtrak
trains
‘‘(a) PROHIBITION.—Beginning on the date
of enactment of the Banning Smoking on
Amtrak Act of 2019, Amtrak shall prohibit
smoking on board Amtrak trains.
‘‘(b) ELECTRONIC CIGARETTES.—
‘‘(1) INCLUSION.—The use of an electronic
cigarette shall be treated as smoking for
purposes of this section.
‘‘(2) ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘electronic cigarette’
means a device that delivers nicotine or
other substances to a user of the device in
the form of a vapor that is inhaled to simu-
late the experience of smoking.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 243 of title 49, United
States Code, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘24323. Prohibition on smoking on Amtrak
trains.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
the District of Columbia (Ms. NORTON)
and the gentleman from Illinois (Mr.
BOST) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from the District of Columbia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on H.R. 2726.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from the District of Columbia?
There was no objection.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Today, I rise to ask that the House
pass my bill, the Banning Smoking on
Amtrak Act of 2019. I thank my
friends, Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture Committee Chair PETER DEFAZIO
and Railroads, Pipelines, and Haz-
ardous Materials Subcommittee Chair
DANIEL LIPINSKI, for marking up my
bill in committee and allowing it to
move forward to the full House.
My bill would codify Amtrak’s inter-
nal policy prohibiting smoking, includ-
ing smoking electronic cigarettes, on
trains, which, in light of all the evi-
dence of harm, should be codified.
This bill is modeled on a bill I got en-
acted while in the minority as part of
the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018
that clarified that the smoking ban on
airplanes includes electronic ciga-
rettes. This bill is not only an out-
growth of my desire to ensure healthy
environments on all the Nation’s trans-
portation modes, which I strive to
carry out as chair of the Highways and
Transit Subcommittee, but impor-
tantly, it is also the result of the advo-
cacy of an 11-year old child who was
concerned to see electronic cigarette
smoking on an Amtrak train.
Although Amtrak should be com-
mended for implementing its own in-
ternal policy banning smoking on
trains in 1993, that policy could always
be repealed. My bill would make the
ban a matter of federal law and put
Congress on record in support of pro-
tecting passengers from secondhand
smoke, as it has done in banning e-
cigarettes on airplanes.
Smoking bans have been a critical
tool in protecting people from the ef-
fects of secondhand smoke because it is
known to increase the risk of serious
cardiovascular and respiratory dis-
eases, such as coronary heart disease,
lung cancer, and emphysema, among
others.
The World Health Organization con-
siders the tobacco epidemic to be one
of the largest public health threats in
the world, killing more than 7 million
people a year. While more than 6 mil-
lion of those deaths are the result of di-
rect tobacco use, around 890,000, close
to a million, nonsmokers exposed to
secondhand smoke die as a result every
year.
Under my bill, smoking would be
banned on Amtrak trains in the same
manner as airline travel. According to
the WHO—this is important to note—
there is no safe level of exposure to sec-
ondhand smoke. Even short-term expo-
sure can potentially increase the risk
of heart attacks. All the more reason
to ask the House to support my bill.
I strongly urge my colleagues to sup-
port the bill before them.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2726, the Banning
Smoking on Amtrak Act of 2019, is
commonsense legislation. I thank the
gentlewoman from the District of Co-
lumbia (Ms. NORTON) for her leadership
on this bill.
Current Amtrak policy prohibits
smoking on Amtrak trains, Thruway
buses, and in stations. This prohibition
includes smoking tobacco products and
electronic smoking devices such as e-
cigarettes.
H.R. 2726 seeks to codify Amtrak’s
internal policies prohibiting smoking,
including electronic cigarettes, on its
trains.
The bill is modeled after Congress-
woman NORTON’s prior bill enacted into
law in 2018 as part of the FAA Reau-
thorization Act that clarified the
smoking ban on airplanes includes
electronic cigarettes.
The Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure passed this bill by
voice vote, and I urge my colleagues to
support the bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1530
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Texas
(Mrs. FLETCHER), my good friend.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in support of H.R. 2726, which simply
codifies existing internal policy at Am-
trak that prohibits smoking or use of
electronic cigarettes on Amtrak’s
trains.
Amtrak instituted this policy in 1993
and has since updated it to address the
use of electronic smoking devices. I
think this is very important.
Last year, we addressed a similar gap
in the code and included a provision in
the FAA Reauthorization Act to pro-
hibit the use of electronic cigarettes on
airplanes.
This bill once again puts Congress on
the record as supporting protections
for the traveling public from the risk
of secondhand smoke.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill.
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, obviously,
from the conversations we have had
here today, this is commonsense legis-
lation.
You know, we have banned smoking
and also know the problems we faced
this last year with e-cigarettes, the
reasons and concerns that are out
there.
This is commonsense legislation that
I believe a majority of our constituents
are in agreement with. This just codi-
fies into law the past practices of Am-
trak.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this legislation, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I appre-
ciate the remarks of my friend from
the other side.
You can see that this is a bipartisan
bill, and no wonder. When my friend
was in the majority, a similar bill was
supported banning smoking. This is as
quintessentially a bipartisan bill as
one could have in the House, and I very
much appreciate the remarks of my
friend.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
TAKANO). The question is on the mo-
tion offered by the gentlewoman from
the District of Columbia (Ms. NORTON)
that the House suspend the rules and
pass the bill, H.R. 2726.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.014 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10276 December 16, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I object
to the vote on the ground that a
quorum is not present and make the
point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
HAZARD ELIGIBILITY AND LOCAL
PROJECTS ACT
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2548) to modify eligibility re-
quirements for certain hazard mitiga-
tion assistance programs, and for other
purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2548
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Hazard Eli-
gibility and Local Projects Act’’.
SEC. 2. AUTHORITY TO BEGIN IMPLEMENTATION
OF ACQUISITION OR RELOCATION
PROJECTS.
(a) ELIGIBILITY FOR ASSISTANCE FOR INITI-
ATED PROJECTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, an entity seeking as-
sistance under a hazard mitigation assist-
ance program shall be eligible to receive
such assistance for a covered project if the
entity—
(A) complies with all other eligibility re-
quirements of the hazard mitigation assist-
ance program for acquisition or relocation
projects, including extinguishing all incom-
patible encumbrances; and
(B) complies with all Federal requirements
for the project.
(2) COSTS INCURRED.—An entity seeking as-
sistance under a hazard mitigation assist-
ance program shall be responsible for any
project costs incurred by the entity for a
covered project if the covered project is not
awarded, or is determined to be ineligible
for, assistance.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the fol-
lowing definitions apply:
(1) COVERED PROJECT.—The term ‘‘covered
project’’ means—
(A) an acquisition or relocation project for
which an entity began implementation prior
to grant award under a hazard mitigation as-
sistance program; and
(B) a project for which an entity initiated
planning or construction before or after re-
questing assistance for the project under a
hazard mitigation assistance program quali-
fying for a categorical exemption under the
National Environmental Policy Act.
(2) HAZARD MITIGATION ASSISTANCE PRO-
GRAM.—The term ‘‘hazard mitigation assist-
ance program’’ means—
(A) the predisaster hazard mitigation grant
program authorized under section 203 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5133);
(B) the hazard mitigation grant program
authorized under section 404 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170c); and
(C) the flood mitigation assistance pro-
gram authorized under section 1366 of the
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42
U.S.C. 4104c).
(c) APPLICABILITY.—This section shall
apply to funds appropriated on or after the
date of enactment of this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Mrs. FLETCHER) and the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
MEADOWS) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on H.R. 2548, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I am delighted to bring
my bill, H.R. 2548, the Hazard Eligi-
bility and Local Projects, or HELP,
Act to the floor today.
I am proud of the HELP Act and all
that it represents. It is bipartisan,
commonsense, meaningful legislation
that was born out of conversations and
a partnership with local officials in my
home district that will benefit all
Americans.
As many in this body will recall,
Hurricane Harvey hit my district and
the Texas Gulf Coast in August 2017,
causing great devastation. It dropped
nearly 60 inches of rain, it claimed 68
lives, and it caused an estimated $125
billion in damage. It was the second
most expensive hurricane in United
States history.
Members of this body responded to
Harvey’s devastation with the speed
and purpose needed for recovery, pass-
ing three supplemental appropriations
bills, sending billions of dollars in aid
to Texas through different programs,
but recovery was and is still slow,
slower than many expected, and slower
than any can afford.
Before I was sworn in this year, I met
with our local officials at home to talk
about the impediments to recovery:
How could we speed up recovery?
Where was recovery delayed? What
could the Federal Government do?
One impediment that had a signifi-
cant impact on recovery was the proc-
ess for the award of mitigation project
funding from FEMA.
As my colleagues may know, section
404 of the Stafford Act provides that
FEMA may grant up to 75 percent of
funds for cost-effective mitigation
projects through a Hazard Mitigation
Grant Program. Local municipalities,
States, and Tribes are responsible for
meeting the remaining local match.
Their projects must be approved
through FEMA.
When States or municipalities apply
to the grant program, projects, regard-
less of size or scope, require a com-
prehensive review to make sure all re-
quirements of the National Environ-
mental Policy Act, NEPA, and other
statutory requirements are met.
Importantly, these Hazard Mitiga-
tion Grants do not allow for reimburse-
ment of costs incurred before a grant is
approved. As a result, many areas re-
covering from disaster must wait for
the FEMA review to go forward for
months or years at a critical time for
decisionmaking and recovery.
In the case of natural disasters, local
governments need to move quickly on
projects like land acquisition, for ex-
ample, buyouts of homes that have
been damaged, and other projects.
The chief recovery officer for the city
of Houston has told us that FEMA’s
pre-award cost policy, that is, not al-
lowing the reimbursement of costs in-
curred before grant approval, is a lim-
iting factor in recovery, especially in
these cases of land acquisition.
Homeowners simply cannot afford to
wait months or years for decisions to
make their own decisions about wheth-
er to repair their homes or whether to
take a buyout of the homes, and the re-
sult is not only inefficiency, but real
hardship.
For example, the Harris County
Flood Control District received $25 mil-
lion from the Hazard Mitigation Grant
Program to conduct buyouts to reduce
flood damages in areas located deep in
the floodplain where structural
projects to reduce flooding are not cost
effective or beneficial.
But that was nearly a year after Hur-
ricane Harvey that that grant money
was awarded. It took a year because of
the review period required at FEMA for
all applications.
Most homeowners simply do not have
the luxury of waiting a year or more to
begin repairs or to decide what to do.
Many would be open to a buyout, but
funds aren’t available, so instead, they
take out an SBA loan or other loans to
begin repairs. And if you already owe
money on loans or repairs to your
house, a buyout is no longer an attrac-
tive option or even an option at all.
Once a property owner has repaired
their property, the less likely a buyout
is a viable path forward for that indi-
vidual and for the community.
It is not just anecdotal evidence. The
data shows that, for acquisition
buyouts, the quicker you can make an
offer to buy out property after a flood-
ing event, the more likely the disaster
victim is to accept it and the more it
reduces costs overall.
The quicker local governments are
able to move, the more people they can
help, and the more resources can be le-
veraged for recovery.
Having a one-size-fits-all approach to
reviewing projects through the Hazard
Mitigation Grant Program is not effi-
cient or effective. It needlessly delays
critical mitigation work.
So that is where the idea for the
HELP Act came in.
The HELP Act will allow land acqui-
sition projects and simple construction
projects that do not require an Envi-
ronmental Impact Statement under
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.017 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10277
December 16, 2019
NEPA to commence immediately with-
out risk of losing potential Federal
matching funds.
This will allow State and local gov-
ernments to respond more quickly to
the needs of their community and to
plan disaster mitigation more effi-
ciently and effectively.
It is simple, it is straightforward,
and it is needed.
At home, I hear a consistent concern
that Federal disaster money moves at
a glacial pace.
This bill addresses some of that and
will be a real improvement for commu-
nities across the country.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues
Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. OLSON, and Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, my original cosponsors
who worked with me on this bill. I also
want to thank all of the cosponsors of
the bill who helped in the effort, in ad-
dition to Chairman DEFAZIO and Chair-
woman TITUS, whose assistance in
bringing this bill to the floor was es-
sential.
Disaster mitigation is not and should
never be a partisan issue.
I am glad to see the bipartisan con-
sensus in support of this bill and that
we can address these inefficiencies and
these real impediments where they
exist.
There is still much work to do when
it comes to preparing for future storms
that we know will come, but I am hope-
ful that the HELP Act will aid State
and local governments when they do.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this important legislation and
help our families, businesses, and com-
munities recover from disaster.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES,
Washington, DC, December 11, 2019.
Hon. PETER A. DEFAZIO,
Chairman, House Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I am writing con-
cerning H.R. 2548, the Hazard Eligibility and
Local Projects Act. In order to permit H.R.
2548 to proceed expeditiously to the House
Floor, I agree to forgo formal consideration
of the bill.
The Committee on Financial Services
takes this action to forego formal consider-
ation of H.R. 2548 with our mutual under-
standing that, by foregoing formal consider-
ation of H.R. 2548, we do not waive any juris-
diction over the subject matter contained in
this or similar legislation, and that our Com-
mittee will be appropriately consulted and
involved as this or similar legislation moves
forward with regard to any matters in the
Committee’s jurisdiction. I appreciate your
commitment to work with the Committee to
address any outstanding issues as the bill is
considered in the Senate. The Committee
also reserves the right to seek appointment
of an appropriate number of conferees to any
House-Senate conference involving this or
similar legislation that involves the Com-
mittee’s jurisdiction and request your sup-
port for any such request.
Finally, I would appreciate your response
to this letter confirming this understanding,
and I would ask that a copy of our exchange
of letters on this matter be included in the
Congressional Record during Floor consider-
ation of H.R. 2548.
Sincerely,
MAXINE WATERS,
Chairwoman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COM-
MITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND
INFRASTRUCTURE,
Washington, DC, December 11, 2019.
Hon. MAXINE WATERS,
Chairwoman, Committee on Financial Services,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN WATERS: Thank you for
your letter regarding H.R. 2548, the Hazard
Eligibility and Local Projects Act, which
was ordered to be reported out of the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
on June 26, 2019. I appreciate your willing-
ness to work cooperatively on this legisla-
tion.
I acknowledge that by foregoing formal
consideration on H.R. 2548, the Committee
on Financial Services does not waive any fu-
ture jurisdictional claims to provisions in
this or similar legislation, and that your
Committee will be consulted and involved on
any matters in your Committee’s jurisdic-
tion should this legislation move forward. In
addition, should a conference on the bill be
necessary, I would support your effort to
seek appointment of an appropriate number
of conferees to any House-Senate conference
involving provisions within this legislation
on which the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices has a valid jurisdictional claim.
I appreciate your cooperation regarding
this legislation, and I will ensure that our
exchange of letters is included in the Con-
gressional Record during floor consideration
of H.R. 2548.
Sincerely,
PETER A. DEFAZIO,
Chair.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to be a co-
sponsor of H.R. 2548, the Hazard Eligi-
bility and Local Projects Act.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
gentlewoman from Texas (Mrs. FLETCH-
ER) for her fine work on this.
And I would like to give her a com-
pliment. It is always interesting to see
how we can name these bills in the
most creative ways to actually let
them resonate with the voters back
home. So my congratulations on call-
ing this the HELP Act, and congratula-
tions to Mrs. FLETCHER’s staff as well,
as they always, as you know, Mr.
Speaker, get very creative on how we
can figure out acronyms to make these
bills have more pizzazz.
So this bill is a commonsense ap-
proach. It is certainly critical to com-
munities that have been impacted by
disasters, where they can start recov-
ery in a much more efficient, smarter,
and faster way.
Buyouts and relocation projects, in
particular, are critical tools for getting
people and property out of harm’s way,
yet these projects take time to plan
and carry out.
This bill would allow communities to
be eligible for mitigation assistance for
those projects commenced prior to
their request for assistance.
The bill ensures such projects must
comply with all other eligibility re-
quirements.
Mr. Speaker, I would encourage the
gentlewoman opposite, perhaps we can
even look at going a little bit further.
She made mention of the current
NEPA standards and all of those that
apply.
As we know, in the gentlewoman’s
home State of Texas, in my home State
of North Carolina, some of those Fed-
eral regulations actually are part of
the impediment of getting some of this
disaster relief to the people that are
most affected.
I know that we have billions of dol-
lars—that is billions with a B—waiting
to be deployed in my State of North
Carolina, as in the gentlewoman’s
State of Texas, so it is critically im-
portant that we come together in a bi-
partisan fashion.
It doesn’t help us to appropriate bil-
lions of dollars here on this floor if it
never reaches the ultimate destination,
which is our constituents who have
been tragically, and many times
horrifically, put out of their homes and
their communities.
This will allow communities to select
early on the best mitigation approach
and begin these projects earlier to en-
sure a faster recovery.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage all of my
colleagues to support this legislation.
If the gentlewoman is prepared to
close without any further speakers, I
would ask her to just give me a nod one
way or another.
Mr. Speaker, I am going to go ahead
and close right here and just say, I en-
courage my colleagues to go ahead and
vote for this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman for her leadership, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
b 1545
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I ap-
preciate Mr. MEADOWS’ partnership on
this, and I look forward to working to-
gether on many more projects that are
of real assistance to the people who we
represent.
Mr. Speaker, the HELP Act, as we
have discussed, is a commonsense, bi-
partisan, meaningful piece of legisla-
tion. It is exactly what we are sent
here to do, and I am pleased to see it
on the House floor today. I urge all of
my colleagues to vote in support of it,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Mrs.
FLETCHER) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2548, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:31 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.019 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10278 December 16, 2019
FUNDING INSTRUCTION FOR SAFE-
TY, HEALTH, AND SECURITY
AVOIDS FISHING EMERGENCIES
ACT
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4719) to amend the Federal
share of the fishing safety standards
grants, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4719
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Funding In-
struction for Safety, Health, and Security
Avoids Fishing Emergencies Act’’ or the
‘‘FISH SAFE Act’’.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENT OF FEDERAL SHARE OF THE
FISHING SAFETY STANDARDS
GRANTS.
(a) AMENDMENT.—Section 4502 of title 46,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (i)(3), by striking ‘‘50’’ and
inserting ‘‘75’’; and
(2) in subsection (j)(3), by striking ‘‘50’’ and
inserting ‘‘75’’.
(b) RETROACTIVE EFFECTIVE DATE.—The
amendment made by subsection (a) takes ef-
fect on the day after the date of enactment
of the Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Author-
ization Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–282).
SEC. 3. COST SHARE.
The cap on the Federal share of the cost of
any activity carried out with a grant under
subsections (i) and (j) of section 4502 of title
46, United States Code, as in effect prior to
the date of enactment of the Frank LoBi-
ondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018
(Public Law 115–282), shall apply to any funds
appropriated under the Consolidated Appro-
priations Act, 2017 (Public Law 115–31) for
the purpose of making such grants.
SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
AMENDMENTS.
Section 4502 of title 46, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in subsection (i)(4), by striking ‘‘2019’’
and inserting ‘‘2021’’; and
(2) in subsection (j)(4), by striking ‘‘2019’’
and inserting ‘‘2021’’.
SEC. 5. AIDS TO NAVIGATION.
(a) Section 541 of title 14, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘In’’ and inserting ‘‘(a) In’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(b) In the case of pierhead beacons, the
Commandant may—
‘‘(1) acquire, by donation or purchase in be-
half of the United States, the right to use
and occupy sites for pierhead beacons; and
‘‘(2) properly mark all pierheads belonging
to the United States situated on the north-
ern and northwestern lakes, whenever the
Commandant is duly notified by the depart-
ment charged with the construction or re-
pair of pierheads that the construction or re-
pair of any such pierheads has been com-
pleted.’’.
(b) Subchapter III of chapter 5 of title 14,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘§ 548. Prohibition against officers and em-
ployees being interested in contracts for
materials, etc.
‘‘No officer, enlisted member, or civilian
member of the Coast Guard in any manner
connected with the construction, operation,
or maintenance of lighthouses, shall be in-
terested, either directly or indirectly, in any
contract for labor, materials, or supplies for
the construction, operation, or maintenance
of lighthouses, or in any patent, plan, or
mode of construction or illumination, or in
any article of supply for the construction,
operation, or maintenance of lighthouses.
‘‘§ 549. Lighthouse and other sites; necessity
and sufficiency of cession by State of juris-
diction
‘‘(a) No lighthouse, beacon, public pier, or
landmark, shall be built or erected on any
site until cession of jurisdiction over the
same has been made to the United States.
‘‘(b) For the purposes of subsection (a), a
cession by a State of jurisdiction over a
place selected as the site of a lighthouse, or
other structure or work referred to in sub-
section (a), shall be deemed sufficient if the
cession contains a reservation that process
issued under authority of such State may
continue to be served within such place.
‘‘(c) If no reservation of service described
in subsection (b) is contained in a cession, all
process may be served and executed within
the place ceded, in the same manner as if no
cession had been made.
‘‘§ 550. Marking pierheads in certain lakes
‘‘The Commandant of the Coast Guard
shall properly mark all pierheads belonging
to the United States situated on the north-
ern and northwestern lakes, whenever he is
duly notified by the department charged
with the construction or repair of pierheads
that the construction or repair of any such
pierhead has been completed.’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 5 of title 14, United
States Code, is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 547 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘548. Prohibition against officers and em-
ployees being interest in con-
tracts for materials, etc.
‘‘549. Lighthouse and other sites; necessity
and sufficiency of cession by
State of jurisdiction.
‘‘550. Marking pierheads in certain lakes.’’.
SEC. 6. TRANSFERS RELATED TO EMPLOYEES OF
THE LIGHTHOUSE SERVICE.
(a) Section 6 of chapter 103 of the Act of
June 20, 1918 (33 U.S.C. 763) is repealed.
(b) Subchapter II of chapter 25 of title 14,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘§ 2532. Retirement of employees
‘‘(a) OPTIONAL RETIREMENT.—Except as
provided in subsections (d) and (e), a covered
employee may retire from further perform-
ance of duty if such officer or employee—
‘‘(1) has completed 30 years of active serv-
ice in the Government and is at least 55
years of age;
‘‘(2) has completed 25 years of active serv-
ice in the Government and is at least 62
years of age; or
‘‘(3) is involuntarily separated from further
performance of duty, except by removal for
cause on charges of misconduct or delin-
quency, after completing 25 years of active
service in the Government, or after com-
pleting 20 years of such service and if such
employee is at least 50 years of age.
‘‘(b) COMPULSORY RETIREMENT.—A covered
employee who becomes 70 years of age shall
be compulsorily retired from further per-
formance of duty.
‘‘(c) RETIREMENT FOR DISABILITY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A covered employee who
has completed 15 years of active service in
the Government and is found, after examina-
tion by a medical officer of the United
States, to be disabled for useful and efficient
service by reason of disease or injury not due
to vicious habits, intemperance, or willful
misconduct of such officer or employee, shall
be retired.
‘‘(2) RESTORATION TO ACTIVE DUTY.—Any in-
dividual retired under paragraph (1) may,
upon recovery, be restored to active duty,
and shall from time to time, before reaching
the age at which such individual may retire
under subsection (a), be reexamined by a
medical officer of the United States upon the
request of the Secretary of the department
in which the Coast Guard is operating.
‘‘(d) ANNUAL COMPENSATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), The annual compensation of a
person retired under this section shall be a
sum equal to one-fortieth of the average an-
nual pay received for the last three years of
service for each year of active service in the
Lighthouse Service, or in a department or
branch of the Government having a retire-
ment system, not to exceed thirty-fortieths
of such average annual pay received.
‘‘(2) RETIREMENT BEFORE 55.—The retire-
ment pay computed under paragraph (1) for
any officer or employee retiring under this
section shall be reduced by one-sixth of 1
percent for each full month the officer or
employee is under 55 years of age at the date
of retirement.
‘‘(3) NO ALLOWANCE OR SUBSISTENCE.—Re-
tirement pay under this section shall not in-
clude any amount on account of subsistence
or other allowance.
‘‘(e) EXCEPTION.—The retirement and pay
provision in this section shall not apply to—
‘‘(1) any person in the field service of the
Lighthouse Service whose duties do not re-
quire substantially all their time; or
‘‘(2) persons of the Coast Guard.
‘‘(f) WAIVER.—Any person entitled to re-
tirement pay under this section may decline
to accept all or any part of such retirement
pay by a waiver signed and filed with the
Secretary of the Treasury. Such waiver may
be revoked in writing at any time, but no
payment of the retirement pay waived shall
be made covering the period during which
such waiver was in effect.
‘‘(g) DEFINITION.—For the purposes of this
section, the term ‘covered employee’ means
an officer or employee engaged in the field
service or on vessels of the Lighthouse Serv-
ice, except a person continuously employed
in district offices or shop.’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 25 of title 14, United
States Code, is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 2531 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘2532. Retirement of employees.’’.
SEC. 7. TRANSFERS RELATED TO SURVIVING
SPOUSES OF LIGHTHOUSE SERVICE
EMPLOYEES.
(a) BENEFIT TO SURVIVING SPOUSES.—Sub-
chapter II of chapter 25 of title 14, United
States Code, is amended by adding after sec-
tion 2532 the following:
‘‘§ 2533. Surviving spouses
‘‘The Secretary of the department in which
the Coast Guard is operating shall pay $100
per month to the surviving spouse of a cur-
rent or former employee of the Lighthouse
Service in accordance with section 2532 if
such employee dies—
‘‘(1) at a time when such employee was re-
ceiving or was entitled to receive retirement
pay under this subchapter; or
‘‘(2) from non-service-connected causes
after fifteen or more years of employment in
such service.’’.
(b) TRANSFERS RELATED TO SURVIVING
SPOUSES OF LIGHTHOUSE SERVICE EMPLOY-
EES.—
(1) Subchapter II of chapter 25 of title 14,
United States Code, is amended by adding
after section 2533 the following:
‘‘§ 2534. Application for benefits’’.
(2)(A) Section 3 of chapter 761 of the Act of
August 19, 1950 (33 U.S.C. 773), is redesignated
as section 2534(a) of title 14, United States
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.022 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10279
December 16, 2019
Code, transferred to appear after the heading
of section 2534 of that title, and amended so
that the enumerator, section heading, type-
face, and typestyle conform to those appear-
ing in other sections in title 14, United
States Code.
(B) Section 2534(a), as so redesignated,
transferred, and amended is further amended
by striking ‘‘this Act’’ and inserting ‘‘sec-
tion 2533’’.
(3)(A) Section 4 of chapter 761 of the Act of
August 19, 1950 (33 U.S.C. 774), is redesignated
as section 2534(b) of title 14, United States
Code, transferred to appear after section
2534(a) of that title, and amended so that the
enumerator, section heading, typeface, and
typestyle conform to those appearing in
other sections in title 14, United States
Code.
(B) Section 2534(b), as so redesignated,
transferred, and amended is further amended
by striking ‘‘the provisions of this Act’’ and
inserting ‘‘section 2533’’.
(4)(A) The proviso under the heading ‘‘Pay-
ment to Civil Service Retirement and Dis-
ability Fund’’ of title V of division C of Pub-
lic Law 112–74 (33 U.S.C. 776) is redesignated
as section 2534(c) of title 14, United States
Code, transferred to appear after section
2534(b) of that title, and amended so that the
enumerator, section heading, typeface, and
typestyle conform to those appearing in
other sections in title 14, United States
Code.
(B) Section 2534(c), as so redesignated,
transferred, and amended is further amended
by striking ‘‘the Act of May 29, 1944, and the
Act of August 19, 1950 (33 U.S.C. 771-775),’’
and inserting ‘‘section 2533’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 25 of title 14, United
States Code, is further amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 2532 the
following:
‘‘2533. Surviving spouses.
‘‘2534. Application for benefits.’’.
SEC. 8. REPEALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The following provisions
are repealed:
(1) Section 4680 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States (33 U.S.C. 725).
(2) Section 4661 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States (33 U.S.C. 727).
(3) Section 4662 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States (33 U.S.C. 728).
(4) The final paragraph in the account ‘‘For
Life-Saving and Life-Boat Stations’’ under
the heading Treasury Department in the
first section of chapter 130 of the Act of
March 3, 1875 (33 U.S.C. 730a).
(5) Section 11 of chapter 301 of the Act of
June 17, 1910 (33 U.S.C. 743).
(6) Section 3 of chapter 371 of the Act of
May 22, 1926 (33 U.S.C. 747a).
(7) The first section of chapter 313 of the
Act of February 25, 1929 (33 U.S.C. 747b).
(8) Section 2 of chapter 103 of the Act of
June 20, 1918 (33 U.S.C. 748).
(9) Section 4 of chapter 371 of the Act of
May 22, 1926 (33 U.S.C. 754a).
(10) Chapter 642 of the Act of August 10,
1939 (33 U.S.C. 763a–1).
(11) Chapter 788 of the Act of October 29,
1949 (33 U.S.C. 763–1).
(12) Chapter 524 of the Act of July 9, 1956
(33 U.S.C. 763–2).
(13) The last two provisos under the head-
ing Lighthouse Service, under the heading
Department of Commerce, in the first sec-
tion of chapter 161 of the Act of March 4, 1921
(41 Stat. 1417, formerly 33 U.S.C. 764).
(14) Section 3 of chapter 215 of the Act of
May 13, 1938 (33 U.S.C. 770).
(15) The first section and section 2 of chap-
ter 761 of the Act of August 19, 1950 (33 U.S.C.
771 and 772).
(b) SAVINGS.—
(1) Notwithstanding any repeals made by
this section, any individual beneficiary cur-
rently receiving payments under the author-
ity of any provisions repealed in this section
shall continue to receive such benefits.
(2) Notwithstanding the repeals made
under paragraphs (10) and (11) of subsection
(a), any pay increases made under chapter
788 of the Act of October 29, 1949, and chapter
524 of the Act of July 9, 1956, as in effect
prior to their repeal shall remain in effect.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Mrs. FLETCHER) and the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. BOST) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 4719,
as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4719.
This bill reestablishes a more gra-
cious 75 percent non-Federal match re-
quirement for grants to support fishing
safety training and research programs
to improve the safety of U.S. commer-
cial fishing fleets.
Commercial fishing is one of the
United States’ most dangerous occupa-
tions, with a fatality rate nearly 30
times higher than the national aver-
age. Workers in the industry can face a
wide variety of hazards, depending on
the vessel or fishery.
Research and training to address best
practices for a specific fleet and/or re-
gion are critical to ensure U.S. fisher-
men are receiving the best possible in-
formation and training before they de-
part the pier. There have been some re-
cent successes in reducing fatal work-
place injuries within the commercial
fishing industry, but targeted safety
research and training remain necessary
and essential to maintain that down-
ward trend.
Over 23,000 commercial fishers work
in the Gulf of Mexico. By providing
fishers, NGOs, academia, and busi-
nesses with access to targeted Federal
safety research and training grants, we
are ensuring that commercial fishing
remains not only a career choice for
Texans but a less risky pursuit, as
well.
This bipartisan bill was introduced
by Representative GOLDEN and has at-
tracted bipartisan cosponsors among
other Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture Committee members, including
Representatives YOUNG, PAPPAS, and
PINGREE.
Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 4719, and
I urge my colleagues to join me in
passing this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 4719 restores the
Federal cost-share for the Fishing
Safety Training Grant Program and
the Fishing Safety Research Grant
Program to 75 percent.
In 2010, Congress imposed additional
safety requirements on U.S. commer-
cial fishing vessels and created these
grant programs to assist the fishing in-
dustry and fishermen in meeting the
additional costs of these requirements.
The grant programs were first funded
in 2018. In 2018, Congress also trans-
ferred responsibility for the programs
to the Department of Health and
Human Services.
H.R. 4719 sets the Federal share of
the grants to 75 percent and extends
the authorization for the grants
through fiscal year 2021. The Senate
Commerce Committee reported a provi-
sion similar to H.R. 4719 in its Coast
Guard Authorization Act.
The bill also repeals and updates sec-
tions of the law dealing with the
former United States Lighthouse Serv-
ice. The service became part of the
United States Coast Guard in 1939.
I commend Congressman GOLDEN and
the dean of the House, DON YOUNG, for
introducing this bipartisan legislation.
Of the 9 leading fishing ports in the
United States by volume, the gen-
tleman from Alaska (Mr. YOUNG) rep-
resents 5 of them. Of the top 10 fishing
ports by value, he represents 6.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield such time as he may consume to
the gentleman from Maine (Mr. GOLD-
EN), the sponsor of this legislation.
Mr. GOLDEN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today on behalf of our Nation’s fisher-
men and -women in support of H.R.
4719, the Funding Instruction for Safe-
ty, Health, and Security Avoids Fish-
ing Emergencies Act, the FISH SAFE
Act. This bipartisan, bicameral legisla-
tion will help ensure that our Nation’s
fishermen have the resources and
training they need to stay safe on the
job.
I introduced this legislation because
I have heard too many stories like
Charlie Smith’s. Charlie, an offshore
lobsterman from Jonesport, Maine, was
25 miles offshore pulling up traps when
the rope snapped in his pot hauler. As
he tried to grab the line, the hauler ran
his fingers through, cutting two of
them off. After the initial shock of los-
ing his fingers, he grabbed a bucket of
saltwater to numb the pain. After call-
ing the Coast Guard, it took 3 hours for
Charlie to get medical attention.
This story is one of countless others
I hear from the fishermen I represent
in Maine who are doing one of the most
dangerous jobs in the country.
According to the National Institute
for Occupational Safety and Health, a
commercial fisherman is 23 times more
likely to die on the job than any other
type of worker. From 2000 to 2016, an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:31 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE7.013 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10280 December 16, 2019
estimated 204 fishermen have died, and
that number has risen to at least 224 in
the past 3 years.
Despite these statistics, Congress de-
creased the Federal share of funding
for fishing safety training and research
grants in the last Coast Guard reau-
thorization bill. As a result, local orga-
nizations like the Maine Coast Fisher-
men’s Association, the Maine
Lobstermen’s Association, and the
Maine Lobstering Union have been left
with higher costs to organize and run
these lifesaving safety programs.
That is why the dean of the House,
Congressman DON YOUNG, and I intro-
duced the FISH SAFE Act, which re-
stores the Federal share of fishing safe-
ty training back to 75 percent, fixing
the decrease to 50 percent created in
the most recent Coast Guard reauthor-
ization. The bill would also reauthorize
the program, as my colleagues have
said, at $3 million per year from fiscal
year 2019 through 2021 and make sev-
eral noncontroversial changes to provi-
sions regarding authorities related to
the former United States Lighthouse
Service.
From Alaska to Maine, fishermen put
their lives on the line every day to pro-
vide for their families and our commu-
nities. On the fishing piers of
Stonington, Jonesport, and Deer Isle, I
have met too many fishermen and
lobstermen who have sustained serious
injuries—lost fingers, deep scars, con-
cussions—or have had close calls on the
job.
That is why I am so grateful to orga-
nizations like the Maine Coast Fisher-
men’s Association, the Maine
Lobstermen’s Association, and the
Maine Lobstering Union for stepping
up and providing fishing communities
with the safety training to ensure that
guys like Charlie can reduce the risk to
life and limb when out at sea.
This bill is a step to make sure that
our Nation’s workers, including fisher-
men and -women, know that we have
their backs.
I thank Congressman DON YOUNG for
working with me on this bill. This, ac-
tually, is not the first bill that we have
worked together on. I appreciate the
opportunity to work with him always,
as well as Chairman DEFAZIO, Ranking
Member GRAVES, all the members of
the committee, and, in particular,
their staffs, as well, for moving this
bill quickly through committee. We
think it is particularly timely and im-
portant for coastal communities.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this important bill.
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, this, too,
will likely be dealt with as common-
sense legislation, making sure that the
grants are delivered and that the prop-
er amount of grants are delivered to
make sure proper safety occurs not
only in the fishing industry, but we
should move forward to try to do that
in all of our industries.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage the support
of all of my colleagues, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I, too,
believe this is commonsense legisla-
tion, and I am pleased to see it brought
to the floor today. I support H.R. 4719,
and I urge my colleagues to join me in
passing this important, bipartisan leg-
islation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Mrs.
FLETCHER) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4719, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I ob-
ject to the vote on the ground that a
quorum is not present and make the
point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
SMALL AIRPORT MOTHERS’
ROOMS ACT OF 2019
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 3362) to amend title 49,
United State Code, to require small
hub airports to construct areas for
nursing mothers, and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3362
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Small Air-
port Mothers’ Rooms Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. MOTHERS’ ROOMS.
Section 47107(w) of title 49, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1) by striking ‘‘In fiscal
year 2021’’ and all that follows through ‘‘the
Secretary of Transportation’’ and inserting
‘‘The Secretary of Transportation’’;
(2) in paragraph (1)(B) by striking ‘‘one
men’s and one women’s’’ and inserting ‘‘at
least one men’s and at least one women’s’’;
(3) by striking paragraph (2)(A) and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(A) AIRPORT SIZE.—The requirements in
paragraph (1) shall only apply to applica-
tions submitted by the airport sponsor of—
‘‘(i) a medium or large hub airport in fiscal
year 2021 and each fiscal year thereafter; and
‘‘(ii) a small hub airport in fiscal year 2023
and each fiscal year thereafter, but only if
such airport has been categorized as a small
or medium hub airport for the 3 consecutive
fiscal years prior to the fiscal year in which
the application is submitted.’’;
(4) in paragraph (2)(B) by striking ‘‘the
date of enactment of this Act complies with
the requirement in paragraph (1)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘October 5, 2018, complies with the
requirement in paragraph (1)(A)’’; and
(5) in paragraph (2)(C) by striking ‘‘para-
graph (1)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph (1)(A)’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Mrs. FLETCHER) and the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. BOST) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 3362,
as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the
bill introduced by the gentlewoman
from West Virginia (Mrs. MILLER).
Few things are more sacred than the
ability of parents to care for their in-
fant children. However, mothers often
face challenges, and potentially public
stigma, when attempting to breastfeed,
nurse, or change their children while
traveling. In fact, a study of 100 air-
ports found that, while 62 percent re-
ported being breastfeeding friendly,
only 8 percent met the minimum re-
quirements for a breastfeeding mother:
an electrical outlet, a table, and a
chair.
The absence of sufficient designated
sanitary spaces during travel can cause
unnecessary stress, wasted time, and
even potential health issues for moth-
ers who are not able to pump.
The FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018
included a requirement that medium
and large hub airports maintain nurs-
ing rooms and baby changing tables for
the convenience of nursing mothers
and parents traveling with infants.
While that was a step in the right di-
rection, there are still a significant
number of commercial service air-
ports—72, to be exact—that the law did
not cover.
This bill enhances that mandate by
requiring small hub airports to also
maintain nursing rooms and baby
changing tables in their passenger ter-
minal buildings. Requiring small hub
airports to provide private, clean, ac-
cessible, and equipped areas for parents
to nurse their children will help re-
move some of the barriers parents face
while traveling and provide critical
support to families when they need it.
Mr. Speaker, I support this bill, and
I urge my colleagues to do the same.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1600
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
3362, the Small Airport Mothers’
Rooms Act of 2019. This bill passed
unanimously out of the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure in
June, and I am pleased it is finally
being brought to the floor.
While a growing number of airports
have designated mothers’ rooms, many
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:31 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.023 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10281
December 16, 2019
nursing mothers still end up in a rest-
room or on the airport floor. When
delays happen, passengers often have
no control over how long they will be
at the airport. For nursing mothers,
these delays can make a difficult trip
even more stressful. Making certain
accommodations within the airport
terminal is essential.
The bill extends the requirements of
the bipartisan FAA Reauthorization
Act of 2018 by requiring small hub air-
ports to provide clean facilities for
mothers to nurse their children. The
law requires that the area be located
outside of a restroom and include a
place to sit, a table, a sink or sani-
tizing equipment, and an electrical
outlet. Importantly, the room must
also be fully accessible to passengers
with disabilities.
When fully enacted, this bill will en-
sure that 97 percent of airline pas-
sengers will have access to clean, sani-
tary, and accessible mothers’ rooms.
The bill before us today also contains
a provision recommended by the Fed-
eral Aviation Administration that will
give airports that grow into small hubs
sufficient time to comply with the law.
The bill has been endorsed by nearly
60 international, national, regional,
State, and Tribal organizations.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter of support from these organiza-
tions.
WASHINGTON, DC, JULY 15, 2019.
DEAR CONGRESSWOMAN MILLER: We, the un-
dersigned organizations, thank you for intro-
ducing the Small Airports Mothers’ Rooms
Act of 2019. By leading Congress to protect
and support breastfeeding, you demonstrate
a commitment to our nation’s families.
Breastfeeding is a proven primary prevention
strategy, building a foundation for life-long
health and wellness. Breastfeeding parents
who choose or need to travel should not have
to struggle to find lactation spaces—no mat-
ter the size of the airport, risking their milk
supply and thereby their ultimate
breastfeeding success.
Building on the success of the Friendly
Airports for Mothers (FAM) Act, already
being implemented in airports across the na-
tion well ahead of the required 2021 imple-
mentation date, the Small Airport Mothers’
Room Act of 2019 (H.R. 3362) would extend
these provisions to small airports. Small air-
ports would have two additional years to
come into compliance, and would be able to
use Airport Improvement Program funds for
the purpose of complying with the new re-
quirement.
Small hub airports would be required to
provide a private, non-bathroom space in
each terminal for breastfeeding people to ex-
press breast milk. The space must be acces-
sible to persons with disabilities, available
in each terminal building after the security
checkpoint, and include a place to sit, a
table or other flat surface, and an electrical
outlet.
Human milk is the preferred and most ap-
propriate ‘‘First Food,’’ adapting over time
to meet the changing needs of the growing
child. The United States Breastfeeding Com-
mittee joins the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services and all major medical
authorities in recommending that infants
get no food or drink other than human milk
for their first six months and continue to re-
ceive human milk for at least the first 1–2
years of life.
The evidence for the value of breastfeeding
to children’s and mother’s health is sci-
entific, solid, and continually being re-
affirmed by new research. Compared with
formula-fed children, those who are
breastfed have a reduced risk of ear, skin,
stomach, and respiratory infections; diar-
rhea; sudden infant death syndrome; and
necrotizing enterocolitis. In the longer term,
breastfed children have a reduced risk of
obesity, type 1 and 2 diabetes, asthma, and
childhood leukemia. Women who breastfed
their children have a reduced long-term risk
of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and
breast and ovarian cancers.
Breastfeeding also provides a range of ben-
efits for employers and society. A 2016 study
of both maternal & pediatric health out-
comes and associated costs based on 2012
breastfeeding rates showed that, if 90% of in-
fants were breastfed according to medical
recommendations, 3,340 deaths, $3 billion in
medical costs, and $14.2 billion in costs of
premature death would be prevented, annu-
ally!
For all of these reasons, The Surgeon Gen-
eral’s Call to Action to Support
Breastfeeding; the Institute of Medicine re-
port, Accelerating Progress in Obesity Pre-
vention; and the National Prevention Strat-
egy each call for promotion of breastfeeding-
friendly environments. Yet in spite of this
tremendous recognition—and laws in 50
states that specifically allow women to
breastfeed in any public or private location—
lactating people continue to face barriers,
even harassment, when breastfeeding in pub-
lic. And when away from their babies, air-
ports are just one of many public places
where they face challenges finding a clean,
private space to pump.
We know that 80% of mothers intend to
breastfeed, and 82.5% actually do breastfeed
at birth. Yet only 25% of U.S. infants are
still exclusively breastfed at six months of
age. Most families today choose to
breastfeed, but a range of obstacles can
make it difficult to fit breastfeeding into
parents’ lives.
No matter what they’re doing or where
they are, breastfeeding people need to ex-
press milk every few hours in order to keep
up their supply. Missing even one needed
pumping session can have several undesir-
able consequences, including discomfort,
leaking, inflammation and infection, de-
creased supply, and ultimately,
breastfeeding cessation. As a result, return-
ing to work often presents a significant bar-
rier to breastfeeding.
Current federal law requires employers to
provide nursing mothers who are nonexempt
employees a private, non-bathroom location
to express breast milk. Airport lactation
spaces are therefore an important step to
support employers that need to accommo-
date lactating travelers as well as lactating
employees of the airport.
A growing number of airports have des-
ignated lactation spaces, yet many lactating
people still end up in restrooms or on airport
floors. Travelers rarely have control over
how long they are in transit, making acces-
sible accommodations within airports a crit-
ical priority. We are heartened to see the im-
plementation of the FAM Act in large and
medium hub airports and look forward to ex-
panding similar requirements to small air-
ports. This expansion supports, promotes,
and protects breastfeeding in rural areas,
further contributing to national public
health goals.
The Small Airports Mothers’ Rooms Act
would help keep our nation’s families
healthy by ensuring that breastfeeding trav-
elers and airport employees (in airports of
all sizes) have access to appropriate facili-
ties. This is an important step toward ensur-
ing all families have the opportunity to
reach their personal breastfeeding goals.
Again, we applaud your leadership in intro-
ducing the Small Airports Mothers’ Rooms
Act and stand ready to help you achieve its
passage.
Sincerely,
CO-SIGNERS
International, National, & Tribal Organiza-
tions: 1000 Days; Academy of Breastfeeding
Medicine; American Academy of Nursing;
American Academy of Pediatrics; American
Breastfeeding Institute; American College of
Nurse-Midwives; American College of Obste-
tricians and Gynecologists; Association of
Maternal & Child Health Programs; Associa-
tion of State Public Health Nutritionists;
Association of Women’s Health, Obstetric
and Neonatal; Nurses; Baby-Friendly USA,
Inc.; CHEER (Center for Health Equity, Edu-
cation, and; Research); Every Mother, Inc.;
HealthConnect One; Healthy Children
Project, Inc.
Human Milk Banking Association of North
America; International Board of Lactation
Consultant Examiners; Lamaze Inter-
national; La Leche League Alliance for
Breastfeeding Education; La Leche League
USA, MomsRising; National Association of
Pediatric Nurse Practitioners; National WIC
Association; Prairie Band Potawatomi Na-
tion Breastfeeding Coalition; Reaching Our
Sisters Everywhere, Inc.; United States
Breastfeeding Committee; United States
Lactation Consultant Association; Women-
Inspired Systems’ Enrichment.
Regional, State, & Local Organizations:
Alabama Breastfeeding Committee; Alaska
Breastfeeding Coalition; Alimentacion
Segura Infantil (ASI); Appalachian
Breastfeeding Network; Baobab Birth Collec-
tive; The Breastfeeding Center of Pittsburgh;
Breastfeeding Coalition of Delaware;
Breastfeeding Coalition of South Central
Wisconsin; BreastfeedLA; Coalition of Okla-
homa Breastfeeding Advocates; Colorado
Breastfeeding Coalition; Colorado Lactation
Consultant Association; Connecticut
Breastfeeding Coalition; Wright State Uni-
versity, Boonshoft School of Medicine, De-
partment of Pediatrics; Indiana
Breastfeeding Coalition.
The Institute for the Advancement of
Breastfeeding and Lactation Education;
Kentuckiana Lactation Improvement Coali-
tion; Lactation Improvement Network of
Kentucky; Maine State Breastfeeding Coali-
tion; Maryland Breastfeeding Coalition;
Michigan Breastfeeding Network; Minnesota
Breastfeeding Coalition; Missouri
Breastfeeding Coalition; Montana State
Breastfeeding Coalition; Mothers’ Milk Bank
Northeast; New Hampshire Breastfeeding
Task Force; New Mexico Breastfeeding Task
Force; New York City Breastfeeding Leader-
ship Council, Inc.; New York Statewide
Breastfeeding Coalition, Inc.; Ohio
Breastfeeding Alliance; Southern Nevada
Breastfeeding Coalition; Wisconsin
Breastfeeding Coalition; Women’s Rights and
Empowerment Network.
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 3362 is a
good bill and will make it easier for
mothers traveling by air.
I want to thank the sponsor of this
legislation, Mrs. MILLER, for her lead-
ership on this issue. I also want to
thank Chairman DEFAZIO and Chair-
man LARSEN of the Aviation Sub-
committee for their bipartisan effort
to bring this legislation to the floor.
I urge all Members to support H.R.
3362.
Mr. Speaker, I again want to thank
Representative MILLER for introducing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.027 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10282 December 16, 2019
this important bill that ensures moth-
ers are accommodated, whether they
are traveling to or from large, medium,
or small hub airports.
As a father of two daughters and a
grandfather of seven granddaughters, I
believe it is vitally important that,
when traveling, the stress level can be
reduced tremendously if these rooms
are available.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mrs. FLETCHER. Mr. Speaker, I, too,
thank my colleague, Mrs. MILLER, for
introducing this bill. And I thank
Chairman DEFAZIO and the sub-
committee chairman, Mr. LARSEN, for
moving this bill through the process. It
is important to families across Amer-
ica.
And, once again, we are seeing bipar-
tisan, commonsense legislation that is
important to traveling families. For
that reason, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Mrs.
FLETCHER) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3362, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SECURE AND TRUSTED COMMU-
NICATIONS NETWORKS ACT OF
2019
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend
the rules and pass the bill (H.R. 4998),
to prohibit certain Federal loans,
grants, and subsidies from being used
to purchase communications equip-
ment or services posing national secu-
rity risks, to provide for the establish-
ment of a reimbursement program for
the replacement of communications
equipment or services posing such
risks, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4998
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Secure and
Trusted Communications Networks Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. DETERMINATION OF COMMUNICATIONS
EQUIPMENT OR SERVICES POSING
NATIONAL SECURITY RISKS.
(a) PUBLICATION OF COVERED COMMUNICA-
TIONS EQUIPMENT OR SERVICES LIST.—Not
later than 1 year after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Commission shall pub-
lish on its website a list of covered commu-
nications equipment or services.
(b) PUBLICATION BY COMMISSION.—The Com-
mission shall place on the list published
under subsection (a) any communications
equipment or service, if and only if such
equipment or service—
(1) is produced or provided by any entity,
if, based exclusively on the determinations
described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of
subsection (c), such equipment or service
produced or provided by such entity poses an
unacceptable risk to the national security of
the United States or the security and safety
of United States persons; and
(2) is capable of—
(A) routing or redirecting user data traffic
or permitting visibility into any user data or
packets that such equipment or service
transmits or otherwise handles;
(B) causing the network of a provider of
advanced communications service to be dis-
rupted remotely; or
(C) otherwise posing an unacceptable risk
to the national security of the United States
or the security and safety of United States
persons.
(c) RELIANCE ON CERTAIN DETERMINA-
TIONS.—In taking action under subsection
(b)(1), the Commission shall place on the list
any communications equipment or service
that poses an unacceptable risk to the na-
tional security of the United States or the
security and safety of United States persons
based solely on one or more of the following
determinations:
(1) A specific determination made by any
executive branch interagency body with ap-
propriate national security expertise, includ-
ing the Federal Acquisition Security Council
established under section 1322(a) of title 41,
United States Code.
(2) A specific determination made by the
Department of Commerce pursuant to Execu-
tive Order 13873 (84 Fed. Reg. 22689; relating
to securing the information and communica-
tions technology and services supply chain).
(3) The communications equipment or
service being covered telecommunications
equipment or services, as defined in section
889(f)(3) of the John S. McCain National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019
(Public Law 115–232; 132 Stat. 1918).
(4) A specific determination made by an
appropriate national security agency.
(d) UPDATING OF LIST.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall pe-
riodically update the list published under
subsection (a) to address changes in the de-
terminations described in paragraphs (1)
through (4) of subsection (c).
(2) MONITORING OF DETERMINATIONS.—The
Commission shall monitor the making or re-
versing of the determinations described in
paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (c) in
order to place additional communications
equipment or services on the list published
under subsection (a) or to remove commu-
nications equipment or services from such
list. If a determination described in any such
paragraph that provided the basis for a de-
termination by the Commission under sub-
section (b)(1) with respect to any commu-
nications equipment or service is reversed,
the Commission shall remove such equip-
ment or service from such list, except that
the Commission may not remove such equip-
ment or service from such list if any other
determination described in any such para-
graph provides a basis for inclusion on such
list by the Commission under subsection
(b)(1) with respect to such equipment or serv-
ice.
(3) PUBLIC NOTIFICATION.—For each 12-
month period during which the list published
under subsection (a) is not updated, the Com-
mission shall notify the public that no up-
dates were necessary during such period to
protect national security or to address
changes in the determinations described in
paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (c).
SEC. 3. PROHIBITION ON USE OF CERTAIN FED-
ERAL SUBSIDIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) PROHIBITION.—A Federal subsidy that is
made available through a program adminis-
tered by the Commission and that provides
funds to be used for the capital expenditures
necessary for the provision of advanced com-
munications service may not be used to—
(A) purchase, rent, lease, or otherwise ob-
tain any covered communications equipment
or service; or
(B) maintain any covered communications
equipment or service previously purchased,
rented, leased, or otherwise obtained.
(2) TIMING.—Paragraph (1) shall apply with
respect to any covered communications
equipment or service beginning on the date
that is 60 days after the date on which the
Commission places such equipment or serv-
ice on the list required by section 2(a). In the
case of any covered communications equip-
ment or service that is on the initial list
published under such section, such equip-
ment or service shall be treated as being
placed on the list on the date on which such
list is published.
(b) COMPLETION OF PROCEEDING.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Commission shall adopt a
Report and Order to implement subsection
(a). If the Commission has, before the date of
the enactment of this Act, taken action that
in whole or in part implements subsection
(a), the Commission is not required to revisit
such action, but only to the extent such ac-
tion is consistent with this section.
SEC. 4. SECURE AND TRUSTED COMMUNICA-
TIONS NETWORKS REIMBURSEMENT
PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall es-
tablish a reimbursement program, to be
known as the ‘‘Secure and Trusted Commu-
nications Networks Reimbursement Pro-
gram’’, to make reimbursements to providers
of advanced communications service to re-
place covered communications equipment or
services.
(b) ELIGIBILITY.—The Commission may not
make a reimbursement under the Program
to a provider of advanced communications
service unless the provider—
(1) has 2,000,000 or fewer customers; and
(2) makes all of the certifications required
by subsection (d)(4).
(c) USE OF FUNDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A recipient of a reim-
bursement under the Program shall use re-
imbursement funds solely for the purposes
of—
(A) permanently removing covered commu-
nications equipment or services purchased,
rented, leased, or otherwise obtained be-
fore—
(i) in the case of any covered communica-
tions equipment or services that are on the
initial list published under section 2(a), Au-
gust 14, 2018; or
(ii) in the case of any covered communica-
tions equipment or services that are not on
the initial list published under section 2(a),
the date that is 60 days after the date on
which the Commission places such equip-
ment or services on the list required by such
section;
(B) replacing the covered communications
equipment or services removed as described
in subparagraph (A) with communications
equipment or services that are not covered
communications equipment or services; and
(C) disposing of the covered communica-
tions equipment or services removed as de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) in accordance
with the requirements under subsection
(d)(7).
(2) LIMITATIONS.—A recipient of a reim-
bursement under the Program may not—
(A) use reimbursement funds to remove, re-
place, or dispose of any covered communica-
tions equipment or service purchased,
rented, leased, or otherwise obtained on or
after—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.028 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10283
December 16, 2019
(i) in the case of any covered communica-
tions equipment or service that is on the ini-
tial list published under section 2(a), August
14, 2018; or
(ii) in the case of any covered communica-
tions equipment or service that is not on the
initial list published under section 2(a), the
date that is 60 days after the date on which
the Commission places such equipment or
service on the list required by such section;
or
(B) purchase, rent, lease, or otherwise ob-
tain any covered communications equipment
or service, using reimbursement funds or any
other funds (including funds derived from
private sources).
(d) IMPLEMENTATION.—
(1) SUGGESTED REPLACEMENTS.—
(A) DEVELOPMENT OF LIST.—The Commis-
sion shall develop a list of suggested replace-
ments of both physical and virtual commu-
nications equipment, application and man-
agement software, and services or categories
of replacements of both physical and virtual
communications equipment, application and
management software and services.
(B) NEUTRALITY.—The list developed under
subparagraph (A) shall be technology neutral
and may not advantage the use of reimburse-
ment funds for capital expenditures over
operational expenditures, to the extent that
the Commission determines that commu-
nications services can serve as an adequate
substitute for the installation of commu-
nications equipment.
(2) APPLICATION PROCESS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall de-
velop an application process and related
forms and materials for the Program.
(B) COST ESTIMATE.—
(i) INITIAL ESTIMATE.—The Commission
shall require an applicant to provide an ini-
tial reimbursement cost estimate at the
time of application, with supporting mate-
rials substantiating the costs.
(ii) UPDATES.—During and after the appli-
cation review process, the Commission may
require an applicant to—
(I) update the initial reimbursement cost
estimate submitted under clause (i); and
(II) submit additional supporting materials
substantiating an updated cost estimate sub-
mitted under subclause (I).
(C) MITIGATION OF BURDEN.—In developing
the application process under this paragraph,
the Commission shall take reasonable steps
to mitigate the administrative burdens and
costs associated with the application proc-
ess, while taking into account the need to
avoid waste, fraud, and abuse in the Pro-
gram.
(3) APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS.—
(A) DEADLINE.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii) and subparagraph (B), the Com-
mission shall approve or deny an application
for a reimbursement under the Program not
later than 90 days after the date of the sub-
mission of the application.
(ii) ADDITIONAL TIME NEEDED BY COMMIS-
SION.—If the Commission determines that,
because an excessive number of applications
have been filed at one time, the Commission
needs additional time for employees of the
Commission to process the applications, the
Commission may extend the deadline de-
scribed in clause (i) for not more than 45
days.
(B) OPPORTUNITY FOR APPLICANT TO CURE
DEFICIENCY.—If the Commission determines
that an application is materially deficient
(including by lacking an adequate cost esti-
mate or adequate supporting materials), the
Commission shall provide the applicant a 15-
day period to cure the defect before denying
the application. If such period would extend
beyond the deadline under subparagraph (A)
for approving or denying the application,
such deadline shall be extended through the
end of such period.
(C) EFFECT OF DENIAL.—Denial of an appli-
cation for a reimbursement under the Pro-
gram shall not preclude the applicant from
resubmitting the application or submitting a
new application for a reimbursement under
the Program at a later date.
(4) CERTIFICATIONS.—An applicant for a re-
imbursement under the Program shall, in
the application of the applicant, certify to
the Commission that—
(A) as of the date of the submission of the
application, the applicant—
(i) has developed a plan for—
(I) the permanent removal and replace-
ment of any covered communications equip-
ment or services that are in the communica-
tions network of the applicant as of such
date; and
(II) the disposal of the equipment or serv-
ices removed as described in subclause (I) in
accordance with the requirements under
paragraph (7); and
(ii) has developed a specific timeline (sub-
ject to paragraph (6)) for the permanent re-
moval, replacement, and disposal of the cov-
ered communications equipment or services
identified under clause (i), which timeline
shall be submitted to the Commission as
part of the application; and
(B) beginning on the date of the approval
of the application, the applicant—
(i) will not purchase, rent, lease, or other-
wise obtain covered communications equip-
ment or services, using reimbursement funds
or any other funds (including funds derived
from private sources); and
(ii) in developing and tailoring the risk
management practices of the applicant, will
consult and consider the standards, guide-
lines, and best practices set forth in the cy-
bersecurity framework developed by the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology.
(5) DISTRIBUTION OF REIMBURSEMENT
FUNDS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
make reasonable efforts to ensure that reim-
bursement funds are distributed equitably
among all applicants for reimbursements
under the Program according to the needs of
the applicants, as identified by the applica-
tions of the applicants.
(B) NOTIFICATION.—If, at any time during
the implementation of the Program, the
Commission determines that $1,000,000,000
will not be sufficient to fully fund all ap-
proved applications for reimbursements
under the Program, the Commission shall
immediately notify—
(i) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce and the Committee on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives; and
(ii) the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation and the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate.
(6) REMOVAL, REPLACEMENT, AND DISPOSAL
TERM.—
(A) DEADLINE.—Except as provided in sub-
paragraphs (B) and (C), the permanent re-
moval, replacement, and disposal of any cov-
ered communications equipment or services
identified under paragraph (4)(A)(i) shall be
completed not later than 1 year after the
date on which the Commission distributes
reimbursement funds to the recipient.
(B) GENERAL EXTENSION.—The Commission
may grant an extension of the deadline de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) for 6 months to
all recipients of reimbursements under the
Program if the Commission—
(i) finds that the supply of replacement
communications equipment or services need-
ed by the recipients to achieve the purposes
of the Program is inadequate to meet the
needs of the recipients; and
(ii) provides notice and a detailed justifica-
tion for granting the extension to—
(I) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives; and
(II) the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate.
(C) INDIVIDUAL EXTENSION.—
(i) PETITION.—A recipient of a reimburse-
ment under the Program may petition the
Commission for an extension for such recipi-
ent of the deadline described in subparagraph
(A) or, if the Commission has granted an ex-
tension of such deadline under subparagraph
(B), such deadline as so extended.
(ii) GRANT.—The Commission may grant a
petition filed under clause (i) by extending,
for the recipient that filed the petition, the
deadline described in subparagraph (A) or, if
the Commission has granted an extension of
such deadline under subparagraph (B), such
deadline as so extended, for a period of not
more than 6 months if the Commission finds
that, due to no fault of such recipient, such
recipient is unable to complete the perma-
nent removal, replacement, and disposal de-
scribed in subparagraph (A).
(7) DISPOSAL OF COVERED COMMUNICATIONS
EQUIPMENT OR SERVICES.—The Commission
shall include in the regulations promulgated
under subsection (g) requirements for the
disposal by a recipient of a reimbursement
under the Program of covered communica-
tions equipment or services identified under
paragraph (4)(A)(i) and removed from the
network of the recipient in order to prevent
such equipment or services from being used
in the networks of providers of advanced
communications service.
(8) STATUS UPDATES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once every 90 days beginning on the date on
which the Commission approves an applica-
tion for a reimbursement under the Pro-
gram, the recipient of the reimbursement
shall submit to the Commission a status up-
date on the work of the recipient to perma-
nently remove, replace, and dispose of the
covered communications equipment or serv-
ices identified under paragraph (4)(A)(i).
(B) PUBLIC POSTING.—Not earlier than 30
days after the date on which the Commission
receives a status update under subparagraph
(A), the Commission shall make such status
update public on the website of the Commis-
sion.
(C) REPORTS TO CONGRESS.—Not less fre-
quently than once every 180 days beginning
on the date on which the Commission first
makes funds available to a recipient of a re-
imbursement under the Program, the Com-
mission shall prepare and submit to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate a report on—
(i) the implementation of the Program by
the Commission; and
(ii) the work by recipients of reimburse-
ments under the Program to permanently re-
move, replace, and dispose of covered com-
munications equipment or services identified
under paragraph (4)(A)(i).
(e) MEASURES TO AVOID WASTE, FRAUD, AND
ABUSE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
take all necessary steps to avoid waste,
fraud, and abuse with respect to the Pro-
gram.
(2) SPENDING REPORTS.—The Commission
shall require recipients of reimbursements
under the Program to submit to the Commis-
sion on a regular basis reports regarding how
reimbursement funds have been spent, in-
cluding detailed accounting of the covered
communications equipment or services per-
manently removed and disposed of, and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE7.008 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10284 December 16, 2019
replacement equipment or services pur-
chased, rented, leased, or otherwise obtained,
using reimbursement funds.
(3) AUDITS, REVIEWS, AND FIELD INVESTIGA-
TIONS.—The Commission shall conduct—
(A) regular audits and reviews of reim-
bursements under the Program to confirm
that recipients of such reimbursements are
complying with this Act; and
(B) random field investigations to ensure
that recipients of reimbursements under the
Program are performing the work such re-
cipients are required to perform under the
commitments made in the applications of
such recipients for reimbursements under
the Program, including the permanent re-
moval, replacement, and disposal of the cov-
ered communications equipment or services
identified under subsection (d)(4)(A)(i).
(4) FINAL CERTIFICATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall re-
quire a recipient of a reimbursement under
the Program to submit to the Commission,
in a form and at an appropriate time to be
determined by the Commission, a certifi-
cation stating that the recipient—
(i) has fully complied with (or is in the
process of complying with) all terms and
conditions of the Program;
(ii) has fully complied with (or is in the
process of complying with) the commitments
made in the application of the recipient for
the reimbursement;
(iii) has permanently removed from the
communications network of the recipient,
replaced, and disposed of (or is in the process
of permanently removing, replacing, and dis-
posing of) all covered communications equip-
ment or services that were in the network of
the recipient as of the date of the submission
of the application of the recipient for the re-
imbursement; and
(iv) has fully complied with (or is in the
process of complying with) the timeline sub-
mitted by the recipient under subparagraph
(A)(ii) of paragraph (4) of subsection (d) and
the other requirements of such paragraph.
(B) UPDATED CERTIFICATION.—If, at the
time when a recipient of a reimbursement
under the Program submits a certification
under subparagraph (A), the recipient has
not fully complied as described in clause (i),
(ii), or (iv) of such subparagraph or has not
completed the permanent removal, replace-
ment, and disposal described in clause (iii) of
such subparagraph, the Commission shall re-
quire the recipient to file an updated certifi-
cation when the recipient has fully complied
as described in such clause (i), (ii), or (iv) or
completed such permanent removal, replace-
ment, and disposal.
(f) EFFECT OF REMOVAL OF EQUIPMENT OR
SERVICE FROM LIST.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If, after the date on which
a recipient of a reimbursement under the
Program submits the application for the re-
imbursement, any covered communications
equipment or service that is in the network
of the recipient as of such date is removed
from the list published under section 2(a),
the recipient may—
(A) return to the Commission any reim-
bursement funds received for the removal,
replacement, and disposal of such equipment
or service and be released from any require-
ment under this section to remove, replace,
or dispose of such equipment or service; or
(B) retain any reimbursement funds re-
ceived for the removal, replacement, and dis-
posal of such equipment or service and re-
main subject to the requirements of this sec-
tion to remove, replace, and dispose of such
equipment or service as if such equipment or
service continued to be on the list published
under section 2(a).
(2) ASSURANCES.—In the case of an assur-
ance relating to the removal, replacement,
or disposal of any equipment or service with
respect to which the recipient returns to the
Commission reimbursement funds under
paragraph (1)(A), such assurance may be sat-
isfied by making an assurance that such
funds have been returned.
(g) RULEMAKING.—
(1) COMMENCEMENT.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Commission shall commence a rule-
making to implement this section.
(2) COMPLETION.—The Commission shall
complete the rulemaking under paragraph
(1) not later than 1 year after the date of the
enactment of this Act.
(h) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING TIM-
ING OF REIMBURSEMENT.—Nothing in this sec-
tion shall be construed to prohibit the Com-
mission from making a reimbursement under
the Program to a provider of advanced com-
munications service before the provider in-
curs the cost of the permanent removal, re-
placement, and disposal of the covered com-
munications equipment or service for which
the application of the provider has been ap-
proved under this section.
(i) EDUCATION EFFORTS.—The Commission
shall engage in education efforts with pro-
viders of advanced communications service
to—
(1) encourage such providers to participate
in the Program; and
(2) assist such providers in submitting ap-
plications for the Program.
(j) SEPARATE FROM FEDERAL UNIVERSAL
SERVICE PROGRAMS.—The Program shall be
separate from any Federal universal service
program established under section 254 of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 254).
SEC. 5. REPORTS ON COVERED COMMUNICA-
TIONS EQUIPMENT OR SERVICES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Each provider of ad-
vanced communications service shall submit
an annual report to the Commission, in a
form to be determined by the Commission,
regarding whether such provider has pur-
chased, rented, leased, or otherwise obtained
any covered communications equipment or
service on or after—
(1) in the case of any covered communica-
tions equipment or service that is on the ini-
tial list published under section 2(a), August
14, 2018; or
(2) in the case of any covered communica-
tions equipment or service that is not on the
initial list published under section 2(a), the
date that is 60 days after the date on which
the Commission places such equipment or
service on the list required by such section.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—If a provider
of advanced communications service cer-
tifies to the Commission that such provider
does not have any covered communications
equipment or service in the network of such
provider, such provider is not required to
submit a report under subsection (a) after
making such certification, unless such pro-
vider later purchases, rents, leases, or other-
wise obtains any covered communications
equipment or service.
(c) JUSTIFICATION.—If a provider of ad-
vanced communications service indicates in
a report under subsection (a) that such pro-
vider has purchased, rented, leased, or other-
wise obtained any covered communications
equipment or service as described in such
subsection, such provider shall include in
such report—
(1) a detailed justification for such action;
(2) information about whether such cov-
ered communications equipment or service
has subsequently been removed and replaced
pursuant to section 4; and
(3) information about whether such pro-
vider plans to continue to purchase, rent,
lease, or otherwise obtain, or install or use,
such covered communications equipment or
service and, if so, why.
(d) PROCEEDING.—The Commission shall
implement this section as part of the rule-
making required by section 4(g).
SEC. 6. HOLD HARMLESS.
In the case of a person who is a winner of
the Connect America Fund Phase II auction,
has not yet been authorized to receive Con-
nect America Fund Phase II support, and
demonstrates an inability to reasonably
meet the build-out and service obligations of
such person under Connect America Fund
Phase II without using equipment or services
prohibited under this Act, such person may
withdraw the application of such person for
Connect America Fund Phase II support
without being found in default or subject to
forfeiture. The Commission may set a dead-
line to make such a withdrawal that is not
earlier than the date that is 60 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 7. ENFORCEMENT.
(a) VIOLATIONS.—A violation of this Act or
a regulation promulgated under this Act
shall be treated as a violation of the Commu-
nications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.) or
a regulation promulgated under such Act, re-
spectively. The Commission shall enforce
this Act and the regulations promulgated
under this Act in the same manner, by the
same means, and with the same jurisdiction,
powers, and duties as though all applicable
terms and provisions of the Communications
Act of 1934 were incorporated into and made
a part of this Act.
(b) ADDITIONAL PENALTIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), in addition to penalties under
the Communications Act of 1934, a recipient
of a reimbursement under the Program found
to have violated section 4, the regulations
promulgated under such section, or the com-
mitments made by the recipient in the appli-
cation for the reimbursement—
(A) shall repay to the Commission all re-
imbursement funds provided to the recipient
under the Program;
(B) shall be barred from further participa-
tion in the Program;
(C) shall be referred to all appropriate law
enforcement agencies or officials for further
action under applicable criminal and civil
laws; and
(D) may be barred by the Commission from
participation in other programs of the Com-
mission, including the Federal universal
service support programs established under
section 254 of the Communications Act of
1934 (47 U.S.C. 254).
(2) NOTICE AND OPPORTUNITY TO CURE.—The
penalties described in paragraph (1) shall not
apply to a recipient of a reimbursement
under the Program unless—
(A) the Commission provides the recipient
with notice of the violation; and
(B) the recipient fails to cure the violation
within 180 days after the Commission pro-
vides such notice.
(c) RECOVERY OF FUNDS.—The Commission
shall immediately take action to recover all
reimbursement funds awarded to a recipient
of a reimbursement under the Program in
any case in which such recipient is required
to repay reimbursement funds under sub-
section (b)(1)(A).
SEC. 8. NTIA PROGRAM FOR PREVENTING FU-
TURE VULNERABILITIES.
(a) FUTURE VULNERABILITY PROGRAM.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 120
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, including an opportunity for notice and
comment, the Assistant Secretary, in co-
operation with the Director of National In-
telligence, the Director of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, and the Commission,
shall establish a program to share informa-
tion regarding supply chain security risks
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE7.008 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10285
December 16, 2019
with trusted providers of advanced commu-
nications service and trusted suppliers of
communications equipment or services.
(2) ACTIVITIES.—In carrying out the pro-
gram established under paragraph (1), the
Assistant Secretary shall—
(A) conduct regular briefings and other
events to share information with trusted
providers of advanced communications serv-
ice and trusted suppliers of communications
equipment or services;
(B) engage with trusted providers of ad-
vanced communications service and trusted
suppliers of communications equipment or
services, in particular such providers and
suppliers that—
(i) are small businesses; or
(ii) primarily serve rural areas;
(C) not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, submit to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate a plan for—
(i) declassifying material, when feasible, to
help share information regarding supply
chain security risks with trusted providers
of advanced communications service and
trusted suppliers of communications equip-
ment or services; and
(ii) expediting and expanding the provision
of security clearances to facilitate informa-
tion sharing regarding supply chain security
risks with trusted providers of advanced
communications service and trusted sup-
pliers of communications equipment or serv-
ices; and
(D) ensure that the activities carried out
through the program are consistent with
and, to the extent practicable, integrated
with, ongoing activities of the Department
of Homeland Security and the Department of
Commerce.
(3) SCOPE OF PROGRAM.—The program es-
tablished under paragraph (1) shall involve
only the sharing of information regarding
supply chain security risks by the Federal
Government to trusted providers of advanced
communications service and trusted sup-
pliers of communications equipment or serv-
ices, and not the sharing of such information
by such providers and suppliers to the Fed-
eral Government.
(b) REPRESENTATION ON CSRIC OF INTER-
ESTS OF PUBLIC AND CONSUMERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall ap-
point to the Communications Security, Reli-
ability, and Interoperability Council (or any
successor thereof), and to each sub-
committee, workgroup, or other subdivision
of the Council (or any such successor), at
least one member to represent the interests
of the public and consumers.
(2) INITIAL APPOINTMENTS.—The Commis-
sion shall make the initial appointments re-
quired by paragraph (1) not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act. Any member so appointed shall be in
addition to the members of the Council, or
the members of the subdivision of the Coun-
cil to which the appointment is being made,
as the case may be, as of the date of the en-
actment of this Act.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ASSISTANT SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘As-
sistant Secretary’’ means the Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce for Communications and
Information.
(2) FOREIGN ADVERSARY.—The term ‘‘for-
eign adversary’’ means any foreign govern-
ment or foreign nongovernment person en-
gaged in a long-term pattern or serious in-
stances of conduct significantly adverse to
the national security of the United States or
security and safety of United States persons.
(3) SUPPLY CHAIN SECURITY RISK.—The term
‘‘supply chain security risk’’ includes spe-
cific risk and vulnerability information re-
lated to equipment and software.
(4) TRUSTED.—The term ‘‘trusted’’ means,
with respect to a provider of advanced com-
munications service or a supplier of commu-
nications equipment or service, that the As-
sistant Secretary has determined that such
provider or supplier is not owned by, con-
trolled by, or subject to the influence of a
foreign adversary.
SEC. 9. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) ADVANCED COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE.—
The term ‘‘advanced communications serv-
ice’’ has the meaning given the term ‘‘ad-
vanced telecommunications capability’’ in
section 706 of the Telecommunications Act of
1996 (47 U.S.C. 1302).
(2) APPROPRIATE NATIONAL SECURITY AGEN-
CY.—The term ‘‘appropriate national secu-
rity agency’’ means—
(A) the Department of Homeland Security;
(B) the Department of Defense;
(C) the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence;
(D) the National Security Agency; and
(E) the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
(3) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’
means the Federal Communications Com-
mission.
(4) COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT OR SERV-
ICE.—The term ‘‘communications equipment
or service’’ means any equipment or service
that is essential to the provision of advanced
communications service.
(5) COVERED COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT OR
SERVICE.—The term ‘‘covered communica-
tions equipment or service’’ means any com-
munications equipment or service that is on
the list published by the Commission under
section 2(a).
(6) CUSTOMERS.—The term ‘‘customers’’
means, with respect to a provider of ad-
vanced communications service—
(A) the customers of such provider; and
(B) the customers of any affiliate (as de-
fined in section 3 of the Communications Act
of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 153)) of such provider.
(7) EXECUTIVE BRANCH INTERAGENCY BODY.—
The term ‘‘executive branch interagency
body’’ means an interagency body estab-
lished in the executive branch.
(8) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ means an
individual or entity.
(9) PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘Program’’ means
the Secure and Trusted Communications
Networks Reimbursement Program estab-
lished under section 4(a).
(10) PROVIDER OF ADVANCED COMMUNICA-
TIONS SERVICE.—The term ‘‘provider of ad-
vanced communications service’’ means a
person who provides advanced communica-
tions service to United States customers.
(11) RECIPIENT.—The term ‘‘recipient’’
means any provider of advanced communica-
tions service the application of which for a
reimbursement under the Program has been
approved by the Commission, regardless of
whether the provider has received reimburse-
ment funds.
(12) REIMBURSEMENT FUNDS.—The term ‘‘re-
imbursement funds’’ means any reimburse-
ment received under the Program.
SEC. 10. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this Act, or the applica-
tion of such a provision to any person or cir-
cumstance, is held to be unconstitutional,
the remaining provisions of this Act, and the
application of such provisions to any person
or circumstance, shall not be affected there-
by.
SEC. 11. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE)
and the gentleman from Ohio (Mr.
LATTA) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Pennsylvania.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent that all Members have 5 legis-
lative days in which to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on H.R. 4998.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania?
There was no objection.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself as
much time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, first off, I want to
thank Chairman PALLONE and Ranking
Member WALDEN and their staffs for
their dedication and working together
to come to an agreement on this legis-
lation and bringing it to the House
floor today.
Today, the House will consider H.R.
4998, the Secure and Trusted Commu-
nications Networks Act, introduced by
Chairman PALLONE and Ranking Mem-
ber WALDEN. This bill would prohibit
the use of Federal funds and FCC uni-
versal service programs for the pur-
chase and use of telecommunications
equipment which poses significant
risks to national security. It would
also authorize the creation of a pro-
gram to enable telecommunications
service providers to remove and replace
untrusted telecom equipment.
It has become clear that untrusted
equipment in U.S. telecommunications
networks poses an unacceptable threat
to our national security, and I am very
happy that we were able to come to-
gether to address this serious issue.
Small broadband providers in mostly
rural parts of our country have turned,
understandably, to the cheapest option
they could find to provide service. All
too often, that has been Chinese equip-
ment provided by Huawei or ZTE.
These companies have been propped up
and supported by the Chinese Govern-
ment as a way of expanding Chinese in-
fluence and gaining a foothold for the
Chinese Government in the networks of
foreign nations.
We are coming together today to say
that the risks posed by this equipment
are simply not acceptable to our coun-
try or to anyone who uses these net-
works. Increasingly, all aspects of our
economy, civil discourse, and culture
run over the internet, and giving a
foothold to those who might do us
harm is a risk we can no longer afford.
What is frustrating is that large
telecom providers knew the dangers
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE7.008 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10286 December 16, 2019
posed by the equipment from compa-
nies like Huawei and ZTE years ago be-
cause of warnings inside our govern-
ment. But smaller providers didn’t get
the same heads-up by our government,
and when confronted with rumors
about untrusted equipment and the
certainty of their bottom lines, they
went with their bottom line.
My hope is that this legislation can
help these folks address the threat
posed by this untrusted equipment in
an expeditious fashion. This bill should
signal to our allies and partners around
the world that network security must
be a priority as we enter a new genera-
tion of communication capabilities.
I am proud of the bipartisan work of
my colleagues on the Energy and Com-
merce Committee to advance this leg-
islation to the floor today. I especially
want to acknowledge the important
contributions Subcommittee Vice
Chair DORIS MATSUI made to put this
bill together and move it through the
legislative process.
I support this bill, and I urge my col-
leagues to do the same.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4998, the Secure and Trusted Commu-
nications Networks Act.
We must protect our critical commu-
nications infrastructure from vulnera-
bilities, and today we are taking fur-
ther steps to remove suspected equip-
ment from our networks and ensure its
overall security going forward.
This bill takes into account impor-
tant concerns we have heard from
small, rural providers that were pre-
viously unaware of possible security
risks when selecting vendors and mak-
ing purchasing decisions. H.R. 4998 will
help fix this information gap by ensur-
ing they have access to the informa-
tion they need to keep their networks
and Americans secure.
It should not matter where you are
trying to connect, whether you are in
rural America or anywhere else. We
must ensure the entire communica-
tions system is protected from bad ac-
tors.
Mr. Speaker, I have no other speak-
ers. I urge my colleagues to support
H.R. 4998, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such
time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I cannot reiterate
enough how important it is that we
pass this legislation and address this
critical weakness in our Nation’s tele-
communications infrastructure.
This legislation came about through
the hard work of the majority staff and
the minority staff of the Energy and
Commerce Committee. In particular, I
would like to thank Gerry Leverich,
Phil Murphy, Dan Miller, AJ Brown,
Parul Desai, and Alex Hoehn-Saric of
the majority staff, and Kate O’Connor,
Evan Viau, and Rachel Rathore on the
minority staff for their hard work and
diligence to get this bill to the floor.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
MICHAEL F. DOYLE) that the House sus-
pend the rules and pass the bill, H.R.
4998, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to prohibit certain
Federal subsidies from being used to
purchase communications equipment
or services posing national security
risks, to provide for the establishment
of a reimbursement program for the re-
placement of communications equip-
ment or services posing such risks, and
for other purposes.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EXTENDING THE U.S. SAFE WEB
ACT OF 2006
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4779) to extend the Under-
taking Spam, Spyware, And Fraud En-
forcement With Enforcers beyond Bor-
ders Act of 2006, and for other purposes,
as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4779
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. EXTENSION OF THE U.S. SAFE WEB
ACT OF 2006.
Section 13 of the U.S. SAFE WEB Act of
2006 (Public Law 109–455; 15 U.S.C. 44 note) is
amended by striking ‘‘September 30, 2020’’
and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2027’’.
SEC. 2. REPORT.
Not later than 3 years after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Federal Trade
Commission shall transmit to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate a report describing its use of
and experience with the authority granted
by the U.S. SAFE WEB Act of 2006 (Public
Law 109–455) and the amendments made by
such Act. The report shall include—
(1) the number of cross-border complaints
received and acted upon by the Commission;
(2) identification of the foreign agencies
with which the Commission has cooperated
and the results of such cooperation, includ-
ing any foreign agency enforcement action
or lack thereof;
(3) a description of Commission litigation
brought in foreign courts and the results of
such litigation; and
(4) any recommendations for legislation
that may advance the mission of the Com-
mission in carrying out the U.S. SAFE WEB
Act of 2006 and the amendments made by
such Act.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Illinois (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. LATTA) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Illinois.
General Leave
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous materials on H.R.
4779.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 4779, a bill to extend the U.S.
SAFE WEB Act of 2006. This legisla-
tion, which I have cosponsored, was in-
troduced by the ranking member of the
Consumer Protection and Commerce
Subcommittee, CATHY MCMORRIS ROD-
GERS, and Representatives ROBIN
KELLY and LARRY BUCSHON. It ad-
vanced out of the Energy and Com-
merce Committee without objection.
b 1615
With our increased global and con-
nected marketplace, American con-
sumers and businesses are facing a
growing number of complex threats
from foreign wrongdoers. The United
States SAFE WEB Act protects us
from bad actors engaged in unfair or
deceptive acts or practices by giving
the Federal Trade Commission the au-
thority and tools it needs to pursue en-
forcement actions against them.
It has already been used to great ef-
fect to protect consumers in a wide
range of cases, including scams that
prey on older adults and connected
toys that prey on our children’s pri-
vacy. Reauthorizing the U.S. SAFE
WEB Act is supported by all five com-
missioners at the Federal Trade Com-
mission. This legislation would extend
the U.S. SAFE WEB Act for another 7
years.
Mr. Speaker, I call on all my col-
leagues to support this measure, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4779, the U.S. SAFE WEB Act. H.R. 4779
extends the U.S. SAFE WEB Act
through 2027 and requires the Federal
Trade Commission to submit a report
detailing how the commission has used
the program, how many cross-border
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.030 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10287
December 16, 2019
complaints the commission has re-
ceived and acted upon, the identifica-
tion of foreign agencies the commis-
sion has cooperated with on enforce-
ment actions, the litigation the com-
mission has brought in foreign courts,
and any recommendations the commis-
sion may have to advance its inter-
national mission.
The SAFE WEB Act ensures the FTC
has the tools it needs to protect Amer-
ican consumers from foreign bad actors
with respect to data privacy, data
breaches, spyware, spam, robocalls, and
the like. This is an important program
to ensure cross-border data flows that
are critical for our small businesses to
have a global reach in our ever-con-
nected world. This act also reinforces
our efforts to set a strong Federal
standard for consumer privacy to show
the world we are united in this under-
taking.
I want to thank the Republican lead-
er of the Consumer Protection and
Commerce Subcommittee, Mrs. ROD-
GERS; Dr. BUCSHON; Ms. KELLY; and the
chair, Chair SCHAKOWSKY, for their bi-
partisan work to extend this critical
program.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and seeing that I have
no further speakers, I am prepared to
close. I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
am prepared to close, but I do want to
say that this is an example of bipar-
tisan legislation that I am so proud of
that has come out of the Consumer
Protection and Commerce Sub-
committee, and I am really grateful to
my ranking Republican, her authorship
of this legislation and her work to get
it passed that will certainly protect us
from foreign bad actors, scams, and de-
ceptive practices. It gives the Federal
Trade Commission more authority.
Mr. Speaker, this is a bill that I am
hoping that all of our colleagues can
endorse, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I also want
to thank the chair for her work on this
legislation. I urge support of H.R. 4779
from this House, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4779, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
BROADBAND DEPLOYMENT ACCU-
RACY AND TECHNOLOGICAL
AVAILABILITY ACT
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend
the rules and pass the bill (H.R. 4229) to
require the Federal Communications
Commission to issue rules relating to
the collection of data with respect to
the availability of broadband services,
and for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4229
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Broadband De-
ployment Accuracy and Technological Avail-
ability Act’’ or the ‘‘Broadband DATA Act’’.
SEC. 2. BROADBAND DATA.
The Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
151 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘TITLE VIII—BROADBAND DATA
‘‘SEC. 801. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘In this title:
‘‘(1) BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE.—
The term ‘broadband internet access service’ has
the meaning given the term in section 8.1(b) of
title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, or any
successor regulation.
‘‘(2) BROADBAND MAP.—The term ‘Broadband
Map’ means the map created by the Commission
under section 802(c)(1)(A).
‘‘(3) CELL EDGE PROBABILITY.—The term ‘cell
edge probability’ means the likelihood that the
minimum threshold download and upload
speeds with respect to broadband internet access
service will be met or exceeded at a distance
from a base station that is intended to indicate
the ultimate edge of the coverage area of a cell.
‘‘(4) CELL LOADING.—The term ‘cell loading’
means the percentage of the available air inter-
face resources of a base station that are used by
consumers with respect to broadband internet
access service.
‘‘(5) CLUTTER.—The term ‘clutter’ means a
natural or man-made surface feature that af-
fects the propagation of a signal from a base
station.
‘‘(6) FABRIC.—The term ‘Fabric’ means the
Broadband Serviceable Location Fabric estab-
lished under section 802(b)(1)(B).
‘‘(7) FORM 477.—The term ‘Form 477’ means
Form 477 of the Commission relating to local
telephone competition and broadband reporting.
‘‘(8) INDIAN TRIBE.—The term ‘Indian Tribe’
has the meaning given the term ‘Indian tribe’ in
section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and
Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
‘‘(9) MOBILITY FUND PHASE II.—The term ‘Mo-
bility Fund Phase II’ means the second phase of
the proceeding to provide universal service sup-
port from the Mobility Fund (WC Docket No. 10–
90; WT Docket No. 10–208).
‘‘(10) PROPAGATION MODEL.—The term ‘propa-
gation model’ means a mathematical formula-
tion for the characterization of radio wave prop-
agation as a function of frequency, distance,
and other conditions.
‘‘(11) PROVIDER.—The term ‘provider’ means a
provider of fixed or mobile broadband internet
access service.
‘‘(12) QUALITY OF SERVICE.—The term ‘quality
of service’ means information regarding offered
download and upload speeds and latency of a
provider’s broadband internet access service as
determined by and to the extent otherwise col-
lected by the Commission.
‘‘(13) SHAPEFILE.—The term ‘shapefile’ means
a digital storage format containing geospatial or
location-based data and attribute information—
‘‘(A) regarding the availability of broadband
internet access service; and
‘‘(B) that can be viewed, edited, and mapped
in geographic information system software.
‘‘(14) STANDARD BROADBAND INSTALLATION.—
The term ‘standard broadband installation’—
‘‘(A) means the initiation by a provider of
fixed broadband internet access service in an
area where the provider has not previously of-
fered that service, with no charges or delays at-
tributable to the extension of the network of the
provider; and
‘‘(B) includes the initiation of fixed
broadband internet access service through rou-
tine installation that can be completed not later
than 10 business days after the date on which
the service request is submitted.
‘‘SEC. 802. BROADBAND MAPS.
‘‘(a) RULES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this title, the
Commission shall issue rules that shall—
‘‘(A) require the collection and dissemination
of granular data, as determined by the Commis-
sion—
‘‘(i) relating to the availability and quality of
service of terrestrial fixed, fixed wireless, sat-
ellite, and mobile broadband internet access
service; and
‘‘(ii) that the Commission shall use to compile
the maps created under subsection (c)(1) (re-
ferred to in this section as ‘coverage maps’),
which the Commission shall make publicly
available; and
‘‘(B) establish—
‘‘(i) processes through which the Commission
can verify the accuracy of data submitted under
subsection (b)(2);
‘‘(ii) processes and procedures through which
the Commission, and, as necessary, other enti-
ties or persons submitting non-public or competi-
tively sensitive information under this title, can
protect the security, privacy, and confiden-
tiality of such non-public or competitively sen-
sitive information, including—
‘‘(I) information contained in the Fabric;
‘‘(II) the dataset created under subsection
(b)(1)(A) supporting the Fabric; and
‘‘(III) the data submitted under subsection
(b)(2);
‘‘(iii) the challenge process described in sub-
section (b)(5); and
‘‘(iv) the process described in section 803(b).
‘‘(2) OTHER DATA.—In issuing the rules under
paragraph (1), the Commission shall develop a
process through which the Commission can col-
lect verified data for use in the coverage maps
from—
‘‘(A) State, local, and Tribal governmental en-
tities that are primarily responsible for mapping
or tracking broadband internet access service
coverage for a State, unit of local government,
or Indian Tribe, as applicable;
‘‘(B) third parties, including industry anal-
ysis, mapping, or tracking of broadband internet
access service coverage and quality of service, if
the Commission determines that it is in the pub-
lic interest to use such data in—
‘‘(i) the development of the coverage maps; or
‘‘(ii) the verification of data submitted under
subsection (b); and
‘‘(C) other Federal agencies.
‘‘(3) UPDATES.—The Commission shall revise
the rules issued under paragraph (1) to—
‘‘(A) reflect changes in technology;
‘‘(B) ensure the accuracy of propagation mod-
els, as further provided in subsection (b)(3); and
‘‘(C) improve the usefulness of the coverage
maps.
‘‘(b) CONTENT OF RULES.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF A SERVICEABLE LOCA-
TION FABRIC REGARDING FIXED BROADBAND.—
‘‘(A) DATASET.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall cre-
ate a common dataset of all locations in the
United States where fixed broadband internet
access service can be installed, as determined by
the Commission.
‘‘(ii) CONTRACTING.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subclauses (II)
and (III), the Commission may only contract
with an entity with expertise with respect to ge-
ographic information systems (referred to in this
subsection as ‘GIS’) to create and maintain the
dataset under clause (i).
‘‘(II) APPLICATION OF THE FEDERAL ACQUISI-
TION REGULATION.—A contract into which the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.033 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10288 December 16, 2019
Commission enters under subclause (I) shall in
all respects comply with applicable provisions of
the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
‘‘(III) LIMITATIONS.—With respect to a con-
tract into which the Commission enters under
subclause (I)—
‘‘(aa) the entity with which the Commission
contracts shall be selected through a competitive
bid process that is transparent and open;
‘‘(bb) the contract shall be for a term of not
longer than 5 years, after which the Commission
may enter into a new contract—
‘‘(AA) with an entity, and for the purposes,
described in clause (i); and
‘‘(BB) that complies with the requirements
under subclause (II) and this subclause; and
‘‘(cc) the contract shall prohibit the entity
with which the Commission contracts (and re-
quire such entity to include in any contract
with any other entity with which such entity
contracts a provision prohibiting such other en-
tity) from selling, leasing, or otherwise dis-
closing for monetary consideration any person-
ally identifiable information to any entity other
than for purposes authorized under this title.
‘‘(B) FABRIC.—The rules issued by the Com-
mission under subsection (a)(1) shall establish
the Broadband Serviceable Location Fabric,
which shall—
‘‘(i) contain geocoded information for each lo-
cation identified under subparagraph (A)(i);
‘‘(ii) serve as the foundation upon which all
data relating to the availability of fixed
broadband internet access service collected
under paragraph (2)(A) shall be reported and
overlaid;
‘‘(iii) be compatible with commonly used GIS
software; and
‘‘(iv) at a minimum, be updated every 6
months by the Commission.
‘‘(C) IMPLEMENTATION PRIORITY.—The Com-
mission shall prioritize implementing the Fabric
for rural and insular areas of the United States.
‘‘(2) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.—The rules
issued by the Commission under subsection
(a)(1) shall include uniform standards for the
reporting of broadband internet access service
data that the Commission shall collect—
‘‘(A) from each provider of terrestrial fixed,
fixed wireless, or satellite broadband internet
access service, which shall include data that—
‘‘(i) documents the areas where the provider—
‘‘(I) has actually built out the broadband net-
work infrastructure of the provider such that
the provider is able to provide that service; and
‘‘(II) could provide that service, as determined
by identifying where the provider is capable of
performing a standard broadband installation,
if applicable;
‘‘(ii) includes information regarding download
and upload speeds, at various thresholds estab-
lished by the Commission, and, if applicable, la-
tency with respect to broadband internet access
service that the provider makes available;
‘‘(iii) can be georeferenced to the GIS data in
the Fabric;
‘‘(iv) the provider shall report as—
‘‘(I) with respect to providers of fixed wireless
broadband internet access service—
‘‘(aa) propagation maps and propagation
model details that—
‘‘(AA) satisfy standards that are similar to
those applicable to providers of mobile
broadband internet access service under sub-
paragraph (B) with respect to propagation maps
and propagation model details, taking into ac-
count material differences between fixed wire-
less and mobile broadband internet access serv-
ice; and
‘‘(BB) reflect the speeds and latency of the
service provided by the provider; or
‘‘(bb) a list of addresses or locations that con-
stitute the service area of the provider, except
that the Commission—
‘‘(AA) may only permit, and not require, a
provider to report the data using that means of
reporting; and
‘‘(BB) in the rules issued under subsection
(a)(1), shall provide a method for using that
means of reporting with respect to Tribal areas;
and
‘‘(II) with respect to providers of terrestrial
fixed and satellite broadband internet access
service—
‘‘(aa) polygon shapefiles; or
‘‘(bb) a list of addresses or locations that con-
stitute the service area of the provider, except
that the Commission—
‘‘(AA) may only permit, and not require, a
provider to report the data using that means of
reporting; and
‘‘(BB) in the rules issued under subsection
(a)(1), shall provide a method for using that
means of reporting with respect to Tribal areas;
and
‘‘(v) the Commission determines is appropriate
with respect to certain technologies in order to
ensure that the Broadband Map is granular and
accurate; and
‘‘(B) from each provider of mobile broadband
internet access service, which shall include
propagation maps, and propagation model de-
tails, that indicate the current (as of the date on
which the information is collected) fourth gen-
eration Long-Term Evolution (commonly re-
ferred to as ‘4G LTE’) mobile broadband inter-
net access service coverage of the provider,
which shall—
‘‘(i) take into consideration the effect of clut-
ter; and
‘‘(ii) satisfy—
‘‘(I) the requirements of having—
‘‘(aa) a download speed of not less than 5
megabits per second and an upload speed of not
less than 1 megabit per second with a cell edge
probability of not less than 90 percent; and
‘‘(bb) cell loading of not less than 50 percent;
and
‘‘(II) any other parameter that the Commis-
sion determines to be necessary to create a map
under subsection (c)(1)(C) that is more precise
than the map produced as a result of the sub-
missions under the Mobility Fund Phase II in-
formation collection.
‘‘(3) UPDATE OF REPORTING STANDARDS FOR
MOBILE BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE.—
For the purposes of paragraph (2)(B), if the
Commission determines that the reporting stand-
ards under that paragraph are insufficient to
collect accurate propagation maps and propaga-
tion model details with respect to future genera-
tions of mobile broadband internet access service
technologies, the Commission shall immediately
commence a rulemaking to adopt new reporting
standards with respect to those technologies
that—
‘‘(A) shall be the functional equivalent of the
standards required under paragraph (2)(B); and
‘‘(B) allow for the collection of propagation
maps and propagation model details that are as
accurate and granular as, or more accurate and
granular than, the maps and model details col-
lected by the Commission under paragraph
(2)(B).
‘‘(4) CERTIFICATION AND VERIFICATION.—With
respect to a provider that submits information to
the Commission under paragraph (2)—
‘‘(A) the provider shall include in each sub-
mission a certification from a corporate officer
of the provider that the officer has examined the
information contained in the submission and
that, to the best of the officer’s actual knowl-
edge, information, and belief, all statements of
fact contained in the submission are true and
correct; and
‘‘(B) the Commission shall verify the accuracy
and reliability of the information in accordance
with measures established by the Commission.
‘‘(5) CHALLENGE PROCESS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the rules issued under
subsection (a)(1), and subject to subparagraph
(B), the Commission shall establish a user-
friendly challenge process through which con-
sumers, State, local, and Tribal governmental
entities, and other entities or persons may sub-
mit coverage data to the Commission to chal-
lenge the accuracy of—
‘‘(i) the coverage maps;
‘‘(ii) any information submitted by a provider
regarding the availability of broadband internet
access service; or
‘‘(iii) the information included in the Fabric.
‘‘(B) CONSIDERATIONS; VERIFICATION; RE-
SPONSE TO CHALLENGES.—In establishing the
challenge process required under subparagraph
(A), the Commission shall—
‘‘(i) consider—
‘‘(I) the types of information that an entity or
person submitting a challenge should provide to
the Commission in support of the challenge;
‘‘(II) the appropriate level of granularity for
the information described in subclause (I);
‘‘(III) the need to mitigate the time and ex-
pense incurred by, and the administrative bur-
dens placed on, entities or persons in—
‘‘(aa) challenging the accuracy of a coverage
map; and
‘‘(bb) responding to challenges described in
item (aa);
‘‘(IV) the costs to consumers and providers re-
sulting from a misallocation of funds because of
a reliance on outdated or otherwise inaccurate
information in the coverage maps;
‘‘(V) any lessons learned from the challenge
process established under Mobility Fund Phase
II, as determined from comments solicited by the
Commission; and
‘‘(VI) the need for user-friendly challenge
submission formats that will promote participa-
tion in the challenge process;
‘‘(ii) include a process for verifying the data
submitted through the challenge process in
order to ensure the reliability of that data;
‘‘(iii) allow providers to respond to challenges
submitted through the challenge process; and
‘‘(iv) develop an online mechanism, which—
‘‘(I) shall be integrated into the coverage
maps;
‘‘(II) allows for an entity or person described
in subparagraph (A) to submit a challenge
under the challenge process;
‘‘(III) makes challenge data available in both
geographic information system and non-geo-
graphic information system formats; and
‘‘(IV) clearly identifies the areas in which
broadband internet access service is available,
and the upload and download speeds at which
that service is available, as reported to the Com-
mission under this section.
‘‘(C) USE OF CHALLENGES.—The rules issued to
establish the challenge process under subpara-
graph (A) shall include—
‘‘(i) a process for the speedy resolution of
challenges; and
‘‘(ii) a process for the regular and expeditious
updating of the coverage maps and granular
data the Commission disseminates as challenges
are resolved.
‘‘(D) AUTOMATION TOOL.—Not earlier than 1
year after, and not later than 18 months after,
the rules issued under subsection (a)(1) are im-
plemented, the Commission shall, after an op-
portunity for notice and comment, submit to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives and the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate a report that—
‘‘(i) evaluates the challenge process; and
‘‘(ii) considers whether the Commission should
amend its rules to create an automated tool that
includes predictive capabilities to identify po-
tential inaccuracies and features that allow a
provider of broadband internet access service,
the Commission, and the public to visualize the
data relating to broadband internet access serv-
ice that the provider reports in order to improve
the accuracy of the data submitted by the pro-
vider.
‘‘(6) REFORM OF FORM 477 PROCESS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date on which the rules issued under
subsection (a)(1) take effect, the Commission
shall—
‘‘(i) reform the Form 477 broadband deploy-
ment service availability collection process of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16DE7.021 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10289
December 16, 2019
the Commission to achieve the purposes of this
title and in a manner that enables the compari-
son of data and maps produced before the imple-
mentation of this title with data and coverage
maps produced after the implementation of this
title and maintains the public availability of
broadband deployment service availability data;
and
‘‘(ii) harmonize reporting requirements and
procedures regarding the deployment of
broadband internet access service that, as of the
date on which the rules issued under subsection
(a)(1) take effect, are in effect.
‘‘(B) CONTINUED COLLECTION AND REPORT-
ING.—On and after the date on which the Com-
mission carries out subparagraph (A), the Com-
mission shall continue to collect and publicly re-
port subscription data that the Commission col-
lected through the Form 477 broadband deploy-
ment service availability collection process, as in
effect on July 1, 2019.
‘‘(c) MAPS.—The Commission shall—
‘‘(1) after consulting with the Federal Geo-
graphic Data Committee established by section
753(a) of the Geospatial Data Act of 2018 (43
U.S.C. 2802(a)), create—
‘‘(A) the Broadband Map, which shall de-
pict—
‘‘(i) the extent of the availability of
broadband internet access service in the United
States, without regard to whether that service is
fixed broadband internet access service or mobile
broadband internet access service, which shall
be based on data collected by the Commission
from all providers; and
‘‘(ii) the areas of the United States that re-
main unserved by providers;
‘‘(B) a map that depicts the availability of
fixed broadband internet access service, which
shall be based on data collected by the Commis-
sion from providers under subsection (b)(2)(A);
and
‘‘(C) a map that depicts the availability of mo-
bile broadband internet access service, which
shall be based on data collected by the Commis-
sion from providers under subsection (b)(2)(B);
‘‘(2) use the maps created under paragraph
(1)—
‘‘(A) to determine the areas in which terres-
trial fixed, fixed wireless, mobile, and satellite
broadband internet access service is and is not
available; and
‘‘(B) when making any new award of funding
with respect to the deployment of broadband
internet access service;
‘‘(3) update the maps created under para-
graph (1) not less frequently than biannually
using the most recent data collected from pro-
viders under subsection (b)(2);
‘‘(4) make available to all Federal agencies,
upon request, the maps created under para-
graph (1);
‘‘(5) establish a process to make the data col-
lected under subsection (b)(2) available to the
National Telecommunications and Information
Administration; and
‘‘(6) make public at an appropriate level of
granularity—
‘‘(A) the maps created under paragraph (1);
and
‘‘(B) the data collected by the Commission
with respect to broadband internet access serv-
ice availability and quality of service.
‘‘(d) DELAYED EFFECTIVE DATE OF QUALITY
OF SERVICE RULES.—Any requirement of a rule
relating to quality of service issued under sub-
section (a)(1) shall take effect not earlier than
the date that is 180 days after the date on which
the Commission issues such rule.
‘‘SEC. 803. IMPROVING DATA ACCURACY.
‘‘(a) AUDITS.—The Commission shall conduct
regular audits of information submitted to the
Commission by providers under section 802(b)(2)
to ensure that the providers are complying with
this title.
‘‘(b) CROWDSOURCING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall—
‘‘(A) develop a process through which entities
or persons in the United States may submit spe-
cific information about the deployment and
availability of broadband internet access service
in the United States on an ongoing basis so that
the information may be used to verify and sup-
plement information provided by providers of
broadband internet access service for inclusion
in the maps created under section 802(c)(1); and
‘‘(B) update the maps created under section
802(c)(1) on no less than an annual cycle based
on the information received through such proc-
ess.
‘‘(2) COLLABORATION.—As part of the efforts
of the Commission to facilitate the ability of en-
tities or persons to submit information under
paragraph (1), the Commission shall—
‘‘(A) prioritize the consideration of data pro-
vided by data collection applications used by
consumers that the Commission has deter-
mined—
‘‘(i) are highly reliable; and
‘‘(ii) have proven methodologies for deter-
mining network coverage and network perform-
ance; and
‘‘(B) coordinate with the Postmaster General,
or the heads of other Federal agencies that op-
erate delivery fleet vehicles, to facilitate the sub-
mission of specific information by the United
States Postal Service or such other agencies
under paragraph (1).
‘‘(c) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO INDIAN
TRIBES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the Commission shall hold annual workshops
for Tribal governments to provide technical as-
sistance with the collection and submission of
data under section 802(a)(2)(A).
‘‘(2) ANNUAL REVIEW.—Each year, the Com-
mission, in consultation with Indian Tribes,
shall review the need for continued workshops
required under paragraph (1).
‘‘(d) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMALL SERV-
ICE PROVIDERS.—The Commission shall establish
a process through which a provider that has
fewer than 100,000 active broadband internet ac-
cess service connections may request and receive
assistance from the Commission with respect to
geographic information system data processing
to ensure that the provider is able to comply
with the rules issued under section 802(a)(1) in
a timely and accurate manner.
‘‘(e) GAO ASSESSMENT OF FABRIC SOURCE
DATA.—
‘‘(1) ASSESSMENT.—The Comptroller General of
the United States shall conduct an assessment
of key data sources that are used for purposes
of the Fabric to identify and geocode locations
where fixed broadband internet access service
can be installed, in order to develop rec-
ommendations for how the quality and com-
pleteness of such data sources can be improved
as data sources for the Fabric. Data sources to
be assessed shall include any sources of relevant
Federal data, including the National Address
Database administered by the Department of
Transportation, State- and county-level
digitized parcel data, and property tax record
tax attribute recording.
‘‘(2) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after the
date of the enactment of this title, the Comp-
troller General shall submit to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate a re-
port containing the recommendations developed
in the assessment under paragraph (1).
‘‘(f) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO CONSUMERS
AND STATE, LOCAL, AND TRIBAL GOVERNMENTAL
ENTITIES.—The Commission shall provide tech-
nical assistance to consumers and State, local,
and Tribal governmental entities with respect to
the challenge process established under section
802(b)(5), which shall include—
‘‘(1) detailed tutorials and webinars; and
‘‘(2) making available staff of the Commission
to provide assistance, as needed, throughout the
entirety of the challenge process.
‘‘SEC. 804. COST.
‘‘(a) LIMITATION.—The Commission may not
use funds from the universal service programs of
the Commission established under section 254,
and the regulations issued under that section, to
carry out this title.
‘‘(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Commission to carry out this title—
‘‘(1) $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2021; and
‘‘(2) $9,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2022
through 2028.
‘‘SEC. 805. OTHER PROVISIONS.
‘‘(a) OMB.—Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, the initial rulemaking required
under section 802(a)(1) shall be exempt from re-
view by the Office of Management and Budget.
‘‘(b) PRA.—Chapter 35 of title 44, United
States Code (commonly known as the ‘Paper-
work Reduction Act’) shall not apply to the ini-
tial rulemaking required under section 802(a)(1).
‘‘(c) EXECUTION OF RESPONSIBILITIES.—Ex-
cept, with respect to an entity that is not the
Universal Service Administrative Company, as
provided in sections 802(a)(2)(B),
802(b)(1)(A)(ii), and 803(d), the Commission—
‘‘(1) including the offices of the Commission,
shall carry out the responsibilities assigned to
the Commission under this title; and
‘‘(2) may not delegate any of the responsibil-
ities assigned to the Commission under this title
to any third party, including the Universal
Service Administrative Company.
‘‘(d) REPORTING.—Each fiscal year, the Com-
mission shall submit to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the Sen-
ate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce
of the House of Representatives a report that
summarizes the implementation of this title and
associated enforcement activities conducted dur-
ing the previous fiscal year.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE)
and the gentleman from Ohio (Mr.
LATTA) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Pennsylvania.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent that all Members may have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous materials on H.R. 4229.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania?
There was no objection.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such
time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, first off, I want to
thank Ranking Member WALDEN and
his staff for their willingness and dedi-
cation in working with us to come to
an agreement on this legislation and
work with us to move it through the
House.
H.R. 4229, the Broadband Deployment
Accuracy and Technological Avail-
ability, or DATA, Act, introduced by
Mr. LOEBSACK and subcommittee Rank-
ing Member LATTA, would require the
Federal Communications Commission
to take steps to address the many prob-
lems with our current broadband maps.
We have talked about incomplete and
inaccurate broadband maps for as long
as I have been on the Energy and Com-
merce Committee, and I am glad that
my colleagues were able to come to-
gether and finally address this impor-
tant issue.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE7.021 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10290 December 16, 2019
Accurate maps of who does and
doesn’t have access to broadband are a
critical first step in closing the digital
divide. We can’t hope to solve this
problem if we don’t know the scope of
it and where to put our resources. This
bill would dramatically improve the
FCC broadband maps by requiring the
FCC to collect and disseminate far
more granular broadband data for both
fixed and mobile services. The bill
would also allow the FCC to use
crowdsourced data to help verify and
supplement carrier-provided data.
This bill also integrates concepts and
principles from H.R. 4128, the Map Im-
provement Act of 2019, introduced by
Representatives LUJÁN, BILIRAKIS, and
myself; H.R. 2643, the Broadband Map-
ping After Public Scrutiny Act of 2019,
introduced by Ranking Member LATTA
and my good friend, Congressman
WELCH, who has been a leader on ad-
dressing the broadband mapping issue;
and H.R. 3162, the Broadband Data Im-
provement Act of 2019, introduced by
Representatives MCMORRIS RODGERS
and O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 4229 is a commonsense bill with
bipartisan support to fix a long-
standing problem in our Nation’s
broadband maps.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the legislation, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of the Broadband DATA Act.
Over the last several Congresses, I
have been focused on improving our
broadband availability maps, so we not
only inject fiscal responsibility into
our Federal programs but to also con-
nect thousands of my constituents who
lack basic access to a meaningful
internet connection. As we approach
the end of the second decade in the 21st
century, we must ensure all Americans
are able to participate in the digital
economy.
Since passage of the 1996 Tele-
communications Act, the private sec-
tor has invested roughly $1.7 trillion in
their networks using different tech-
nologies. This private investment in
rural broadband deployment is com-
mendable and needed, but we must also
make sure that government-supported
solutions complement private invest-
ment instead of competing with it. The
Broadband DATA Act will do just that.
It will improve our Nation’s coverage
maps so that we can better pinpoint
where internet access is and where it
isn’t. This accuracy is vital in direct-
ing Federal funds to communities that
need it the most.
That is why I am pleased to see this
important broadband mapping legisla-
tion before us today. I have worked on
this bill with my friends across the
aisle—specifically my good friend, the
gentleman from Iowa (Mr. LOEBSACK)—
and in the Senate. I appreciate the re-
newed focus this Congress has on im-
proving the broadband maps because it
is critically important our future fund-
ing decisions are based upon data that
is verified, accurate, and granular.
As Members of Congress, we know
our districts better than anyone, and
we hear from those who do not have
service. When we compared our knowl-
edge with the existing maps, we recog-
nized the need to take action and fix
the maps to reflect reality.
While the Broadband DATA Act will
move us closer in that direction, it is
an evolving landscape and inevitably
we will need to continually evaluate
their effectiveness. That is why this
bill includes a robust, user-friendly
challenge process to appropriately dis-
pute potential inaccuracies within the
coverage maps. The challenge process
is yet another layer to ensuring Fed-
eral funds are going to communities
that need it most and ultimately bridg-
ing the digital divide in Ohio and
across the entire Nation.
Mr. Speaker, today we are taking a
meaningful step to promote broadband
deployment in rural America. I urge
my colleagues to support this measure,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5 minutes
to the gentleman from Iowa (Mr.
LOEBSACK), who is the Democratic
prime sponsor and author of this bill.
Mr. LOEBSACK. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Chairman DOYLE for yielding 5
minutes to me.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to stand
here today to speak in support of my
bill, the Broadband Deployment Accu-
racy and Technological Availability
Act, or the Broadband DATA Act,
which I introduced with my colleagues
Representatives LATTA, McEACHIN, and
LONG.
I have spent my time at the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce advo-
cating for the people of Iowa’s Second
District and for all rural Americans. I
have had good partners on this com-
mittee. Congressman LATTA and I have
worked together on numerous issues,
not just this one, and I appreciate the
time and energy that Chairman PAL-
LONE and Chairman DOYLE have spent
on ensuring the issues important to
Iowans get attention and because they
understand that in 2019 it is simply un-
acceptable that many families and
small businesses, farmers, educators,
and healthcare providers in rural areas
don’t have the necessary access to
high-speed internet.
I have often said that there are two
things needed to connect rural America
to high-speed broadband, and that is
dollars and data. Without reliable data,
the dollars don’t matter. As I have
often said: garbage in is garbage out.
You have to have good data to know
where the problems exist, otherwise—
maybe even more importantly—it is a
waste of taxpayer dollars as well.
When this bill becomes law, we will
finally begin to fix the bad broadband
maps that for too long have often mis-
stated speed and availability through-
out these rural areas in America. In
order to actually fix the problem and
get high-speed broadband in rural
areas, we absolutely must have the
best data available. It really is that
simple. Without knowing where the
high-speed broadband problems truly
exist, we cannot properly invest in
building out that access.
That is why I am proud that the
Broadband DATA Act will, first, re-
quire the FCC to collect granular serv-
ice availability data from wired, fixed
wireless, and satellite broadband pro-
viders; second, it will require strong
parameters for service availability
data that we collect from mobile
broadband providers to ensure accu-
racy; and, third, it will create a chal-
lenge process. This is very important
for consumers; State, local, and Tribal
governments and other groups to chal-
lenge FCC maps with their own data.
It requires the FCC to determine how
to structure the process without mak-
ing it overly burdensome on these chal-
lenges.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I thank
Chairmen PALLONE and DOYLE and
Ranking Members WALDEN and LATTA
and all of the staff, in particular my
staff over here, Scott. I urge all of my
colleagues in this body to support this
bill so that we can finally fix the maps
and build broadband out to rural Amer-
ica.
I have only been on the committee a
short time relative to some others, and
they have been talking about this for
years. I thank Chairman DOYLE and
Representatives LATTA and WALDEN for
all the great work they provided on
this.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I have no more
speakers, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1630
Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, it is abso-
lutely important that we have rural
broadband access. It is not only to help
our citizens but our students. We have
to make sure that our businesses and
our farmers all have the access they
need to survive in this world that we
live in today.
Mr. Speaker, I highly urge our Mem-
bers of this House to support this bill,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such
time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, as FCC Commissioner
Rosenworcel said at our last oversight
hearing, we need accurate maps before
we spend money, and we need better
data if we want good deployments.
More than that, I would add, the FCC
needs to fix the maps that they have
before they go out spending billions of
dollars on broadband deployment in
rural communities. Some of the fund-
ing choices the Commission has dis-
cussed making could impact these
communities for the next 10 years.
The Commission has also acted on a
range of regulatory actions related to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:54 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.035 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10291
December 16, 2019
deployment and competition using bad
maps.
To be honest, I think the FCC needs
to fix its maps before it makes either
funding or regulatory decisions. To be
honest, it seems like the FCC is a fact-
free zone when it comes to the dis-
connect between how bad their maps
are and the kinds of actions they are
taking.
I want to thank the good work done
by my colleague DAVE LOEBSACK. The
broadband mapping issue has been a
passion of his for a long time, and I am
glad that we are acting to address it
before Dave retires. I know that he and
his staffer Scott Stockwell, who is
celebrating his birthday—and I wish
Scott a happy birthday—have worked
hard to get this legislation to the floor
today. It is a critical first step in get-
ting our Nation on the right track to
closing the digital divide.
I also thank our committee staffers
Jerry Leverich, Dan Miller, AJ Brown,
Parul Desai, Phil Murphy, and Alex
Hoehn-Saric on the majority staff, and
Kate O’Connor, Evan Viau, Mike Engel,
and Rachel Rathore on the minority
staff for their hard work and diligence
to get this bill to floor.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bill and address a critical shortfall in
our Nation’s broadband deployment
policy.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
MICHAEL F. DOYLE) that the House sus-
pend the rules and pass the bill, H.R.
4229, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
MAPPING ACCURACY PROMOTES
SERVICES ACT
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend
the rules and pass the bill (H.R. 4227) to
prohibit the submission to the Federal
Communications Commission of
broadband internet access service cov-
erage information or data for the pur-
poses of compiling an inaccurate
broadband coverage map.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4227
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Mapping Ac-
curacy Promotes Services Act’’ or the
‘‘MAPS Act’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE.—
The term ‘‘broadband internet access serv-
ice’’ has the meaning given the term in sec-
tion 8.1(b) of title 47, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, or any successor regulation.
(2) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’
means the Federal Communications Com-
mission.
(3) PROVIDER.—The term ‘‘provider’’ means
a provider of fixed or mobile broadband
internet access service.
(4) QUALITY OF SERVICE.—The term ‘‘qual-
ity of service’’ means information regarding
offered download and upload speeds and la-
tency of a provider’s broadband internet ac-
cess service as determined by and to the ex-
tent otherwise collected by the Commission.
SEC. 3. ENFORCEMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful for a
person to willfully, knowingly, or recklessly
submit broadband internet access service
coverage information or data to the Commis-
sion for the purposes of compiling a
broadband coverage map that is inaccurate
with respect to the availability or quality of
service of broadband internet access service.
(b) PENALTY.—Any person who violates
subsection (a) shall be subject to an appro-
priate penalty, as determined by the Com-
mission, under—
(1) the Communications Act of 1934 (47
U.S.C. 151 et seq.), including section 501 of
that Act (47 U.S.C. 501); and
(2) the rules of the Commission.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), subsection (a) shall apply with
respect to broadband internet access service
coverage information or data that is sub-
mitted to the Commission on or after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
(2) QUALITY OF SERVICE INFORMATION OR
DATA.—To the extent broadband internet ac-
cess service coverage information or data re-
lates to quality of service, subsection (a)
shall apply with respect to information or
data that is submitted on or after the date
that is 180 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE)
and the gentleman from Ohio (Mr.
LATTA) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Pennsylvania.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent that all Members may have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 4227.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania?
There was no objection.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such
time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, today, the House will
consider H.R. 4227, the Mapping Accu-
racy Promotes Services Act, or MAPS
Act, introduced by Mr. MCEACHIN and
Mr. LONG.
This legislation would specify that it
is unlawful to willingly, knowingly,
and recklessly submit mapping data
that is incorrect. This is an issue that
the FCC has been wrestling with for
years.
Earlier this year, the FCC claimed
that, based on data they had collected,
the number of Americans who lacked
access to broadband had dropped 25 per-
cent since 2017. However, this statistic
was based on a colossal error by one
provider that skewed results for the
whole Nation. The provider claimed
that they served 62 million people, or
20 percent, of the Nation with fiber.
This would have made this single pro-
vider the fourth largest provider in the
country when, in fact, they were the
81st largest.
Our mapping problems don’t end
there. The FCC delayed their Mobility
Fund 2 proceeding last year because
the data submitted by wireless carriers
was so inaccurate that it was unclear
what basis the FCC would use to award
over $4 billion in broadband deploy-
ment funds.
This fund was intended to pay for the
deployment of 4G wireless broadband
services to rural and unserved commu-
nities. The FCC halted that proceeding
for over a year and just last week an-
nounced that they would be moving
forward on a revamped proceeding
sometime next year.
The major sticking point is that they
will need to go out and redo all the in-
accurate maps, which are based on
fraudulent and overstated data, that
they currently have. To add insult to
injury, the FCC isn’t even taking ac-
tion against the carriers that sub-
mitted the faulty or fraudulent data in
the first place.
This legislation addresses many of
these issues by making it unlawful to
willingly, knowingly, or recklessly sub-
mit inaccurate data about the avail-
ability or quality of service of
broadband.
Our government can’t make good
broadband policy if we don’t know
where we do and where we don’t have
broadband, and we will never know
where we have it if there are no pen-
alties for submitting false or inac-
curate data.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of the MAPS Act. Combined
with H.R. 4229, the Broadband DATA
Act, this bill will bring further ac-
countability to our broadband avail-
ability maps.
With millions of dollars directed to-
ward broadband subsidies, it is critical
that those submitting coverage infor-
mation to the Federal Communications
Commission do not intentionally mis-
lead policymakers with grossly inac-
curate data.
This bill is intended to deter truly
bad actors from overstating their cov-
erage, and it is an important piece to
our overall goal to fix our Nation’s
broadband maps.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the MAPS Act, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I want to thank
the good work done by my colleague,
Mr. MCEACHIN. This issue has been one
that he has been passionate about, and
I am glad we are acting to address it
today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.037 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10292 December 16, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
pass this legislation, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
MICHAEL F. DOYLE) that the House sus-
pend the rules and pass the bill, H.R.
4227.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SAFER OCCUPANCY FURNITURE
FLAMMABILITY ACT
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2647) to adopt a certain Cali-
fornia flammability standard as a Fed-
eral flammability standard to protect
against the risk of upholstered fur-
niture flammability, and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2647
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Safer Occu-
pancy Furniture Flammability Act’’ or the
‘‘SOFFA Act’’.
SEC. 2. ADOPTION OF CALIFORNIA FLAMMA-
BILITY STANDARD AS A FEDERAL
STANDARD.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘bedding product’’ means—
(A) an item that is used for sleeping or
sleep-related purposes; or
(B) any component or accessory with re-
spect to an item described in subparagraph
(A), without regard to whether the compo-
nent or accessory, as applicable, is used—
(i) alone; or
(ii) along with, or contained within, that
item;
(2) the term ‘‘California standard’’ means
the standard set forth by the Bureau of Elec-
tronic and Appliance Repair, Home Fur-
nishings and Thermal Insulation of the De-
partment of Consumer Affairs of the State of
California in Technical Bulletin 117–2013, en-
titled ‘‘Requirements, Test Procedure and
Apparatus for Testing the Smolder Resist-
ance of Materials Used in Upholstered Fur-
niture’’, originally published June 2013, as in
effect on the date of enactment of this Act;
(3) the terms ‘‘foundation’’ and ‘‘mattress’’
have the meanings given those terms in sec-
tion 1633.2 of title 16, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, as in effect on the date of enactment
of this Act; and
(4) the term ‘‘upholstered furniture’’—
(A) means an article of seating furniture
that—
(i) is intended for indoor use;
(ii) is movable or stationary;
(iii) is constructed with an upholstered
seat, back, or arm;
(iv) is—
(I) made or sold with a cushion or pillow,
without regard to whether that cushion or
pillow, as applicable, is attached or detached
with respect to the article of furniture; or
(II) stuffed or filled, or able to be stuffed or
filled, in whole or in part, with any material,
including a substance or material that is
hidden or concealed by fabric or another cov-
ering, including a cushion or pillow belong-
ing to, or forming a part of, the article of
furniture; and
(v) together with the structural units of
the article of furniture, any filling material,
and the container and covering with respect
to those structural units and that filling ma-
terial, can be used as a support for the body
of an individual, or the limbs and feet of an
individual, when the individual sits in an up-
right or reclining position;
(B) includes an article of furniture that is
intended for use by a child; and
(C) does not include—
(i) a mattress;
(ii) a foundation;
(iii) any bedding product; or
(iv) furniture that is used exclusively for
the purpose of physical fitness and exercise.
(b) ADOPTION OF STANDARD.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Beginning on the date
that is 180 days after the date of enactment
of this Act, and except as provided in para-
graph (2), the California standard shall be
considered to be a flammability standard
promulgated by the Consumer Product Safe-
ty Commission under section 4 of the Flam-
mable Fabrics Act (15 U.S.C. 1193).
(2) TESTING AND CERTIFICATION.—A fabric,
related material, or product to which the
California standard applies as a result of
paragraph (1) shall not be subject to section
14(a) of the Consumer Product Safety Act (15
U.S.C. 2063(a)) with respect to that standard.
(3) CERTIFICATION LABEL.—Each manufac-
turer of a product that is subject to the Cali-
fornia standard as a result of paragraph (1)
shall include the statement ‘‘Complies with
U.S. CPSC requirements for upholstered fur-
niture flammability’’ on a permanent label
located on the product, which shall be con-
sidered to be a certification that the product
complies with that standard.
(c) PREEMPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding section
16 of the Flammable Fabrics Act (15 U.S.C.
1203) and section 231 of the Consumer Prod-
uct Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (15
U.S.C. 2051 note), and except as provided in
subparagraphs (B) and (C) of paragraph (2),
no State or any political subdivision of a
State may establish or continue in effect any
provision of a flammability law, regulation,
code, standard, or requirement that is de-
signed to protect against the risk of occur-
rence of fire, or to slow or prevent the spread
of fire, with respect to upholstered furniture.
(2) PRESERVATION OF CERTAIN STATE LAW.—
Nothing in this Act or the Flammable Fab-
rics Act (15 U.S.C. 1191 et seq.) may be con-
strued to preempt or otherwise affect—
(A) any State or local law, regulation,
code, standard, or requirement that—
(i) concerns health risks associated with
upholstered furniture; and
(ii) is not designed to protect against the
risk of occurrence of fire, or to slow or pre-
vent the spread of fire, with respect to uphol-
stered furniture;
(B) sections 1374 through 1374.3 of title 4,
California Code of Regulations (except for
subsections (b) and (c) of section 1374 of that
title), as in effect on the date of enactment
of this Act; or
(C) the California standard.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Illinois (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. LATTA) each
will control 20 minutes.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on H.R. 2647.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 2647, the Safer Occupancy Fur-
niture Flammability Act, also known
as SOFFA.
This bipartisan legislation, which I
have cosponsored, was introduced by
Representatives DORIS MATSUI and
MORGAN GRIFFITH. It advanced out of
the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce by voice vote.
This bill adopts California’s uphol-
stered furniture flammability standard
as the Federal standard. This new
standard will ensure all Americans are
protected from the rise of upholstered
furniture fires and will eliminate un-
necessary consumer exposure to flame-
retardant chemicals. These toxic
chemicals are associated with adverse
health effects, including hormonal dis-
ruption, reduced fertility, and even
cancer.
For too long, upholstered furniture
has been laden with flame-retardant
chemicals and has been a significant
source of human exposure to those
toxic chemicals. Flame retardants are
known to migrate out of the furniture
and into household dust and persist in
the indoor environment.
Since the chemicals also accumulate
in our bodies over time, babies and
children, whose bodies and brains are
still developing and who spend a lot of
time on the floor, are especially vul-
nerable to toxic effects.
Firefighters have long expressed con-
cern that they face additional risks due
to their unique exposure by the com-
bustion of flame-retardant chemicals
that occurs when they are battling
fires.
Flame-retardant chemicals in fur-
niture are all risk and no reward. Test-
ing by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission has shown flame
retardants added to furniture provide
no meaningful fire safety benefit and
make no difference in how much time
you have to escape in the event of a
fire.
With this legislation, consumers will
no longer have to second-guess whether
or not the new sofa that they are pur-
chasing meets stringent flammability
standards. Manufacturers will be re-
quired to include a statement on a per-
manent label regarding the product’s
compliance with this new standard.
Mr. Speaker, I call on my colleagues
to support this important legislation
for public health and safety, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
2647, the Safer Occupancy Furniture
Flammability Act, or SOFFA.
SOFFA adopts a national Federal
standard for upholstered furniture.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.039 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10293
December 16, 2019
SOFFA is important to ensure uni-
formity in the regulation of flamma-
bility standards for upholstered fur-
niture to avoid a patchwork of State
laws. This provides necessary certainty
to the industry and also safety for con-
sumers who know, no matter what
their ZIP Code is, they will enjoy the
same protections.
I am glad to see my friends across
the aisle agree that the Federal Gov-
ernment must act to establish a na-
tional standard here. This debate is
timely because we are having this very
same discussion with respect to online
privacy.
As my good friends know, the inter-
net knows no boundaries. Upholstered
furniture, like privacy, should enjoy a
national standard to avoid a patchwork
of State laws.
If it makes sense here, it must make
sense with privacy. We do not want
States regulating the internet dif-
ferently. Consumer protections should
not depend on Zip Codes.
I am encouraged to see my colleagues
agree today that, with upholstered fur-
niture, a national framework makes
sense. I urge them to apply the same to
online privacy.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman from California (Ms. MATSUI)
and the gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
GRIFFITH) for their bipartisan work on
this bill, and the chair, the gentle-
woman from Illinois (Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY), for her work on this legisla-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I again urge my col-
leagues to support SOFFA, H.R. 2647,
and pass this very important legisla-
tion, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
b 1645
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Think of it, that in our upholstered
furniture there can be toxic chemicals
that actually cause tremendous health
hazards, not only to the people who
own that furniture, but, now, to fire-
fighters who are coming to put out
fires. That is one.
And number two, we find that these
don’t really have any effect on fires
and make the time shorter that you
can get out or actually reduce the
chance of fire. So as I said, there is no
gain in having these chemicals.
Mr. Speaker, I have two letters that
I will include in the RECORD, and they
are:
One, a letter from 17 organizations,
including the Natural Resources De-
fense Council, Consumer Federation of
America, Earthjustice, Green Science
Policy Institute, Safer Chemicals
Healthy Families, and Toxic-Free Fu-
ture, among many others, urging
strong support by Members for SOFFA;
and
Two, a letter from 15 national organi-
zations representing consumers
throughout the United States, includ-
ing the Consumer Federation of Amer-
ica, National Consumers League, Kids
in Danger, Public Citizen, and Safe
Kids Worldwide, among many others,
also urging strong support for this leg-
islation.
DECEMBER 16, 2019.
DEAR MEMBER OF CONGRESS: The under-
signed groups urge you to vote YES on the
SOFFA Act (H.R. 2647), led by Representa-
tives Matsui and Griffith. This bipartisan
legislation would help safeguard public
health. There is currently no flammability
standard for upholstered furniture at the fed-
eral level. This is a major gap that Congress
should fill. Fortunately, the state of Cali-
fornia recently conducted an extensive proc-
ess to identify a furniture flammability
standard that would provide protection
against the vast majority of upholstered fur-
niture fires, without the need for flame re-
tardant chemicals, which have been linked
to a variety of adverse health effects, includ-
ing impaired brain development, reproduc-
tive problems, and cancers. Firefighters and
children face especially high exposures and
risks. The SOFFA Act would make Califor-
nia’s flammability standard for upholstered
furniture the standard across the nation.
In 2013, California’s Bureau of Household
Goods and Services (‘‘Bureau’’) determined
that the vast majority of upholstered fur-
niture fires are started by smoldering mate-
rials on the fabric surface of the furniture.
Therefore, it adopted a standard that ad-
dresses the safety threat of smoldering mate-
rials igniting the cover fabric of furniture.
The result was California Technical Bulletin
117–2013 (TB 117–2013). TB 117–2013 was widely
supported by firefighters, environmental and
public health groups, and independent fire
scientists.
Since the standard was adopted, additional
science has reinforced its importance and ef-
fectiveness. A 2019 study published in the
American Journal of Public Health found
that among furniture fires, those caused by
smoking products were the deadliest, and
that the odds of someone dying in a fur-
niture fire caused by smoking was three
times greater than in a furniture fire caused
by an open flame (such as a candle or
match). It also found that standards focused
on fires caused by an open flame and that re-
lied on the addition of toxic flame retardant
chemicals to furniture were ineffective in re-
ducing the incidence of fires. The authors
concluded that ‘‘[d]ata on injury and death
in residential fires support greater attention
to smoking-related fires in furniture, be-
cause they are associated with a much high-
er risk of death than are fires ignited by
open flames. Standards such as TB117–2013
are designed to address cigarette ignition of
furniture without the use of toxic FR [flame
retardant] chemicals. Future regulations to
increase fire safety of residential furniture
should continue to focus on ignition from
smoking materials.’’
Making California’s TB 117–2013 the na-
tional flammability standard would end spo-
radic efforts to promulgate open flame
standards that promote the use of toxic,
flame retardant chemicals without providing
a fire safety benefit. It would also provide a
uniform standard for the furniture industry,
while being health protective. The Consumer
Product Safety Commission (CPSC) has pre-
viously relied on California flammability
standards as the basis for federal health-pro-
tective standards. The SOFFA Act will cre-
ate strong public health protections for peo-
ple across the country and reduce the risk of
harm by furniture-related fires. We urge you
to safeguard public health for all Americans
and vote YES on H.R. 2647.
Sincerely,
Alaska Community Action on Toxics, Cen-
ter for Environmental Health, Clean and
Healthy New York, Clean Water Action,
Coming Clean, Commonwealth Biomoni-
toring Resource Center, Consumer Federa-
tion of America, Earthjustice, Ecology Cen-
ter (Michigan), Environmental Health Strat-
egy Center, Green Science Policy Institute,
Healthy Baby Bright Futures, Healthy Leg-
acy Coalition, Natural Resources Defense
Council, Safer Chemicals Healthy Families,
Safer States, Toxic-Free Future.
SEPTEMBER 12, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: As organizations
dedicated to improving consumer protec-
tions, we write to express our support for
three consumer product safety bills as they
move to the House floor. These bills would
enhance protections to prevent deaths from
portable fuel cans, injuries and deaths from
carbon monoxide poisoning, and reduce expo-
sure to harmful flame retardants. We urge
you to support these bills to protect children
and all consumers from preventable injuries
and deaths.
The Nicholas and Zachary Burt Carbon
Monoxide Poisoning Prevention Act of 2019
(H.R. 1618) would establish a grant program,
administered by the CPSC, that would en-
courage states to require the installation of
residential carbon monoxide detectors, in-
cluding for vulnerable populations. Accord-
ing to the CDC, during 2010–2015, a total of
2,244 deaths resulted from unintentional car-
bon monoxide (CO) poisoning, with 393 of
those deaths occurring in 2015. This bill
seeks to reduce carbon monoxide poisonings.
The Portable Fuel Container Safety Act of
2019 (H.R. 806) would help prevent flame
jetting incidents through establishing a
binding and enforceable standard that would
require flame mitigation devices, or flame
arrestors, on portable fuel containers to pre-
vent flames from entering these containers
and igniting the gases inside. According to
National Fire Protection Association esti-
mates, fire departments responded to an av-
erage of 160,910 fires per year between 2007
and 2011 that started with ignition of a flam-
mable or combustible liquid, resulting in an
estimated 454 civilian deaths, 3,910 civilian
injuries, and $1.5 billion in direct property
damage per year.
The Safer Occupancy Furniture Flamma-
bility Act, or SOFFA (H.R. 2647), would
adopt a California flammability standard as
a federal flammability standard to help pro-
tect against the risk of upholstered furniture
fires and consumer exposure to flame retard-
ant chemicals. Today’s California standard,
TB 117–2013, is currently the strongest meas-
ure U.S. consumers have to keep them pro-
tected from purchasing upholstered furniture
that is either highly flammable or loaded
with flame-retardant chemicals. While this
bill seeks to protect consumers from both
fires and flame retardant exposure, we urge
members to strengthen the bill through
amending it so that other states retain the
ability to exceed TB 117–2013’s level of pro-
tection if they so choose.
These bills offer a critical opportunity to
protect children and all consumers from pre-
ventable injuries and deaths. We urge you to
support these child health and safety bills,
and to vote ‘‘yes’’ on them as they move to
the House floor.
Sincerely,
Alaska Public Interest Research Group
(AkPIRG), Center for Justice & Democracy,
Chicago Consumer Coalition, Child Injury
Prevention Alliance, Consumer Assistance
Council, Inc., Consumer Federation of Amer-
ica, Kids In Danger, National Consumers
League, OHSU/Doernbecher Tom Sargent
Safety Center, Parents for Window Blind
Safety, Public Citizen, Safe Kids Worldwide,
Safe States Alliance, The Society for Ad-
vancement of Violence and Injury Research
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.041 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10294 December 16, 2019
(SAVIR), Virginia Citizens Consumer Coun-
cil.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
urge strong support for this bipartisan
legislation. I urge all Members to vote
in favor, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2647, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SAFE SLEEP FOR BABIES ACT OF
2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 3172) to prohibit the manufac-
ture for sale, offer for sale, distribution
in commerce, or importation into the
United States of any inclined sleeper
for infants, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3172
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Safe Sleep
for Babies Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. BANNING OF INCLINED SLEEPERS FOR
INFANTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, in-
clined sleepers for infants, regardless of the
date of manufacture, shall be considered a
banned hazardous product under section 8 of
the Consumer Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C.
2057).
(b) INCLINED SLEEPER FOR INFANTS DE-
FINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘inclined
sleeper for infants’’ means a product with an
inclined sleep surface greater than ten de-
grees that is intended, marketed, or designed
to provide sleeping accommodations for an
infant up to one year old.
SEC. 3. BANNING OF CRIB BUMPERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, crib
bumpers, regardless of the date of manufac-
ture, shall be considered a banned hazardous
product under section 8 of the Consumer
Product Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 2057).
(b) CRIB BUMPER DEFINED.—In this section,
the term ‘‘crib bumper’’—
(1) means any material that is intended to
cover the sides of a crib to prevent injury to
any crib occupant from impacts against the
side of a crib or to prevent partial or com-
plete access to any openings in the sides of a
crib to prevent a crib occupant from getting
any part of the body entrapped in any open-
ing;
(2) includes a padded crib bumper, a sup-
ported and unsupported vinyl bumper guard,
and vertical crib slat covers; and
(3) does not include a non-padded mesh crib
liner.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Illinois (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. LATTA) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Illinois.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 3172, the Safe Sleep for Babies
Act of 2019. This legislation combines a
bill that was introduced by Consumer
Protection and Commerce Sub-
committee Vice Chair TONY CÁRDENAS,
which bans inclined sleepers that have
been associated with many infant
deaths, with a bill that I introduced,
the Safe Cribs Act, which bans crib
bumpers that have led to suffocation
deaths of infants. I introduced this leg-
islation with my friends and colleagues
from Illinois, Congresswoman ROBIN
KELLY and Congressman BOBBY RUSH.
For years, pediatricians have pro-
vided very clear recommendations for
keeping babies safe while they sleep.
Babies should only sleep on a firm, flat
surface, free of any extra soft bedding.
Infant inclined sleepers and crib bump-
ers are two products that contradict
these longstanding recommendations
of physicians.
Infant inclined sleepers, like the
Fisher-Price Rock ‘n Play, position ba-
bies for sleep on a dangerous incline.
The inclined nature of these products
goes directly against the guidance of
pediatricians and medical experts.
In April of this year, the public
learned just how deadly they are: At
least 32 babies have died in the Fisher-
Price Rock ‘n Play since they were
first introduced 10 years ago, in 2009.
According to the latest figures, at least
73 babies have died in similar products
like the Rock ‘n Play.
With the ensuing outrage, the Con-
sumer Product Safety Commission
took some action, recalling over 5 mil-
lion infant inclined sleepers. And
thanks to pressure by Consumer Re-
ports and Members of Congress, includ-
ing Representative CÁRDENAS and my-
self, some retailers, including Amazon,
eBay, Walmart, and Buy Buy Baby,
have recently announced plans to stop
selling these products.
However, too many new or used in-
clined sleepers remain for sale on
shelves and online. This class of prod-
uct needs to be banned, and many chil-
dren would still be alive if they had
never been sold.
Crib bumpers also remain widely
used by parents and caretakers, despite
safe sleep recommendations that ‘‘bare
is best’’ and that any kind of soft bed-
ding in a crib creates an unnecessary
suffocation danger.
That is, and the reason that they are
so available is, because crib bumpers
are featured on displays in stores, on
baby registry checklists, and bundled
as part of infant bedding sets.
These products, parents and care-
givers are told, prevent babies from
bumping their heads or getting their
arms or legs caught in the crib rails.
But these products are unnecessary.
Worse than unnecessary, they can be
deadly. More than 100 babies have died
because of crib bumpers since 1990.
Consumers trust that the products
that they see on the store shelves are
safe. They think that products
wouldn’t be sold if they were so dan-
gerous.
We must take these dangerous prod-
ucts off the shelf now. No family
should have to experience the heart-
ache and the tragedy of losing a baby
in an unsafe sleep product.
The Safe Sleep for Babies Act of 2019
will save babies’ lives.
I want to thank Congressman
CÁRDENAS for his leadership, and I call
on all of my colleagues to support this
measure.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. LATTA. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
3172, the Safe Sleep for Babies Act.
H.R. 3172 addresses the risk of suffo-
cation that infants face related to in-
clined sleepers. It bans all products
with an inclined sleep surface greater
than 10 degrees to address tragic
deaths related to inclined sleepers. It
also addresses the risk of suffocation
infants face related to padded crib
bumpers.
I also want to thank the gentleman
from California (Mr. CÁRDENAS) for his
work on this bill.
I urge my colleagues to support this
measure, the Safe Sleep for Babies Act.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I am so proud of our
subcommittee, the Consumer Protec-
tion and Commerce Subcommittee in
the Energy and Commerce Committee,
for really saving lives.
If we pass this legislation, we will
stop hazards that are known to cause
deaths of children in their beds by par-
ents who have trusted that these prod-
ucts, because they are on the shelf, are
safe.
These bumpers and these inclined
sleepers are proven killers, so this leg-
islation will make these nurseries,
these places where we put our precious
babies to bed, much safer.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter from 20 national organizations
and more than 50 State and local orga-
nizations representing pediatricians
and consumers throughout the United
States, including the American Acad-
emy of Pediatrics, Consumer Federa-
tion of America, Consumer Reports,
Kids in Danger, among many others,
urging strong support from Members
for the Safe Sleep for Babies Act.
SEPTEMBER 11, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: As organizations
dedicated to children’s health and safety, we
write to express our strong support for three
bills as they move to the House floor. These
bills would improve protections against pre-
ventable sleep-related deaths, as well as in-
juries and deaths from preventable furniture
tip-overs. We urge you to support these bills
to protect children from injuries and deaths.
The Safe Sleep for Babies Act of 2019 (H.R.
3172) would ban infant inclined sleep prod-
ucts, such as the recently recalled Fisher-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE7.020 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10295
December 16, 2019
Price Rock ‘n Play Sleeper, which have been
linked to the deaths of at least 50 infants.
While there have been four recent recalls re-
lated to this product type, similar unsafe
products of this type remain on the market.
These products are deadly, and their design
is inherently unsafe and incompatible with
expert safe sleep recommendations, includ-
ing from the American Academy of Pediat-
rics. This legislation would help prevent
more families from experiencing the tragedy
of losing a child by banning the products’
manufacture, import, and sale.
The Safe Cribs Act of 2019 (H.R. 3170) would
ban crib bumper pads. Bumper pads have led
to dozens of infant suffocation deaths and do
not offer protection to babies. These prod-
ucts are also inconsistent with expert safe
sleep recommendations. Maryland, Ohio,
New York State, Chicago, Illinois, and
Watchung, New Jersey have taken action to
protect babies. If H.R. 3170 becomes law, all
babies in the Unites States would be simi-
larly protected. This legislation would help
prevent more families from experiencing the
tragedy of losing a child to crib bumper pads
by banning their manufacture, import, and
sale altogether.
The STURDY Act (H.R. 2211) would direct
the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commis-
sion (CPSC) to create a mandatory clothing
storage unit standard to help prevent fur-
niture tip-overs. According to the CPSC, one
child dies every ten days from a tip-over.
Stronger product testing and safety require-
ments could prevent these fatalities. This
bill is critically important because it would
establish a strong mandatory standard for
furniture stability. The STURDY Act would
require the CPSC to create a mandatory rule
that would: cover all clothing storage units,
including those 30 inches in height or short-
er; require testing to simulate the weights of
children up to 72 months old; require testing
measures to account for scenarios involving
carpeting, loaded drawers, multiple open
drawers, and the dynamic force of a climbing
child; mandate strong warning requirements;
and require the CPSC to issue the mandatory
standard within one year of enactment. To
protect children from furniture tip-overs, we
need a strong mandatory standard and the
STURDY Act includes those critically need-
ed provisions.
These bills offer a vital opportunity to pro-
tect children from preventable injuries and
deaths. We urge you to support these child
health and safety bills, and to vote ‘‘yes’’ on
them as they move to the House floor.
Sincerely,
NATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
American Academy of Pediatrics, Associa-
tion of Maternal & Child Health Programs,
Center for Justice & Democracy, Child Care
Aware of America, Child Injury Prevention
Alliance, Children’s Advocacy Institute, Con-
sumer Federation of America, Consumer Re-
ports, Cribs for Kids, Inc., First Focus Cam-
paign for Children, Keeping Babies Safe, Kids
In Danger, MomsRising, National Associa-
tion of Pediatric Nurse Practitioners, Na-
tional Consumers League, Parents for Win-
dow Blind Safety, Public Citizen, Safe Kids
Worldwide, Safe States Alliance, The Soci-
ety for Advancement of Violence and Injury
Research (SAVIR).
STATE AND LOCAL ORGANIZATIONS
Alaska Chapter of the American Academy
of Pediatrics, Alaska Public Interest Re-
search Group (AkPIRG), American Academy
of Pediatrics—Arizona Chapter, American
Academy of Pediatrics—California Chapter 3,
American Academy of Pediatrics—Hawaii
Chapter, American Academy of Pediatrics
Georgia Chapter, American Academy of Pe-
diatrics, New York Chapter 1, American
Academy of Pediatrics New York Chapter 2,
American Academy of Pediatrics, New York
Chapter 3, American Academy of Pediatrics,
Vermont Chapter, American Academy of Pe-
diatrics, Colorado Chapter, American Acad-
emy of Pediatrics, Orange County Chapter,
Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children’s Hospital of
Chicago, Arkansas Chapter, American Acad-
emy of Pediatrics California Chapter 1,
American Academy of Pediatrics, Chicago
Consumer Coalition, Children’s Health Alli-
ance of Wisconsin, Consumer Assistance
Council, Inc., Consumer Assistance Council,
Inc., DC Chapter of the American Academy
of Pediatrics, Delaware Chapter of the Amer-
ican Academy of Pediatrics, Empire State
Consumer Project.
Florida Chapter—American Academy of
Pediatrics, Idaho Chapter of the American
Academy of Pediatrics, Illinois Action for
Children, Illinois Chapter of the American
Academy of Pediatrics, Indiana Chapter of
the American Academy of Pediatrics, Iowa
Chapter of the American Academy of Pediat-
rics, Island Pediatrics of Honolulu, Kentucky
Chapter of the American Academy of Pediat-
rics, Louisiana Chapter of the American
Academy of Pediatrics, Maine Chapter,
American Academy of Pediatrics, Maryland
Chapter, American Academy of Pediatrics,
Massachusetts Chapter of the American
Academy of Pediatrics, Michigan Chapter
American Academy of Pediatrics, Minnesota
Chapter of the American Academy of Pediat-
rics, Missouri Chapter of the American Acad-
emy of Pediatrics, Nevada Chapter of the
American Academy of Pediatrics, New Jer-
sey Chapter, American Academy of Pediat-
rics, New Mexico Pediatric Society, North
Carolina Pediatric Society, Ohio Chapter,
American Academy of Pediatrics, OHSU/
Doernbecher Tom Sargent Safety Center,
Oklahoma Chapter of the American Acad-
emy of Pediatrics, Ounce of Prevention
Fund, Pennsylvania Chapter of the American
Academy of Pediatrics, South Dakota Chap-
ter of the American Academy of Pediatrics,
Sudden Infant Death Services of Illinois,
Inc., Tennessee Chapter of the American
Academy of Pediatrics, Virginia Chapter,
American Academy of Pediatrics, Virginia
Citizens Consumer Council, Virginia Citizens
Consumer Council, Wisconsin Chapter of the
American Academy of Pediatrics, Wyckoff
Hospital, Wyoming Chapter of the American
Academy of Pediatrics.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Mr. Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Illinois (Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3172, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to provide that in-
clined sleepers for infants and crib
bumpers shall be considered banned
hazardous products under section 8 of
the Consumer Product Safety Act, and
for other purposes.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
GRANT REPORTING EFFICIENCY
AND AGREEMENTS TRANS-
PARENCY ACT OF 2019
Mr. GOMEZ. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and concur in the
Senate amendment to the bill (H.R.
150) to modernize Federal grant report-
ing, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the Senate amendment is
as follows:
Senate amendment:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Grant Reporting Efficiency and Agree-
ments Transparency Act of 2019’’ or the
‘‘GREAT Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Purposes.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
Sec. 4. Data standards for grant reporting.
Sec. 5. Single Audit Act.
Sec. 6. Consolidation of assistance-related in-
formation; publication of public
information as open data.
Sec. 7. Evaluation of nonproprietary identifiers.
Sec. 8. Rule of construction.
Sec. 9. No additional funds authorized.
SEC. 2. PURPOSES.
The purposes of this Act are to—
(1) modernize reporting by recipients of Fed-
eral grants and cooperative agreements by cre-
ating and imposing data standards for the infor-
mation that those recipients are required by law
to report to the Federal Government;
(2) implement the recommendation by the Di-
rector of the Office of Management and Budget
contained in the report submitted under section
5(b)(6) of the Federal Funding Accountability
and Transparency Act of 2006 (31 U.S.C. 6101
note) relating to the development of a ‘‘com-
prehensive taxonomy of standard definitions for
core data elements required for managing Fed-
eral financial assistance awards’’;
(3) reduce burden and compliance costs of re-
cipients of Federal grants and cooperative
agreements by enabling technology solutions,
existing or yet to be developed, for use in both
the public and private sectors to better manage
the data that recipients already provide to the
Federal Government; and
(4) strengthen oversight and management of
Federal grants and cooperative agreements by
agencies by consolidating the collection and dis-
play of and access to open data that has been
standardized and, where appropriate, increas-
ing transparency to the public.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act, the terms ‘‘agency’’, ‘‘Director’’,
‘‘Federal award’’, and ‘‘Secretary’’ have the
meanings given those terms in section 6401 of
title 31, United States Code, as added by section
4(a) of this Act.
SEC. 4. DATA STANDARDS FOR GRANT REPORT-
ING.
(a) AMENDMENT.—Subtitle V of title 31, United
States Code, is amended by inserting after chap-
ter 63 the following:
‘‘CHAPTER 64—DATA STANDARDS FOR
GRANT REPORTING
‘‘Sec.
‘‘6401. Definitions.
‘‘6402. Data standards for grant reporting.
‘‘6403. Guidance applying data standards for
grant reporting.
‘‘6404. Agency requirements.
‘‘§ 6401. Definitions
‘‘In this chapter:
‘‘(1) AGENCY.—The term ‘agency’ has the
meaning given the term in section 552(f) of title
5.
‘‘(2) CORE DATA ELEMENTS.—The term ‘core
data elements’ means data elements relating to
financial management, administration, or man-
agement that—
‘‘(A) are not program-specific in nature or
program-specific outcome measures, as defined
in section 1115(h) of this title; and
‘‘(B) are required by agencies for all or the
vast majority of recipients of Federal awards for
purposes of reporting.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:54 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16DE7.025 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10296 December 16, 2019
‘‘(3) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘Director’ means
the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget.
‘‘(4) EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT.—The term ‘Ex-
ecutive department’ has the meaning given the
term in section 101 of title 5.
‘‘(5) FEDERAL AWARD.—The term ‘Federal
award’—
‘‘(A) means the transfer of anything of value
for a public purpose of support or stimulation
authorized by a law of the United States, in-
cluding financial assistance and Government fa-
cilities, services, and property;
‘‘(B) includes a grant, a subgrant, a coopera-
tive agreement, or any other transaction; and
‘‘(C) does not include a transaction or agree-
ment—
‘‘(i) that provides for conventional public in-
formation services or procurement of property or
services for the direct benefit or use of the Gov-
ernment; or
‘‘(ii) that provides only—
‘‘(I) direct Government cash assistance to an
individual;
‘‘(II) a subsidy;
‘‘(III) a loan;
‘‘(IV) a loan guarantee; or
‘‘(V) insurance.
‘‘(6) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’ means
the head of the standard-setting agency.
‘‘(7) STANDARD-SETTING AGENCY.—The term
‘standard-setting agency’ means the Executive
department designated under section 6402(a)(1).
‘‘(8) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means each
State of the United States, the District of Co-
lumbia, each commonwealth, territory, or pos-
session of the United States, and each federally
recognized Indian Tribe.
‘‘§ 6402. Data standards for grant reporting
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(1) DESIGNATION OF STANDARD-SETTING AGEN-
CY.—The Director shall designate the Executive
department that administers the greatest num-
ber of programs under which Federal awards
are issued in a calendar year as the standard-
setting agency.
‘‘(2) ESTABLISHMENT OF STANDARDS.—Not
later than 2 years after the date of enactment of
this chapter, the Secretary and the Director
shall establish Governmentwide data standards
for information reported by recipients of Federal
awards.
‘‘(3) DATA ELEMENTS.—The data standards es-
tablished under paragraph (2) shall include, at
a minimum—
‘‘(A) standard definitions for data elements
required for managing Federal awards; and
‘‘(B) unique identifiers for Federal awards
and recipients of Federal awards that can be
consistently applied Governmentwide.
‘‘(b) SCOPE.—The data standards established
under subsection (a)—
‘‘(1) shall include core data elements;
‘‘(2) may cover information required by law to
be reported to any agency by recipients of Fed-
eral awards, including audit-related informa-
tion reported under chapter 75 of this title; and
‘‘(3) may not be used by the Director or any
agency to require the collection of any data not
otherwise required under Federal law.
‘‘(c) REQUIREMENTS.—The data standards es-
tablished under subsection (a) shall, to the ex-
tent reasonable and practicable—
‘‘(1) render information reported by recipients
of Federal awards fully searchable and ma-
chine-readable;
‘‘(2) be nonproprietary;
‘‘(3) incorporate standards developed and
maintained by voluntary consensus standards
bodies;
‘‘(4) be consistent with and implement appli-
cable accounting and reporting principles; and
‘‘(5) incorporate the data standards estab-
lished under the Federal Funding Account-
ability and Transparency Act of 2006 (31 U.S.C.
6101 note).
‘‘(d) CONSULTATION.—In establishing the data
standards under subsection (a), the Secretary
and the Director shall consult with—
‘‘(1) the Secretary of the Treasury to ensure
that the data standards established under sub-
section (a) incorporate the data standards es-
tablished under the Federal Funding Account-
ability and Transparency Act of 2006 (31 U.S.C.
6101 note);
‘‘(2) the head of each agency that issues Fed-
eral awards;
‘‘(3) recipients of Federal awards and organi-
zations representing recipients of Federal
awards;
‘‘(4) private sector experts;
‘‘(5) members of the public, including privacy
experts, privacy advocates, auditors, and indus-
try stakeholders; and
‘‘(6) State and local governments.
‘‘§ 6403. Guidance applying data standards
for grant reporting
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this chapter—
‘‘(1) the Secretary and the Director shall
jointly issue guidance to all agencies directing
the agencies to apply the data standards estab-
lished under section 6402(a) to all applicable re-
porting by recipients of Federal awards; and
‘‘(2) the Director shall prescribe guidance ap-
plying the data standards established under sec-
tion 6402(a) to audit-related information re-
ported under chapter 75 of this title.
‘‘(b) GUIDANCE.—The guidance issued under
subsection (a) shall—
‘‘(1) to the extent reasonable and prac-
ticable—
‘‘(A) minimize the disruption of existing re-
porting practices of, and not increase the report-
ing burden on, agencies or recipients of Federal
awards; and
‘‘(B) explore opportunities to implement mod-
ern technologies in reporting relating to Federal
awards;
‘‘(2) allow the Director to permit exceptions
for classes of Federal awards, including excep-
tions for Federal awards granted to Indian
Tribes and Tribal organizations consistent with
the Indian Self-Determination and Education
Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), if the Di-
rector publishes a list of those exceptions and
submits the list to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs of the Sen-
ate and the Committee on Oversight and Reform
of the House of Representatives; and
‘‘(3) take into consideration the consultation
required under section 6402(d).
‘‘(c) UPDATING GUIDANCE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not less frequently than
once every 10 years, the Director shall update
the guidance issued under subsection (a).
‘‘(2) PROCEDURES.—In updating guidance
under paragraph (1), the Director shall, to the
maximum extent practicable, follow the proce-
dures for the development of the data standards
and guidance prescribed under this section and
section 6402.
‘‘§ 6404. Agency requirements
‘‘Not later than 1 year after the date on which
guidance is issued or updated under subsection
(b) or (c), respectively, of section 6403, the head
of each agency shall—
‘‘(1) ensure that all of the Federal awards
that the agency issues use data standards for all
future information collection requests; and
‘‘(2) amend existing information collection re-
quests under chapter 35 of title 44 (commonly
known as the ‘Paperwork Reduction Act’) to
comply with the data standards established
under section 6402 of this chapter, in accordance
with the guidance issued by the Secretary and
the Director under section 6403 of this chap-
ter.’’.
(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENT.—The table of chapters for subtitle V of
title 31, United States Code, is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to chapter 63 the
following:
‘‘64. Data standards for grant report-
ing ............................................... 6401’’.
SEC. 5. SINGLE AUDIT ACT.
(a) AMENDMENTS.—
(1) AUDIT REQUIREMENTS.—Section 7502(h) of
title 31, United States Code, is amended, in the
matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘in
an electronic form in accordance with the data
standards established under chapter 64 and’’
after ‘‘the reporting package,’’.
(2) REGULATIONS.—Section 7505 of title 31,
United States Code, is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(d) Such guidance shall require audit-related
information reported under this chapter to be
reported in an electronic form in accordance
with the data standards established under chap-
ter 64.’’.
(b) GUIDANCE.—Not later than 3 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Director
shall issue guidance requiring audit-related in-
formation reported under chapter 75 of title 31,
United States Code, to be reported in an elec-
tronic form consistent with the data standards
established under chapter 64 of that title, as
added by section 4(a) of this Act.
SEC. 6. CONSOLIDATION OF ASSISTANCE-RE-
LATED INFORMATION; PUBLICATION
OF PUBLIC INFORMATION AS OPEN
DATA.
(a) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.—Not later
than 5 years after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary and the Director shall, using
the data standards established under chapter 64
of title 31, United States Code, as added by sec-
tion 4(a) of this Act, enable the collection, pub-
lic display, and maintenance of Federal award
information as a Governmentwide data set, sub-
ject to reasonable restrictions established by the
Director to ensure protection of personally iden-
tifiable information and otherwise sensitive in-
formation.
(b) PUBLICATION OF INFORMATION.—The Sec-
retary and the Director shall require the publi-
cation of data reported by recipients of Federal
awards that is collected from all agencies on a
single public portal, which may be an existing
Governmentwide website, as determined appro-
priate by the Director.
(c) FOIA.—Nothing in this section shall re-
quire the disclosure to the public of information
that would be exempt from disclosure under sec-
tion 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Freedom of Information Act’’).
SEC. 7. EVALUATION OF NONPROPRIETARY IDEN-
TIFIERS.
(a) DETERMINATION REQUIRED.—The Director
and the Secretary shall determine whether to
use nonproprietary identifiers described in sec-
tion 6402(a)(3)(B) of title 31, United States Code,
as added by section 4(a) of this Act.
(b) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.—In making
the determination under subsection (a), the Di-
rector and the Secretary shall consider factors
such as accessibility and cost to recipients of
Federal awards, agencies that issue Federal
awards, private sector experts, and members of
the public, including privacy experts, privacy
advocates, transparency experts, and trans-
parency advocates.
(c) PUBLICATION AND REPORT ON DETERMINA-
TION.—Not later than the earlier of 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act or the date on
which the Director and the Secretary establish
data standards under section 6402(a)(2) of title
31, United States Code, as added by section 4(a)
of this Act, the Director and the Secretary shall
publish and submit to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs of the
Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form of the House of Representatives a report
explaining the reasoning for the determination
made under subsection (a).
SEC. 8. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act, or the amendments made
by this Act, shall be construed to require the
collection of data that is not otherwise required
under any Federal law, rule, or regulation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16DE7.014 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10297
December 16, 2019
SEC. 9. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS AUTHORIZED.
No additional funds are authorized to carry
out the requirements of this Act and the amend-
ments made by this Act. Such requirements shall
be carried out using amounts otherwise author-
ized.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. GOMEZ) and the gentle-
woman from North Carolina (Ms. FOXX)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. GOMEZ. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous materials on H.R. 150.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
b 1700
Mr. GOMEZ. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
The Grant Reporting Efficiency and
Agreements Transparency Act, intro-
duced by Representative VIRGINIA FOXX
and myself, would standardize report-
ing for recipients of Federal grants and
cooperative agreements.
Grant recipients often have to report
the same information in different ways
because Federal agencies do not use
the same forms or even the same terms
to describe required information, often
making it difficult for organizations
and businesses to apply for Federal
grants.
Under this bill, the Director of OMB
and the Secretary of Health and
Human Services would be required to
establish governmentwide data stand-
ards for grant reporting. This bill
would encourage OMB and HHS to
make the information grant recipients
report fully searchable and machine
readable. This would provide greater
transparency into the money spent on
grants because spending data would be
more usable.
This bill would require that data col-
lected from grant recipients be pub-
lished on a single public portal.
The bill we are considering today is a
version that the Senate has amended
and makes certain technical changes to
that bill. This is a good, commonsense
measure that will ease burdens on the
private sector and improve the effi-
ciency of government operations.
Mr. Speaker, I urge Members to sup-
port this bill, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
I rise in support of our bill, one that
now awaits a final vote in Congress be-
fore it heads to the President’s desk.
I thank Representative JIMMY GOMEZ
for helping author this piece of legisla-
tion, the Grant Reporting Efficiency
and Agreements Transparency Act, or
GREAT Act. Representative GOMEZ has
been a tremendous partner on this bi-
partisan, bicameral bill to create more
transparency, efficiency, and account-
ability in the Federal grant reporting
process, and I thank him for his hard
work.
Mr. Speaker, according to
USAspending.gov, in 2019, the Federal
Government awarded $764.9 billion in
grants funding to State agencies, local
and Tribal governments, agencies, non-
profits, universities, and other organi-
zations. Roughly translated, this
equates to the gross domestic product
of Switzerland—or more than the GDP
of every country outside the G20.
Within our Federal Government,
there are 26 agencies awarding Federal
grants, and all of them continue to rely
on outdated, burdensome, document-
based forms to collect and track grant
dollars. Society has moved into a new
age of information and technology, and
it is time that our government follow
suit.
The GREAT Act represents bipar-
tisan legislation to modernize the Fed-
eral grant reporting process. It would
do so by mandating a standardized data
structure for information that recipi-
ents report to Federal agencies. Unless
the reporting requirements for Federal
grants are searchable, the auditing
process will continue to yield waste
and inefficiency at best and, poten-
tially, fraud and abuse at worst.
Adopting a governmentwide open
data structure for all the information
grantees report will alleviate compli-
ance burden, provide instant insights
for grantor agencies and Congress, and
enable easy access to data for over-
sight, analytics, and program evalua-
tion.
Digitizing and, therefore, automating
the reporting process would have a
twofold effect:
First, it would allow greater scrutiny
of how the money is being spent.
Second, it allows grantees to maxi-
mize every dollar they receive from the
government to ensure it goes back into
communities, supporting local busi-
nesses, organizations, and education.
Lastly, the GREAT Act has received
a broad breadth of support from an
array of good government groups and
associations within the grant recipient
community.
The coalition endorsing the GREAT
Act includes the Association of Gov-
ernment Accountants, the Bipartisan
Policy Center, the American Library
Association, the Data Coalition, the
Grant Professionals Association, the
Native American Finance Officers As-
sociation, and the Scholarly Publishing
and Academic Resources Coalition.
In order to fix the way Federal
grants are reported, we must move
from a document-centric reporting sys-
tem to a data superhighway. I urge my
colleagues in the House and the Senate
to support the GREAT Act and bring
grant reporting into the 21st century.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. GOMEZ. Mr. Speaker, I have no
more speakers on my side.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
Mr. Speaker, our current post-award
grant reporting process is a cum-
bersome, document-based process. It
burdens administrators and grant re-
cipients. It hinders agencies in their
ability to manage grant programs and
conduct performance evaluations.
These problems are exacerbated for
those conducting governmentwide and
congressional oversight work, but that
comes to an end today if we pass this
bill. As I said earlier, this week’s vote
on the GREAT Act is the legislation’s
final stop in Congress before it heads to
the President’s desk.
In addition to thanking Representa-
tive GOMEZ, I thank Senators
LANKFORD and PETERS and their staffs
for their tireless work this Congress.
Put simply, we could not have gotten
this important legislation through
Congress without their sponsorship of
the Senate companion bill and their
advocacy throughout this process.
Further, I thank my House bill’s
original cosponsors for their work on
this bipartisan achievement: Congress-
man GOMEZ, Congressman WALKER,
Congressman QUIGLEY, Congressman
DESJARLAIS, Congresswoman ROBIN
KELLY, Congressman PALMER, and Con-
gressman KILMER.
Again, Mr. Speaker, the fragmented,
decentralized, and redundant grant re-
porting structure ends this week.
Instead, we usher in a new age, one
that moves this government spending
from Document Street to a data super-
highway with the passage of this legis-
lation. When we do, it will mark a
great moment not just for our Nation’s
grant recipients and those working for
the common good but, ultimately, the
American taxpayer.
The transparency, accountability,
and efficiencies that this legislation is
bound to produce are ultimately in-
tended for them. I proudly ask that my
colleagues support this bipartisan leg-
islation, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. GOMEZ. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman from North Carolina,
Representative FOXX, for her partner-
ship on this legislation.
I know, during such a historic week
on a variety of fronts, this bill might
be little noticed 20, 30, or 40 years from
now, but what people should notice is
that a progressive Democrat from Los
Angeles and a conservative Member
from North Carolina could spot a prob-
lem that was impacting our constitu-
ents, our businesses, our nonprofits,
and that we saw a problem that needed
a solution. It might not always be the
perfect solution, but it is definitely a
great solution. What we are showing is
that we can work, once again, for the
American people.
I thank the gentlewoman for her ex-
ample, and I know that, in the future,
we can continue to work together on
even bigger and more meaningful legis-
lation. Let’s let this be a reminder that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE7.014 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10298 December 16, 2019
our country continues to work on be-
half of everyone.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
GOMEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and concur in the Senate amend-
ment to the bill, H.R. 150.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the Senate
amendment was concurred in.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SPOKANE TRIBE OF INDIANS OF
THE SPOKANE RESERVATION EQ-
UITABLE COMPENSATION ACT
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(S. 216) to provide for equitable com-
pensation to the Spokane Tribe of Indi-
ans of the Spokane Reservation for the
use of tribal land for the production of
hydropower by the Grand Coulee Dam,
and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 216
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Spokane
Tribe of Indians of the Spokane Reservation
Equitable Compensation Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that—
(1) from 1927 to 1931, at the direction of
Congress, the Corps of Engineers inves-
tigated the Columbia River and its tribu-
taries to determine sites at which power
could be produced at low cost;
(2) under section 10(e) of the Federal Power
Act (16 U.S.C. 803(e)), when licenses are
issued involving tribal land within an Indian
reservation, a reasonable annual charge shall
be fixed for the use of the land, subject to
the approval of the Indian tribe having juris-
diction over the land;
(3) in August 1933, the Columbia Basin
Commission, an agency of the State of Wash-
ington, received a preliminary permit from
the Federal Power Commission for water
power development at the Grand Coulee site;
(4) had the Columbia Basin Commission or
a private entity developed the site, the Spo-
kane Tribe would have been entitled to a
reasonable annual charge for the use of the
land of the Spokane Tribe;
(5) in the mid-1930s, the Federal Govern-
ment, which is not subject to licensing under
the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 792 et
seq.)—
(A) federalized the Grand Coulee Dam
project; and
(B) began construction of the Grand Coulee
Dam;
(6) when the Grand Coulee Dam project was
federalized, the Federal Government recog-
nized that—
(A) development of the project affected the
interests of the Spokane Tribe and the Con-
federated Tribes of the Colville Reservation;
and
(B) it would be appropriate for the Spokane
and Colville Tribes to receive a share of rev-
enue from the disposition of power produced
at Grand Coulee Dam;
(7) in the Act of June 29, 1940 (16 U.S.C. 835d
et seq.), Congress—
(A) granted to the United States—
(i) in aid of the construction, operation,
and maintenance of the Columbia Basin
Project, all the right, title, and interest of
the Spokane Tribe and Colville Tribes in and
to the tribal and allotted land within the
Spokane and Colville Reservations, as des-
ignated by the Secretary of the Interior from
time to time; and
(ii) other interests in that land as required
and as designated by the Secretary for cer-
tain construction activities undertaken in
connection with the project; and
(B) provided that compensation for the
land and other interests was to be deter-
mined by the Secretary in such amounts as
the Secretary determined to be just and eq-
uitable;
(8) pursuant to that Act, the Secretary
paid—
(A) to the Spokane Tribe, $4,700; and
(B) to the Confederated Tribes of the
Colville Reservation, $63,000;
(9) in 1994, following litigation under the
Act of August 13, 1946 (commonly known as
the ‘‘Indian Claims Commission Act’’ (60
Stat. 1049, chapter 959; former 25 U.S.C. 70 et
seq.)), Congress ratified the Colville Settle-
ment Agreement, which required—
(A) for past use of the land of the Colville
Tribes, a payment of $53,000,000; and
(B) for continued use of the land of the
Colville Tribes, annual payments of
$15,250,000, adjusted annually based on reve-
nues from the sale of electric power from the
Grand Coulee Dam project and transmission
of that power by the Bonneville Power Ad-
ministration;
(10) the Spokane Tribe, having suffered
harm similar to that suffered by the Colville
Tribes, did not file a claim within the 5-year
statute of limitations under the Indian
Claims Commission Act;
(11) neither the Colville Tribes nor the Spo-
kane Tribe filed claims for compensation for
use of the land of the respective tribes with
the Commission prior to August 13, 1951, but
both tribes filed unrelated land claims prior
to August 13, 1951;
(12) in 1976, over objections by the United
States, the Colville Tribes were successful in
amending the 1951 Claims Commission land
claims to add the Grand Coulee claim of the
Colville Tribes;
(13) the Spokane Tribe had no such claim
to amend, having settled the Claims Com-
mission land claims of the Spokane Tribe
with the United States in 1967;
(14) the Spokane Tribe has suffered signifi-
cant harm from the construction and oper-
ation of Grand Coulee Dam;
(15) Spokane tribal acreage taken by the
United States for the construction of Grand
Coulee Dam equaled approximately 39 per-
cent of Colville tribal acreage taken for con-
struction of the dam;
(16) the payments and delegation made
pursuant to this Act constitute fair and eq-
uitable compensation for the past and con-
tinued use of Spokane tribal land for the pro-
duction of hydropower at Grand Coulee Dam;
and
(17) by vote of the Spokane tribal member-
ship, the Spokane Tribe has resolved that
the payments and delegation made pursuant
to this Act constitute fair and equitable
compensation for the past and continued use
of Spokane tribal land for the production of
hydropower at Grand Coulee Dam.
SEC. 3. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this Act is to provide fair
and equitable compensation to the Spokane
Tribe for the use of the land of the Spokane
Tribe for the generation of hydropower by
the Grand Coulee Dam.
SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) ADMINISTRATOR.—The term ‘‘Adminis-
trator’’ means the Administrator of the Bon-
neville Power Administration or the head of
any successor agency, corporation, or entity
that markets power produced at Grand Cou-
lee Dam.
(2) COLVILLE SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT.—The
term ‘‘Colville Settlement Agreement’’
means the Settlement Agreement entered
into between the United States and the
Colville Tribes, signed by the United States
on April 21, 1994, and by the Colville Tribes
on April 16, 1994, to settle the claims of the
Colville Tribes in Docket 181–D of the Indian
Claims Commission, which docket was trans-
ferred to the United States Court of Federal
Claims.
(3) COLVILLE TRIBES.—The term ‘‘Colville
Tribes’’ means the Confederated Tribes of
the Colville Reservation.
(4) COMPUTED ANNUAL PAYMENT.—The term
‘‘Computed Annual Payment’’ means the
payment calculated under paragraph 2.b. of
the Colville Settlement Agreement, without
regard to any increase or decrease in the
payment under section 2.d. of the agreement.
(5) CONFEDERATED TRIBES ACT.—The term
‘‘Confederated Tribes Act’’ means the Con-
federated Tribes of the Colville Reservation
Grand Coulee Dam Settlement Act (Public
Law 103–436; 108 Stat. 4577).
(6) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(7) SPOKANE BUSINESS COUNCIL.—The term
‘‘Spokane Business Council’’ means the gov-
erning body of the Spokane Tribe under the
constitution of the Spokane Tribe.
(8) SPOKANE TRIBE.—The term ‘‘Spokane
Tribe’’ means the Spokane Tribe of Indians
of the Spokane Reservation, Washington.
SEC. 5. PAYMENTS BY ADMINISTRATOR.
(a) INITIAL PAYMENT.—On March 1, 2022, the
Administrator shall pay to the Spokane
Tribe an amount equal to 25 percent of the
Computed Annual Payment for fiscal year
2021.
(b) SUBSEQUENT PAYMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than March 1,
2023, and March 1 of each year thereafter
through March 1, 2029, the Administrator
shall pay the Spokane Tribe an amount
equal to 25 percent of the Computed Annual
Payment for the preceding fiscal year.
(2) MARCH 1, 2030, AND SUBSEQUENT YEARS.—
Not later than March 1, 2030, and March 1 of
each year thereafter, the Administrator
shall pay the Spokane Tribe an amount
equal to 32 percent of the Computed Annual
Payment for the preceding fiscal year.
SEC. 6. TREATMENT AFTER AMOUNTS ARE PAID.
(a) USE OF PAYMENTS.—Payments made to
the Spokane Business Council or Spokane
Tribe under section 5 may be used or in-
vested by the Spokane Business Council in
the same manner and for the same purposes
as other Spokane Tribe governmental
amounts.
(b) NO TRUST RESPONSIBILITY OF THE SEC-
RETARY.—Neither the Secretary nor the Ad-
ministrator shall have any trust responsi-
bility for the investment, supervision, ad-
ministration, or expenditure of any amounts
after the date on which the funds are paid to
the Spokane Business Council or Spokane
Tribe under section 5.
(c) TREATMENT OF FUNDS FOR CERTAIN PUR-
POSES.—The payments of all amounts to the
Spokane Business Council and Spokane
Tribe under section 5, and the interest and
income generated by those amounts, shall be
treated in the same manner as payments
under section 6 of the Saginaw Chippewa In-
dian Tribe of Michigan Distribution of Judg-
ment Funds Act (100 Stat. 677).
(d) TRIBAL AUDIT.—After the date on which
amounts are paid to the Spokane Business
Council or Spokane Tribe under section 5,
the amounts shall—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.050 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10299
December 16, 2019
(1) constitute Spokane Tribe governmental
amounts; and
(2) be subject to an annual tribal govern-
ment audit.
SEC. 7. REPAYMENT CREDIT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall
deduct from the interest payable to the Sec-
retary of the Treasury from net proceeds (as
defined in section 13 of the Federal Columbia
River Transmission System Act (16 U.S.C.
838k))—
(1) in fiscal year 2030, $2,700,000; and
(2) in each subsequent fiscal year in which
the Administrator makes a payment under
section 5, $2,700,000.
(b) CREDITING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraphs (2) and (3), each deduction made
under this section for the fiscal year shall
be—
(A) a credit to the interest payments oth-
erwise payable by the Administrator to the
Secretary of the Treasury during the fiscal
year in which the deduction is made; and
(B) allocated pro rata to all interest pay-
ments on debt associated with the genera-
tion function of the Federal Columbia River
Power System that are due during the fiscal
year.
(2) DEDUCTION GREATER THAN AMOUNT OF IN-
TEREST.—If, in an applicable fiscal year
under paragraph (1), the deduction is greater
than the amount of interest due on debt as-
sociated with the generation function for the
fiscal year, the amount of the deduction that
exceeds the interest due on debt associated
with the generation function shall be allo-
cated pro rata to all other interest payments
due during the fiscal year.
(3) CREDIT.—To the extent that a deduction
exceeds the total amount of interest de-
scribed in paragraphs (1) and (2), the deduc-
tion shall be applied as a credit against any
other payments that the Administrator
makes to the Secretary of the Treasury.
SEC. 8. EXTINGUISHMENT OF CLAIMS.
On the date that payment under section
5(a) is made to the Spokane Tribe, all mone-
tary claims that the Spokane Tribe has or
may have against the United States to a fair
share of the annual hydropower revenues
generated by the Grand Coulee Dam project
for the past and continued use of land of the
Spokane Tribe for the production of hydro-
power at Grand Coulee Dam shall be extin-
guished.
SEC. 9. ADMINISTRATION.
Nothing in this Act establishes any prece-
dent or is binding on the Southwestern
Power Administration, Western Area Power
Administration, or Southeastern Power Ad-
ministration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New Mexico (Ms. HAALAND) and the
gentleman from Arkansas (Mr.
WESTERMAN) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Mexico.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New Mexico?
There was no objection.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, S. 216, the Spokane
Tribe of Indians of the Spokane Res-
ervation Equitable Compensation Act,
will finally compensate the Spokane
Tribe of Indians for the flooding of
their Tribal lands that occurred with
the construction of the Grand Coulee
Dam more than 75 years ago.
Located in Washington State, the
Grand Coulee Dam was built in the
1930s and 1940s. The reservoir it created
flooded approximately 2,500 acres of the
Spokane Indian Reservation. These
lands held great economic, cultural,
and spiritual significance for the Spo-
kane Tribal people and included the
Tribe’s historic salmon fishing sites.
Around the time of the dam’s com-
pletion, the Indian Claims Commission
Act of 1946 was enacted, which gave
Tribal nations 5 years to file all rel-
evant land claims against the Federal
Government. Although the Spokane
Tribe filed a claim before this deadline,
which was settled in 1967, for around
$4,700, lands related to the dam were
not included.
The end result is that, more than 75
years later, the Spokane Tribe has still
not received just compensation for the
seizure and destruction of their lands.
This has severely impacted the ability
of the Tribal government to provide for
their people.
This is also an issue of fairness and
equity. The only other Tribe impacted
by the construction of the Grand Cou-
lee Dam, the Confederated Tribes of
the Colville Reservation, successfully
secured a settlement with the United
States in 1994 and have been receiving
compensation ever since.
S. 216 will require the Bonneville
Power Administration to make annual
payments to the Tribe starting in 2022
to match the company’s electricity
sales, much in the same way the
Colville Tribes are compensated.
The legislation has the support of the
surrounding counties and local enti-
ties.
Additionally, BPA stated, at a recent
subcommittee hearing on the bill, that
the annual payments to the Tribe ‘‘will
not result in perceptible rate impacts
to its utility customers.’’
The Grand Coulee Dam and the en-
ergy it produces has been a financial
boon to the United States and the citi-
zens of the Northwest. It is now time to
make whole the Spokane Tribe for
their sacrifice.
I thank Senator CANTWELL for her
tireless work on this issue on behalf of
the Spokane Tribal people, and I urge
my colleagues to support this legisla-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
During debate on this legislation in
committee, a number of our Members
expressed concerns on the merits of the
settlement achieved under S. 216. Ulti-
mately, this bill authorizes a settle-
ment to the Spokane Tribe for damages
as a result of the construction of the
Grand Coulee Dam.
As stated in the findings section of
the legislation, after construction of
the dam, the Federal Government rec-
ognized that the Colville and Spokane
Tribes should be compensated for their
losses. Negotiations commenced, and
settlements were reached between the
Federal Government and both Tribes
independently. No further claims were
brought forward by the Spokane Tribe,
and, as a result, the Tribe’s claims
were deemed fully settled.
Now, nearly 50 years later, Congress
is granting a settlement to the Tribe
that will entitle them to a share of rev-
enues from hydropower sales by the
Bonneville Power Administration in
perpetuity.
The main concern raised by our
Members was the potential of this bill
as precedence to resettle claims be-
tween an entity and the Federal Gov-
ernment that have already been
deemed settled.
In addition, concerns have been
raised that this legislation leaves the
door open to off-reservation gambling.
b 1715
During the last 18 years, most House-
passed bills addressing Tribal land use
issues have contained express restric-
tions on off-reservation gambling. S.
216 seems to be one of the few that does
not.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I have
no further requests for time and would
inquire whether my colleague has any
remaining speakers on his side.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I do
have one more.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from
Colorado (Mr. LAMBORN).
Mr. LAMBORN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, this is an important
bill, but there is something even much
more important this week in Congress.
In 2012, President Obama was caught
on camera giving Russia’s then-Presi-
dent Medvedev a secret message to be
given to his soon-to-be successor,
Vladimir Putin. President Obama said:
‘‘On all these issues, but particularly
missile defense, this can be solved, but
it is important for him to give me
space. This is my last election. After
my election, I have more flexibility.’’
In other words, President Obama’s
secret promise to reward Russia with
flexibility on missile defense and other
issues, to the detriment of U.S. na-
tional security, was if the Russians did
not stir up trouble during his Presi-
dential campaign.
This exchange between President
Obama and Russian President
Medvedev is an actual quid pro quo.
President Obama’s offer was accepted
and was acted upon by the Russians.
Both sides exchanged something of
value.
President Obama’s quid pro quo led
to specific actions by his administra-
tion. He was weak against Russia in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE7.027 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10300 December 16, 2019
many respects, he broke missile de-
fense agreements with our beleaguered
Eastern European allies, he tried to
stop or delay nuclear parity with Rus-
sia, and he repeatedly blocked at-
tempts by Republicans to provide le-
thal aid to Ukraine.
By the way, under President Trump,
we are finally strong against Russia.
We are now building a more robust
NATO, enhancing our missile defense
agreements and troop presence in East-
ern Europe, and finally sending the le-
thal aid to Ukraine that President
Obama had refused to send.
But President Obama engaged in an
actual quid pro quo with Russia to give
him political advantage. It came at the
expense of Ukraine, an ally. It sounds a
lot like what the Democrats are accus-
ing President Trump of. Why were the
Democrats silent back then?
These two scenarios, that and the
present-day impeachment proceedings,
sound similar, but there is at least one
big difference: the alleged quid pro quo
between Presidents Trump and
Zelensky never translated into even an
understanding by the Ukrainians that
they had to do something. In fact, they
never did anything, such as announce a
corruption investigation of the Bidens,
which I believe was a situation crying
out for an investigation.
When you come right down to it, the
real abuse of power was by President
Obama. Was it a horrible judgment call
to trade favors with the Russians? Yes.
Was it impeachable? Republicans who
were in control of the House then did
not think so.
That is the difference between Demo-
crats and Republicans. Republicans
may not always like what a President
of the other party does, but we don’t
elevate policy differences into a nu-
clear war involving impeachment, a
constitutional remedy that should be
reserved for things like criminal acts
and treason.
This week’s impeachment pro-
ceedings are nothing more than a polit-
ical vendetta by the Democrats
masquerading as a constitutional rem-
edy. Let’s stop this charade now and
kill this impeachment.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I would
just like to remind the House that this
is an important bill that would bring
equity to the Spokane Tribe of Indians,
and I urge my colleagues to support
the legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New Mexico
(Ms. HAALAND) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, S. 216.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
MIRACLE MOUNTAIN DESIGNATION
ACT
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 722) to designate a mountain in
the State of Utah as ‘‘Miracle Moun-
tain’’.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 722
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Miracle
Mountain Designation Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds as follows:
(1) On September 13, 2018, the Bald Moun-
tain Fire burned nearly 20,000 acres of land
in Utah.
(2) Elk Ridge City, located in Utah County,
was nearly the victim of this fire.
(3) Suddenly, the fire halted its progression
and, instead of burning into Elk Ridge City,
stayed behind the mountain and spared the
city.
(4) Congress, in acknowledgment of this
event, believes this mountain holds special
significance to the residents of Elk Ridge
City and surrounding communities.
(5) The presently unnamed peak has been
referred to as ‘‘Miracle Mountain’’ by many
residents since the fire that nearly went into
Elk Ridge City.
SEC. 3. MIRACLE MOUNTAIN.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The mountain in the
State of Utah, located at 39° 59′ 02N, 111° 40′
12W, shall be known and designated as ‘‘Mir-
acle Mountain’’.
(b) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, record, or other
paper of the United States to the mountain
described in subsection (a) shall be consid-
ered to be a reference to ‘‘Miracle Moun-
tain’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New Mexico (Ms. HAALAND) and the
gentleman from Arkansas (Mr.
WESTERMAN) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Mexico.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New Mexico?
There was no objection.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 722, introduced by
Representative CURTIS, would des-
ignate an unnamed peak near Elk
Ridge City, Utah, as Miracle Mountain.
On August 24, 2018, lightning sparked
the 20,000-acre Bald Mountain fire,
which expanded rapidly and eventually
merged with the Pole Creek fire,
threatening the cities of Elk Ridge and
Woodland Hills.
Fortunately, on September 13, the
fire suddenly halted behind the moun-
tain, saving the communities of Elk
Ridge and Woodland Hills.
To commemorate the peak that
saved their community, many resi-
dents of Elk Ridge City have adopted
the name Miracle Mountain.
H.R. 722 would simply designate this
peak as Miracle Mountain to serve as a
lasting tribute to the mountain and
the brave firefighters that protected
Elk Ridge City and Woodland Hills
from the ravaging Bald Mountain fire.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my col-
league, Representative CURTIS, for
championing this legislation and urge
my colleagues to support H.R. 722.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself as much time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 722, the Miracle Mountain Des-
ignation Act. This bill would designate
a mountain near Elk Ridge, Utah, as
Miracle Mountain to recognize the
providential events that took place in
early September 2018 during the Pole
Creek and Bald Mountain fires.
These massive wildfires burned
roughly 120,000 acres in Utah. The fires
and their smoke were visible to the
majority of Utah’s residents in the
greater Salt Lake City area.
Two northern Utah cities located in
Congressman CURTIS’ district, Elk
Ridge and Woodland Hills, narrowly es-
caped these fires barreling towards
their communities. Evacuations were
ordered for these communities, and
families were forced to abandon their
homes and pray for the best. Swift
winds and severe drought conditions
fueled the fire which was on a direct
path towards these small towns.
On September 13, a miracle happened.
As the fire reached the base of a lone
mountain standing between the fire
and Elk Ridge, the winds inexplicably
shifted, and the fires were thrown off
their deadly path. These communities
were miraculously spared.
Since the fire, the unnamed peak has
been referred to as Miracle Mountain
by many Utahns.
Two weeks ago, Elk Ridge Mayor Ty
Ellis testified before the Natural Re-
sources Committee about the miracle
he had witnessed. At the hearing,
Mayor Ellis stated: ‘‘As I drove to-
wards that mountain, I said to myself,
it truly is a miracle that that moun-
tain remains green, and behind it is
nothing but ash.’’
Mayor Ellis reached out to Congress-
man CURTIS soon after the fire had
been contained to see if the peak could
be named ‘‘Miracle Mountain.’’
We are all grateful to the courageous
Federal, State, and local firefighters
who worked tirelessly to battle the
blaze.
Naming the peak Miracle Mountain
is a fitting acknowledgement of divine
intervention and a gesture of gratitude
to all those who came together to save
these towns and help those who were
forced to evacuate.
Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of this
measure, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.053 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10301
December 16, 2019
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I have
no further requests for time and would
inquire whether my colleague has any
remaining speakers on his side.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
have one speaker.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from
Colorado (Mr. LAMBORN).
Mr. LAMBORN. Mr. Speaker, this is
an important bill. I support it; I urge
its adoption.
I have to take this opportunity to ad-
dress another vital issue that we are
addressing this week in Congress, but
we are not having any time to debate,
practically speaking. All special orders
have been shut down, all 1 minutes
have been shut down, practically
speaking, so I am going to take this
moment and address the impeachment
issue, which we will be voting on as
early as Wednesday.
I rise to highlight the work of the
late President John Fitzgerald Ken-
nedy, who wrote the book, ‘‘Profiles in
Courage.’’
In this book, then-Senator Kennedy
highlighted six Senators who each took
a stand for what they knew was right,
risking their political futures in favor
of their convictions. One of these Sen-
ators was Kansas Senator Edmund
Ross, who courageously cast the decid-
ing vote against his own political party
and against the impeachment of Presi-
dent Andrew Johnson despite enormous
pressure from his colleagues in Con-
gress.
Senator Ross was a brilliant fresh-
man senator with enormous potential,
yet he sacrificed it all with one vote in
1868.
During the process, an onlooker over-
heard him say that he had no sym-
pathy for President Johnson but want-
ed to see a fair trial.
Ross’ reverence for the Constitution
and the institutions of American gov-
ernment superseded the wishes of his
own political party.
Today, my friends and colleagues
across the aisle would do well to learn
from Senator Ross, who put principle
and a strong belief in the Constitution
over the fads and crazes of the politics
of the moment. His reasoning echoes
loudly today.
If a President could be forced out of
office by insufficient evidence that was
generated from partisan disagreement,
the Presidency would then be under the
control of whatever congressional fac-
tion held sway.
The American people clearly decided
in 2016 that Donald Trump is our Presi-
dent.
I fear that, throughout this impeach-
ment process, my colleagues across the
aisle will choose to cast aside the Con-
stitution and the will of the American
people as they carry out this
hyperpartisan impeachment.
History will long remember those
who stood and courageously defended
the Constitution, just as Senator Ross
did on that fateful day as he forged his
profile in courage by bucking his own
political party.
I wonder if my colleagues understand
the legacy they are forging. My ques-
tion for them simply is this: Who of
you will choose to be a profile in cour-
age?
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I just
once more want to remind this House
how important this measure is, this
bill that my colleague, Mr. CURTIS, has
put forth, and I urge my colleagues to
support the legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New Mexico
(Ms. HAALAND) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 722.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
COLUMBIA RIVER IN-LIEU AND
TREATY FISHING ACCESS SITES
IMPROVEMENT ACT
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(S. 50) to authorize the Secretary of the
Interior to assess sanitation and safety
conditions at Bureau of Indian Affairs
facilities that were constructed to pro-
vide affected Columbia River Treaty
tribes access to traditional fishing
grounds and expend funds on construc-
tion of facilities and structures to im-
prove those conditions, and for other
purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 50
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Columbia
River In-Lieu and Treaty Fishing Access
Sites Improvement Act’’.
SEC. 2. SANITATION AND SAFETY CONDITIONS AT
CERTAIN BUREAU OF INDIAN AF-
FAIRS FACILITIES.
(a) ASSESSMENT OF CONDITIONS.—The Sec-
retary of the Interior, acting through the
Bureau of Indian Affairs, in consultation
with the affected Columbia River Treaty
tribes, may assess current sanitation and
safety conditions on lands held by the United
States for the benefit of the affected Colum-
bia River Treaty tribes, including all perma-
nent Federal structures and improvements
on those lands, that were set aside to provide
affected Columbia River Treaty tribes access
to traditional fishing grounds—
(1) in accordance with the Act of March 2,
1945 (59 Stat. 10, chapter 19) (commonly
known as the ‘‘River and Harbor Act of
1945’’); or
(2) in accordance with title IV of Public
Law 100–581 (102 Stat. 2944).
(b) EXCLUSIVE AUTHORIZATION; CON-
TRACTS.—The Secretary of the Interior, act-
ing through the Bureau of Indian Affairs—
(1) subject to paragraph (2)(B), shall be the
only Federal agency authorized to carry out
the activities described in this section; and
(2) may delegate the authority to carry out
activities described in paragraphs (1) and (2)
of subsection (d)—
(A) through one or more contracts entered
into with an Indian Tribe or Tribal organiza-
tion under the Indian Self-Determination
and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.); or
(B) to include other Federal agencies that
have relevant expertise.
(c) DEFINITION OF AFFECTED COLUMBIA
RIVER TREATY TRIBES.—In this section, the
term ‘‘affected Columbia River Treaty
tribes’’ means the Nez Perce Tribe, the Con-
federated Tribes of Umatilla Indian Reserva-
tion, the Confederated Tribes of the Warm
Springs Reservation of Oregon, and the Con-
federated Tribes and Bands of the Yakama
Nation.
(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
the Secretary of the Interior $11,000,000 for
the period of fiscal years 2020 through 2025,
to remain available until expended—
(1) for improvements to existing structures
and infrastructure to improve sanitation and
safety conditions assessed under subsection
(a); and
(2) to improve access to electricity, sewer,
and water infrastructure, where feasible, to
reflect needs for sanitary and safe use of fa-
cilities referred to in subsection (a).
SEC. 3. STUDY OF ASSESSMENT AND IMPROVE-
MENT ACTIVITIES.
The Comptroller General of the United
States, in consultation with the Committee
on Indian Affairs of the Senate, shall—
(1) conduct a study to evaluate whether
the sanitation and safety conditions on lands
held by the United States for the benefit of
the affected Columbia River Treaty tribes
(as defined in section 2(c)) have improved as
a result of the activities authorized in sec-
tion 2; and
(2) prepare and submit to the Committee
on Indian Affairs of the Senate and the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives a report containing the re-
sults of that study.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New Mexico (Ms. HAALAND) and the
gentleman from Arkansas (Mr.
WESTERMAN) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Mexico.
b 1730
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New Mexico?
There was no objection.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, S. 50 authorizes the Bu-
reau of Indian Affairs, the BIA, to as-
sess sanitation and safety conditions
on lands that were set aside to provide
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:35 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.055 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10302 December 16, 2019
Columbia River Treaty Tribes access to
their traditional fishing grounds. The
bill also authorizes the BIA to enter
into contracts with Tribes or Tribal or-
ganizations to improve the conditions
at those sites.
The Columbia River Treaty Tribes,
through a series of treaties in 1855, es-
tablished their continued access to tra-
ditional fishing grounds and to certain
fishing facilities on the Columbia
River. However, starting in the 1930s,
construction of the dams of the Colum-
bia River power system resulted in the
flooding and destruction of Tribal vil-
lages, homes, and traditional fishing
sites, severely impacting the ability of
the Tribes to exercise their treaty
rights.
The Tribes and their citizens have
never been fully compensated for these
losses.
Starting in 1939, the Federal Govern-
ment acquired and developed small
parcels of land to serve as in-lieu and
treaty fishing access sites, providing
members of the Columbia River Treaty
Tribes access and a way to exercise
their rights to fish in the Columbia
River and to reside at their traditional
fishing places and stations.
Congress also enacted the Columbia
River Treaty Fishing Access Sites
project in 1988, which authorized im-
provements for certain fishing facili-
ties and directed the Army Corps of
Engineers to acquire new lands to pro-
vide unencumbered river access for
Tribal members.
Today, there are 31 Tribal fishing
sites located along the Columbia River,
27 of which are managed by the BIA.
The sites were intended to be used pri-
marily for in-season fishing and some
temporary camping. However, out of
both a need for housing and a desire to
be closer to their own traditional fish-
ing areas, many Tribal members now
use these areas as permanent resi-
dences.
These sites were not designed for and
cannot sustainably accommodate this
use. In fact, many people at these sites
are living in extremely distressed, un-
safe, and unsanitary conditions as a di-
rect result of decades of unmet obliga-
tions by the BIA.
S. 50 will allow much-needed im-
provements to the conditions at these
sites.
I thank Senator MERKLEY for his
work on moving this bill through the
Senate. I also thank our colleague from
Oregon, Representative BLUMENAUER,
for being the champion in the House on
this issue and for tirelessly advocating
for the Columbia River Treaty Tribes.
Mr. Speaker, I urge quick adoption of
this legislation, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, this bill will help en-
sure that certain Columbia River
Tribes have meaningful access to usual
and accustomed fishing areas and re-
lated fishing facilities as established
by treaty.
Due to the construction of dams in
the 1930s and 1950s along the Columbia
River, the lands of these Tribes were
flooded. Congress authorized the Fed-
eral Government to acquire and replace
lost Tribal fishing areas along the
river, including the construction of im-
provements. However, in recent years,
there have been continued reports that
the conditions at these fishing sites
have deteriorated significantly.
S. 50 directs the Department of the
Interior to assess current sanitation
and safety conditions on lands that
were set aside to provide affected Co-
lumbia River Treaty Tribes access to
traditional fishing grounds. The Bu-
reau of Indian Affairs would also be au-
thorized to execute improvements at
the sites in coordination with the four
Tribes that the sites serve.
While this legislation is intended to
address safety and basic maintenance
needs, it is not the intent of Congress
for these fishing sites to become per-
manent residences but to continue
their existing purpose as traditional
fishing access sites.
With this caveat, we see no issues
with this bill that was favorably re-
ported by unanimous consent by the
Committee on Natural Resources last
Congress.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I urge
my colleagues to support the legisla-
tion, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New Mexico
(Ms. HAALAND) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, S. 50.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EASTERN BAND OF CHEROKEE
HISTORIC LANDS REACQUISITION
ACT
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 453) to take certain Federal lands
in Tennessee into trust for the benefit
of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indi-
ans, and for other purposes, as amend-
ed.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 453
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Eastern
Band of Cherokee Historic Lands Reacquisi-
tion Act’’.
SEC. 2. LAND TAKEN INTO TRUST FOR THE EAST-
ERN BAND OF CHEROKEE INDIANS.
(a) LANDS INTO TRUST.—Subject to such
rights of record as may be vested in third
parties to rights-of-way or other easements
or rights-of-record for roads, utilities, or
other purposes, the following Federal lands
managed by the Tennessee Valley Authority
and located on or above the 820-foot (MSL)
contour elevation in Monroe County, Ten-
nessee, on the shores of Tellico Reservoir,
are declared to be held in trust by the United
States for the use and benefit of the Eastern
Band of Cherokee Indians:
(1) SEQUOYAH MUSEUM PROPERTY.—Approxi-
mately 46.0 acres of land generally depicted
as ‘‘Sequoyah Museum’’, ‘‘Parcel 1’’, and
‘‘Parcel 2’’ on the map titled ‘‘Eastern Band
of Cherokee Historic Lands Reacquisition
Map 1’’ and dated April 30, 2015.
(2) SUPPORT PROPERTY.—Approximately
11.9 acres of land generally depicted as ‘‘Sup-
port Parcel’’ on the map titled ‘‘Eastern
Band of Cherokee Historic Lands Reacquisi-
tion Map 2’’ and dated April 30, 2015.
(3) CHOTA MEMORIAL PROPERTY AND TANASI
MEMORIAL PROPERTY.—Approximately 18.2
acres of land generally depicted as ‘‘Chota
Memorial 1’’ and ‘‘Tanasi Memorial’’ on the
map titled ‘‘Eastern Band of Cherokee His-
toric Lands Reacquisition Map 3’’ and dated
April 30, 2015, and including the Chota Me-
morial and all land within a circle with a ra-
dius of 86 feet measured from the center of
the Chota Memorial without regard to the
elevation of the land within the circle.
(b) PROPERTY ON LANDS.—In addition to
the land taken into trust by subsection (a),
the improvements on and appurtenances
thereto, including memorials, are and shall
remain the property of the Eastern Band of
Cherokee Indians.
(c) REVISED MAPS.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of a land transaction made
pursuant to this section, the Tennessee Val-
ley Authority, after consultation with the
Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians and the
Secretary of the Interior, shall submit re-
vised maps that depict the land taken into
trust under this section, including any cor-
rections made to the maps described in this
section to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Sen-
ate.
(d) CONTOUR ELEVATION CLARIFICATION.—
The contour elevations referred to in this
Act are based on MSL Datum as established
by the NGS Southeastern Supplementary
Adjustment of 1936 (NGVD29).
(e) CONDITIONS.—The lands taken into trust
under this section shall be subject to the
conditions described in section 5.
SEC. 3. PERMANENT EASEMENTS TAKEN INTO
TRUST FOR THE EASTERN BAND OF
CHEROKEE INDIANS.
(a) PERMANENT EASEMENTS.—The following
permanent easements for land below the 820-
foot (MSL) contour elevation for the fol-
lowing Federal lands in Monroe County, Ten-
nessee, on the shores of Tellico Reservoir,
are declared to be held in trust by the United
States for the benefit of the Eastern Band of
Cherokee Indians:
(1) CHOTA PENINSULA.—Approximately 8.5
acres of land generally depicted as ‘‘Chota
Memorial 2’’ on the map titled ‘‘Eastern
Band of Cherokee Historic Lands Reacquisi-
tion Map 3’’ and dated April 30, 2015.
(2) CHOTA-TANASI TRAIL.—Approximately
11.4 acres of land generally depicted as
‘‘Chota-Tanasi Trail’’ on the map titled
‘‘Eastern Band of Cherokee Historic Lands
Reacquisition Map 3’’ and dated April 30,
2015.
(b) REVISED MAPS.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of a land transaction made
pursuant to this section, the Tennessee Val-
ley Authority, after consultation with the
Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians and the
Secretary of the Interior, shall submit to the
Committee on Natural Resources of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Indian Affairs of the Senate revised maps
that depict the lands subject to easements
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.059 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10303
December 16, 2019
taken into trust under this section, includ-
ing any corrections necessary to the maps
described in this section.
(c) CONDITIONS.—The lands subject to ease-
ments taken into trust under this section
shall be subject to the use rights and condi-
tions described in section 5.
SEC. 4. TRUST ADMINISTRATION AND PURPOSES.
(a) APPLICABLE LAWS.—Except as described
in section 5, the lands subject to this Act
shall be administered under the laws and
regulations generally applicable to lands and
interests in lands held in trust on behalf of
Indian tribes.
(b) USE OF LAND.—Except the lands de-
scribed in section 2(a)(2), the lands subject to
this Act shall be used principally for memo-
rializing and interpreting the history and
culture of Indians and recreational activi-
ties, including management, operation, and
conduct of programs of and for—
(1) the Sequoyah birthplace memorial and
museum;
(2) the memorials to Chota and Tanasi as
former capitals of the Cherokees;
(3) the memorial and place of reinterment
for remains of the Eastern Band of Cherokee
Indians and other Cherokee tribes, including
those transferred to the Eastern Band of
Cherokee Indians and other Cherokee tribes
and those human remains and cultural items
transferred by the Tennessee Valley Author-
ity to those Cherokee tribes under the Na-
tive American Graves Protection and Repa-
triation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.); and
(4) interpreting the Trail of Tears National
Historic Trail.
(c) USE OF SUPPORT PROPERTY.—The land
described in section 2(a)(2) shall be used prin-
cipally for the support of lands subject to
this Act and the programs offered by the
Tribe relating to such lands and their pur-
poses including—
(1) classrooms and conference rooms;
(2) cultural interpretation and education
programs;
(3) temporary housing of guests partici-
pating in such programs or the management
of the properties and programs; and
(4) headquarters offices and support space
for the trust properties and programs.
(d) LAND USE.—The principal purposes of
the use of the land described in section 3(a)—
(1) paragraph (1), shall be for a recreational
trail from the general vicinity of the parking
lot to the area of the Chota Memorial and
beyond to the southern portion of the penin-
sula, including interpretive signs, benches,
and other compatible improvements; and
(2) paragraph (2), shall be for a recreational
trail between the Chota and Tanasi Memo-
rials, including interpretive signs, benches,
and other compatible improvements.
SEC. 5. USE RIGHTS, CONDITIONS.
(a) FLOODING OF LAND AND ROADS.—The
Tennessee Valley Authority may tempo-
rarily and intermittently flood the lands
subject to this Act that lie below the 824-foot
(MSL) contour elevation and the road access
to such lands that lie below the 824-foot
(MSL) contour elevation.
(b) FACILITIES AND STRUCTURES.—The East-
ern Band of Cherokee Indians may construct,
own, operate, and maintain—
(1) water use facilities and nonhabitable
structures, facilities, and improvements not
subject to serious damage if temporarily
flooded on the land adjoining the Tellico
Reservoir side of the lands subject to this
Act that lie between the 815-foot and 820-foot
(MSL) contour elevations, but only after
having received written consent from the
Tennessee Valley Authority and subject to
the terms of such approval; and
(2) water use facilities between the 815-foot
(MSL) contour elevations on the Tellico Res-
ervoir side of the lands subject to this Act
and the adjacent waters of Tellico Reservoir
and in and on such waters after having re-
ceived written consent from the Tennessee
Valley Authority and subject to the terms of
such approval, but may not construct, own,
operate, or maintain other nonhabitable
structures, facilities, and improvements on
such lands.
(c) INGRESS AND EGRESS.—The Eastern
Band of Cherokee Indians may use the lands
subject to this Act and Tellico Reservoir for
ingress and egress to and from such land and
the waters of the Tellico Reservoir and to
and from all structures, facilities, and im-
provements maintained in, on, or over such
land or waters.
(d) RIVER CONTROL AND DEVELOPMENT.—
The use rights under this section may not be
exercised so as to interfere in any way with
the Tennessee Valley Authority’s statutory
program for river control and development.
(e) TVA AUTHORITIES.—Nothing in this Act
shall be construed to affect the right of the
Tennessee Valley Authority to—
(1) draw down Tellico Reservoir;
(2) fluctuate the water level thereof as may
be necessary for its management of the Res-
ervoir; or
(3) permanently flood lands adjacent to
lands subject to this Act that lie below the
815-foot (MSL) contour elevation.
(f) RIGHT OF ENTRY.—The lands subject to
this Act shall be subject to a reasonable
right of entry by the personnel of the Ten-
nessee Valley Authority and agents of the
Tennessee Valley Authority operating in
their official capacities as necessary for pur-
poses of carrying out the Tennessee Valley
Authority’s statutory program for river con-
trol and development.
(g) ENTRY ONTO LAND.—To the extent that
the Tennessee Valley Authority’s operations
on the lands subject to this Act do not un-
reasonably interfere with the Eastern Band
of Cherokee Indians’ maintenance of an ap-
propriate setting for the memorialization of
Cherokee history or culture on the lands and
its operations on the lands, the Eastern Band
of Cherokee Indians shall allow the Ten-
nessee Valley Authority to enter the lands
to clear, ditch, dredge, and drain said lands
and apply larvicides and chemicals thereon
or to conduct bank protection work and
erect structures necessary in the promotion
and furtherance of public health, flood con-
trol, and navigation.
(h) LOSS OF HYDROPOWER CAPACITY.—All
future development of the lands subject to
this Act shall be subject to compensation to
the Tennessee Valley Authority for loss of
hydropower capacity as provided in the Ten-
nessee Valley Authority Flood Control Stor-
age Loss Guideline, unless agreed to other-
wise by the Tennessee Valley Authority.
(i) PROTECTION FROM LIABILITY.—The
United States shall not be liable for any loss
or damage resulting from—
(1) the temporary and intermittent flood-
ing of lands subject to this Act;
(2) the permanent flooding of adjacent
lands as provided in this section;
(3) wave action in Tellico Reservoir; or
(4) fluctuation of water levels for purposes
of managing Tellico Reservoir.
(j) CONTINUING RESPONSIBILITIES.—The Ten-
nessee Valley Authority shall—
(1) retain sole and exclusive Federal re-
sponsibility and liability to fund and imple-
ment any environmental remediation re-
quirements that are required under applica-
ble Federal or State law for any land or in-
terest in land to be taken into trust under
this Act, as well as the assessments under
paragraph (2) to identify the type and quan-
tity of any potential hazardous substances
on the lands;
(2) prior to the acquisition in trust, carry
out an assessment and notify the Secretary
of the Interior and the Eastern Band of Cher-
okee Indians whether any hazardous sub-
stances were stored on the lands and, if so,
whether those substances—
(A) were stored for 1 year or more on the
lands;
(B) were known to have been released on
the lands; or
(C) were known to have been disposed of on
the lands; and
(3) if the assessment under paragraph (2)
shows that hazardous substances were
stored, released, or disposed of on the lands,
include in its notice under paragraph (2) to
the Secretary of the Interior and the Eastern
Band of Cherokee Indians—
(A) the type and quantity of such haz-
ardous substances;
(B) the time at which such storage, release,
or disposal took place on the lands; and
(C) a description of any remedial actions, if
any, taken on the lands.
SEC. 6. LANDS SUBJECT TO THE ACT.
For the purposes of this Act, the term
‘‘lands subject to this Act’’ means lands and
interests in lands (including easements)
taken into trust for the benefit of the East-
ern Band of Cherokee Indians pursuant to or
under this Act.
SEC. 7. GAMING PROHIBITION.
No class II or class III gaming, as defined
in the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25
U.S.C. 2701 et seq.), shall be conducted on
lands subject to this Act.
SEC. 8. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New Mexico (Ms. HAALAND) and the
gentleman from Arkansas (Mr.
WESTERMAN) each will control 20 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Mexico.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New Mexico?
There was no objection.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the Eastern Band of
Cherokee Indians is one of three feder-
ally recognized Cherokee Tribes. Their
ancestral homeland includes substan-
tial parts of seven Eastern States, in-
cluding Tennessee.
In 1979, the completion of the Tellico
Dam by the Tennessee Valley Author-
ity, the TVA, caused large areas of
their ancestral lands along the Little
Tennessee River to be flooded, covering
many historic Tribal sites. The Cher-
okee can never recover these flooded
lands, but there are other sites in the
area that are in need of protection and
preservation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE7.032 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10304 December 16, 2019
H.R. 453 aids in this cause by trans-
ferring approximately 76 acres of his-
torically significant lands from the
TVA’s management to the United
States, to be held in trust for the East-
ern Band of Cherokee.
Placing these lands into trust would
give the Eastern Band greater control
over their historic homelands, as well
as the opportunity to memorialize the
history and culture of the Cherokee
people.
Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 453, and I
urge my colleagues to vote in favor of
this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, the Eastern Band of
Cherokee Indians is a relatively small
Tribe located in the Great Smoky
Mountains of western North Carolina.
The Tribe was opposed to the construc-
tion of the Tellico Dam and, after its
completion in 1979, worked with the
Tennessee Valley Authority regarding
impacted areas that were of historic
significance to the Tribe. The Tribe
currently manages most of these prop-
erties under permanent easements
granted in the mid-1980s as a result of
an informal agreement with TVA.
This bill would permanently transfer
these properties, totaling approxi-
mately 96 acres along the Little Ten-
nessee River and the Tellico Reservoir,
in trust status for the Tribe.
Gaming, pursuant to the Indian Gam-
ing Regulatory Act, would be prohib-
ited. Most of the parcels to be placed in
trust under the bill will be used for me-
morializing and interpreting the his-
tory of the Eastern Band of Cherokee
Indians. The remaining parcels will be
used for recreational trails.
I commend the gentleman from Ten-
nessee (Mr. FLEISCHMANN) for his con-
tinued hard work on this legislation,
which passed the House last Congress
by an overwhelming vote of 383–2. I
hope the Senate will take the oppor-
tunity to pass this worthy legislation
this Congress.
Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the
measure, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I have
no further requests for time, and I
would inquire whether my colleague
has any remaining speakers on his side.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
have one speaker.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from
Tennessee (Mr. FLEISCHMANN).
Mr. FLEISCHMANN. Mr. Speaker, I
rise in support of my bill, H.R. 453, and
I thank both my Democratic and Re-
publican colleagues for their great,
strong words of encouragement and
support on this long-overdue bill.
Mr. Speaker, the great State of Ten-
nessee gets its name from the historic
Overhill Cherokee village site called
Tanasi in present-day Monroe County,
Tennessee, one of my 11 counties that I
proudly represent in this, the people’s
House. Tanasi served as the capital of
the Cherokee Nation from as early as
1721 until 1730.
As a result of several misguided Fed-
eral policies, the Cherokee and other
Tribes were forcibly removed from
Tennessee and surrounding States, in-
cluding North Carolina, South Caro-
lina, Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, and
Virginia. This tragic period in Amer-
ican history led to the infamous Trail
of Tears.
My bill, the Eastern Band of Cher-
okee Historic Lands Reacquisition Act,
returns important historical land sites
back to the Eastern Band of Cherokee
Indians.
I want the Members of this House to
understand that this was a promise
that was made by the people of Ten-
nessee and the TVA to the Cherokee
decades ago. This is not something
new. The promise was made, and the
promise was not kept.
Many of the Eastern Band remained
in east Tennessee. In other words,
when this forced removal came, they
refused to go. They hid, and then they
came back.
Fortunately, today, the Eastern Band
of Cherokee Indians is a proud Cher-
okee Nation in my district, and this
76.1 acres is their sacred homeland.
This needs to be returned to them.
My district also includes several
areas where Sequoyah was, and still is,
honored by the Cherokee. As we go to
vote, we see her likeness, her image,
her bust here in this Capitol, but that
is something that the Cherokees still
want to honor on this land in Ten-
nessee.
What is so important? This is so im-
portant that TVA, the United States of
America, the great State of Tennessee,
and the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indi-
ans have all come together to right a
long-term wrong. We will honor and
cherish Cherokee history and Cherokee
traditions with this bill in Monroe
County, Tennessee.
At a time when this House, perhaps
even this Nation, is divided on a lot of
issues, I have received overwhelming
bipartisan support in this House for
this bill, from Republicans and Demo-
crats and from up the hall in the
United States Senate. Senator MARSHA
BLACKBURN, Senator LAMAR ALEX-
ANDER, and Senator THOM TILLIS, Rep-
resentative PHIL ROE, Representative
MARK MEADOWS, and Representative
TOM COLE have all helped us.
Without further ado, Mr. Speaker, I
urge prompt consideration and support
of my bill.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
again commend the gentleman from
Tennessee for his work on this bill. The
Trail of Tears passes through my dis-
trict in Arkansas. Again, this is a long-
overdue bill.
I urge passage of it in the House, and
I urge our friends in the Senate to take
up the bill and pass it, as well.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I also
wholeheartedly support this legisla-
tion, and I urge my colleagues to sup-
port it, as well.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New Mexico
(Ms. HAALAND) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 453, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
b 1745
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 3172.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New Mexico?
There was no objection.
f
VOTE TO IMPEACH PRESIDENT
TRUMP
(Mr. MCNERNEY asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. MCNERNEY. Mr. Speaker, the
House of Representatives is vested by
the Constitution with the power of im-
peachment to provide a balance to the
power of the Presidency. Without this
essential duty, the President could ex-
ploit the sacred office without any re-
gard for the law.
On January 3, 2019, every Member of
the House swore an oath to defend our
Constitution, and this week, we are
being asked to do just that.
President Trump tried to undermine
the 2020 election; and when the House
exercised this duty to investigate this
abuse of power, the President refused
to cooperate and forbade his adminis-
tration from doing so, obstructing Con-
gress from carrying out our sworn re-
sponsibility.
If these actions bear no con-
sequences, future Presidents may act
without constraint, and American de-
mocracy will be at an end.
Therefore, compelled by my sworn
duty to defend the Constitution, I will
vote to impeach this President, and I
urge the Senate to remove him from of-
fice.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16DE7.061 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10305
December 16, 2019
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 5 o’clock and 46 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 0046
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. PERLMUTTER) at 12
o’clock and 46 minutes a.m.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R.
1158, DHS CYBER INCIDENT RE-
SPONSE TEAMS ACT OF 2019;
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF SENATE AMENDMENT TO H.R.
1865, NATIONAL LAW ENFORCE-
MENT MUSEUM COMMEMORA-
TIVE COIN ACT; AND PROVIDING
FOR ADOPTION OF H. RES. 761,
PERMITTING INDIVIDUALS TO BE
ADMITTED TO THE HALL OF THE
HOUSE IN ORDER TO OBTAIN
FOOTAGE OF THE HOUSE IN SES-
SION FOR INCLUSION IN THE
ORIENTATION FILM TO BE
SHOWN TO VISITORS AT THE
CAPITOL VISITOR CENTER
Mr. MORELLE, from the Committee
on Rules, submitted a privileged report
(Rept. No. 116–353) on the resolution (H.
Res. 765) providing for consideration of
the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R.
1158) to authorize cyber incident re-
sponse teams at the Department of
Homeland Security, and for other pur-
poses; providing for consideration of
the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R.
1865) to require the Secretary of the
Treasury to mint a coin in commemo-
ration of the opening of the National
Law Enforcement Museum in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and for other pur-
poses; and providing for the adoption of
the resolution (H. Res. 761) permitting
individuals to be admitted to the Hall
of the House in order to obtain footage
of the House in session for inclusion in
the orientation film to be shown to
visitors at the Capitol Visitor Center,
which was referred to the House Cal-
endar and ordered to be printed.
f
ADJOURNMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to section 7(b) of House Resolution
758, the House stands adjourned until 9
a.m. today.
Thereupon (at 12 o’clock and 48 min-
utes a.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until today, Tuesday,
December 17, 2019, at 9 a.m.
f
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 453, the
Eastern Band of Cherokee Historic
Lands Reacquisition Act, as amended,
would have no significant effect on the
deficit, and therefore, the budgetary ef-
fects of such bill are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 4227, the
MAPS Act, as amended, would have no
significant effect on the deficit, and
therefore, the budgetary effects of such
bill are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 4779, to
extend the Undertaking Spam,
Spyware, And Fraud Enforcement With
Enforcers beyond Borders Act of 2006,
and for other purposes, as amended,
would have no significant effect on the
deficit, and therefore, the budgetary ef-
fects of such bill are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the
CONGRESIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 4998,
the Secure and Trusted Communica-
tions Networks Act of 2019, as amend-
ed, would have no significant effect on
the deficit, and therefore, the budg-
etary effects of such bill are estimated
as zero.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia: Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor. H.R. 2474. A bill to amend
the National Labor Relations Act, the
Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947, and
the Labor-Management Reporting and Dis-
closure Act of 1959, and for other purposes;
with an amendment (Rept. 116–347). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 2647. A bill to adopt a cer-
tain California flammability standard as a
Federal flammability standard to protect
against the risk of upholstered furniture
flammability, and for other purposes (Rept.
116–348). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 4227. A bill to prohibit the
submission to the Federal Communications
Commission of broadband internet access
service coverage information or data for the
purposes of compiling an inaccurate
broadband coverage map (Rept. 116–349). Re-
ferred to the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 4229. A bill to require the
Federal Communications Commission to
issue rules relating to the collection of data
with respect to the availability of broadband
services, and for other purposes; with an
amendment (Rept. 116–350). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 4779. A bill to extend the
Undertaking Spam, Spyware, And Fraud En-
forcement With Enforcers beyond Borders
Act of 2006, and for other purposes (Rept. 116–
351). Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 4998. A bill to prohibit cer-
tain Federal loans, grants, and subsidies
from being used to purchase communications
equipment or services posing national secu-
rity risks, to provide for the establishment
of a reimbursement program for the replace-
ment of communications equipment or serv-
ices posing such risks, and for other pur-
poses; with amendments (Rept. 116–352). Re-
ferred to the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union.
[Filed on December 17 (legislative day of De-
cember 16), 2019]
Mr. MORELLE: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 765. Resolution providing
for Consideration of the Senate amendment
to the bill (H.R. 1158) to authorize cyber inci-
dent response teams at the Department of
Homeland Security, and for other purposes;
providing for consideration of the Senate
amendment to the bill (H.R. 1865) to require
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint a coin
in commemoration of the opening of the Na-
tional Law Enforcement Museum in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and for other purposes;
and providing for the adoption of the resolu-
tion (H. Res. 761) permitting individuals to
be admitted to the Hall of the House in order
to obtain footage of the House in session for
inclusion in the orientation film to be shown
to visitors at the Capitol Visitor Center
(Rept. 116–353). Referred to the House Cal-
endar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. MCHENRY (for himself, Mr.
RUIZ, Mr. HUDSON, Mr. SCHRADER, Mr.
POSEY, Mr. CISNEROS, and Mr. BUR-
GESS):
H.R. 5434. A bill to amend the Clean Air
Act to provide an exemption from certain
antitampering provisions for certain actions
for modifying a motor vehicle that is not
legal for operation on a street or highway
and is to be used solely for competition, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. LEVIN of California,
Mr. SABLAN, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr.
MCEACHIN, and Mr. LOWENTHAL):
H.R. 5435. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Interior and the Chief of the United
States Forest Service to meet certain tar-
gets for the reduction of the emission of
greenhouse gases, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Natural Resources, and in
addition to the Committees on Agriculture,
and Education and Labor, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico:
H.R. 5436. A bill to amend the Agriculture
Improvement Act of 2018, with respect to en-
forcement of animal fighting ventures prohi-
bition in the territories, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Agriculture.
By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself and Mr.
RUTHERFORD):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 21:21 Mar 02, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\DECEMBER\H16DE9.REC H16DE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10306 December 16, 2019
H.R. 5437. A bill to provide for certain ac-
tions by the International Trade Administra-
tion in order to increase exports by small-
and medium-sized enterprises, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Mr. COX of California (for himself,
Mr. HARDER of California, Mr. COSTA,
Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, Mr. PANETTA, and Mr.
GRIJALVA):
H.R. 5438. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, acting through
the Director of the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention, to award grants to de-
velop programs to increase health care pro-
viders’ awareness of Valley fever, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. HICE of Georgia:
H.R. 5439. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to include railroad police offi-
cers in the definition of qualified law en-
forcement officers; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 5440. A bill to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to provide financial assist-
ance to eligible entities to provide and co-
ordinate the provision of post-traumatic
stress disorder prevention services for vet-
erans through the award of grants to such
entities, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. MOULTON (for himself and
Mrs. TRAHAN):
H.R. 5441. A bill to repeal the funding au-
thorization sunset and the total funding cap
for the Essex National Heritage Area; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Ms. PORTER (for herself and Ms.
DELAURO):
H.R. 5442. A bill to amend title XXVII of
the Public Health Service Act and title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to require
pharmacies to disclose any differential be-
tween the cost of a prescription drug based
on whether certain individuals use prescrip-
tion drug coverage to acquire such drug, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. SCANLON (for herself and Mr.
EMMER):
H.R. 5443. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to clarify that the provi-
sion of home and community-based services
is not prohibited in an acute care hospital,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for him-
self and Mr. SIRES):
H.J. Res. 81. A joint resolution recognizing
the 75th anniversary of the Battle of the
Bulge during World War II; to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. MCHENRY:
H.R. 5434.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3: ‘‘To regulate
Commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several states, and with the Indian
Tribes.’’ Because the federal government has
extended Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 be-
yond its intended boundaries, it follows that
efforts to rein in excessive federal govern-
ment encroachment in this area can be justi-
fied by Article I, Section 8, Clause 3.
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 5435.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. I, sec. 8, cl. 3
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian tribes;
U.S. Cont. art. IV, sec. 3, cl. 2, sen. a
The Congress shall have Power to dispose
of and make all needful Rule and Regula-
tions respecting the Territory of other Prop-
erty belonging to the United States;
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN:
H.R. 5436.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress has the power to enact this
legislation pursuant to Article I, Section 8,
Clauses 3 and 18 of the U.S. Constitution,
which provide as follows:
The Congress shall have Power To [ . . . ]
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes; [ . . . ]—And
To make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mrs. BUSTOS:
H.R. 5437.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 18 of the United States Constitu-
tion .
By Mr. COX:
H.R. 5438.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. HICE:
H.R. 5439.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3, which states
that Congress has the power ‘‘to regulate
Commerce with foreign Nations, and among
the several States, and with the Indian
Tribes;’’ Article I, Section 8, Clause 18, which
states that Congress has the power to ‘‘make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.’’
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 5440.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States . . . .
ARTICLE I, SECTION 8, CLAUSE 1
By Mr. MOULTON:
H.R. 5441.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Ms. PORTER:
H.R. 5442.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution.
By Ms. SCANLON:
H.R. 5443.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. SMITH:
H.J. Res. 81.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 94: Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 139: Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Ms. KELLY
of Illinois, and Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 510: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 562: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 587: Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 873: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 934: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 1055: Mr. NEAL.
H.R. 1111: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 1130: Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 1140: Mr. COSTA and Mr. RODNEY DAVIS
of Illinois.
H.R. 1243: Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 1360: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1379: Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 1398: Mr. PHILLIPS and Mr. LAWSON of
Florida.
H.R. 1636: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 1648: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1692: Mr. HIGGINS of New York.
H.R. 1763: Mr. CRIST and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 1880: Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mrs. DEMINGS, and Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 1931: Mr. VAN DREW and Ms. FRANKEL.
H.R. 2062: Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 2137: Mr. GROTHMAN and Ms. DAVIDS of
Kansas.
H.R. 2150: Mr. GARAMENDI, Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK, and Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 2249: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 2322: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 2388: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 2599: Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 2628: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 2650: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 2683: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 2731: Mr. MULLIN and Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER.
H.R. 2733: Mr. STAUBER.
H.R. 2771: Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 2782: Mr. STEIL.
H.R. 2850: Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. KHANNA,
Mr. MEEKS, and Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 2895: Ms. STEFANIK and Mr. THOMPSON
of Mississippi.
H.R. 3040: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 3062: Mr. SMUCKER and Mr.
SCHWEIKERT.
H.R. 3065: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 3103: Mr. GOTTHEIMER and Mr. STEIL.
H.R. 3120: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 3225: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 3248: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 3441: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 3473: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 3534: Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina.
H.R. 3576: Mr. MCGOVERN and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 3580: Mr. ADERHOLT.
H.R. 3584: Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L16DE7.100 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10307
December 16, 2019
PETERSON, Mrs. BEATTY, and Mr. RUTHER-
FORD.
H.R. 3772: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 3774: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 3843: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 3953: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 3961: Mr. LEVIN of California, Ms.
JAYAPAL, and Mr. BACON.
H.R. 3971: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 4065: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 4086: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 4107: Mr. KHANNA, Mr. TAKANO, Mr.
GRIJALVA, and Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 4138: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 4177: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 4227: Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 4331: Mr. ENGEL and Mr. BERA.
H.R. 4339: Mr. KILDEE and Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 4348: Mr. LYNCH, Mr. RASKIN, and Ms.
SCANLON.
H.R. 4447: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 4526: Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. NORTON, and
Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 4817: Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. YOUNG, Mr.
LATTA, and Mr. WALDEN.
H.R. 4928: Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 4980: Mr. TED LIEU of California and
Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 5044: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 5127: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 5138: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 5151: Mr. ESPAILLAT and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 5169: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 5170: Mr. CARSON of Indiana and Mr.
HARDER of California.
H.R. 5185: Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 5200: Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 5297: Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina.
H.R. 5362: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 5420: Mr. RUSH, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, and Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of
Illinois.
H. J. Res. 22: Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H. J. Res. 35: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H. J. Res. 79: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H. Con. Res. 74: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H. Res. 109: Ms. MOORE.
H. Res. 174: Mr. HUDSON.
H. Res. 743: Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H. Res. 746: Mr. REED, Mr. KELLY of Penn-
sylvania, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. EVANS, Mr.
HILL of Arkansas, and Mr. SMITH of Ne-
braska.
H. Res. 752: Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, and Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H. Res. 754: Ms. SHALALA and Mr. CHABOT.
f
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
72. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
House of Representatives of the Common-
wealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, rel-
ative to House Joint Resolution 21–6, to re-
quest the Honorable GREGORIO KILILI
CAMACHO SABLAN to introduce an amend-
ment to Sect. 12616 from the Agriculture Im-
provement Act of 2018 (U.S. Public Law 115–
334) to exempt the Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands from the provi-
sions that ban cockfighting activities; which
was referred jointly to the Committees on
Agriculture, the Judiciary, and Oversight
and Reform.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE7.029 H16DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S7037
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, DECEMBER 16, 2019 No. 203
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Mighty God, judge the nations with
Your righteousness and justice, and
keep our lawmakers on the path of
truth. May they strive to maintain a
clear conscience in whatever they do
for You and humanity. Lord, give them
the wisdom to refuse to deviate from
integrity, coveting Heaven’s approval
in their labors for Your Kingdom. May
they also remember that they are rep-
resenting Your divine purposes for our
Nation and world.
Lord, thank You that Your mercy is
from everlasting to everlasting upon
those who come to You with reverence.
May Your glory endure forever.
We pray in Your merciful Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate will now resume legislative session.
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR
2020—CONFERENCE REPORT—Re-
sumed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of the conference
report to accompany S. 1790, which will
be stated by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
The committee of conference on the votes
of the two Houses on the amendment of the
House to the bill (S. 1790) to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for military ac-
tivities of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense activi-
ties of the Department of Energy, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes, having
met, have agreed that the Senate recede
from its disagreement to the amendment of
the House and agree to the same with an
amendment and the House agree to the
same, signed by a majority of the conferees
on the part of both Houses.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to address the Sen-
ate for 1 minute as in morning busi-
ness.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICING REDUCTION ACT
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I re-
cently heard from an 81-year-old Iowan
who is battling cancer. She told me
that one test cost more than $12,700.
That is almost an entire year’s income
for that lady. On top of that, her medi-
cation is more than $4,700 a month. She
is on Humana and Medicare, but that is
not enough for her to still afford her
medical bills.
Too many Americans share this
Iowan’s story. That is why we must
pass the Prescription Drug Pricing Re-
duction Act, to finally help Americans
afford the critical medications they
need.
The bill I just named is a bipartisan
bill sponsored by this Senator and
Democratic Senator WYDEN. It got
voted out of committee 19 to 9 back in
July.
We have the good fortune that the
House of Representatives understands
that the pricing of prescription drugs is
a major problem. They passed a bill
last week. I applaud them for taking up
this issue. It so happens that the bill
they passed probably can’t get any-
where near 60 votes in the U.S. Senate,
so I hope we will have an opportunity
to sit down with Speaker PELOSI and
other House Members to see what we
can work out to do something about
the high cost of prescription drugs for
the citizens of this country. Every
Member of this body hears from their
constituents that they don’t like the
fantastic increase in prices of drugs
that occurs on a regular basis.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
TRIBUTE TO DOUG CONNOLLY
Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President,
today I rise to pay tribute to our long-
time Democratic Policy Communica-
tions Committee staff member, Doug
Connolly, who will be retiring at the
end of the month with an impressive 33
years of working for the committee
and working for the Senate. I am
pleased to have Doug with me today on
the floor.
For a moment, think back to 1986. A
couple of top songs that year were
‘‘Stuck With You’’ by Huey Lewis and
the News and ‘‘Manic Monday’’ by the
Bangles. The top movie that year was
‘‘Top Gun,’’ and the average price of a
movie ticket was $3.71. I don’t know if
we remember those, but it has been a
while.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:18 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE6.000 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7038 December 16, 2019
In Washington, the Senate voted to
allow its proceedings to be televised on
C–SPAN that year. A young graduate
of the University of Michigan and vet-
eran of Paul Simon’s first Senate cam-
paign began working for what was then
called the Democratic Policy Com-
mittee.
A lot of things have changed since
then. We are all a little bit older, and
C–SPAN has broadcast more than a few
hours of Senate floor proceedings. How-
ever, one thing hasn’t changed: Doug is
still as dedicated to public service as
he was on his first day of work 33 years
ago. I have been personally so im-
pressed by Doug’s work ethic, though
not surprised. After all, he grew up in
a hard-working auto family in Roch-
ester, MI.
Over the years, Doug’s work ethic
has benefited a number of folks you
have heard of, including Senator Rob-
ert Byrd, Senator Tom Daschle, Sen-
ator Byron Dorgan, Senator CHUCK
SCHUMER, and Senator Harry Reid,
whose website he designed.
Doug’s computer skills are legendary
and haven’t just benefited the Demo-
cratic caucus. They have benefited the
Nation as a whole. Doug actually wrote
the computer program that the Senate
Library and the Senate Historian rely
on to keep track of votes. That is im-
portant information for the American
public to know.
Thanks to Doug, we know that since
Doug has worked in the Senate, there
have been 11,114 votes cast. Only Sen-
ator LEAHY, Senator GRASSLEY, and
Senator MCCONNELL have been around
long enough to have cast all of them.
When Doug isn’t crunching numbers,
he is a voracious reader and a devoted
father and husband. He is extremely
proud of his children. His son Nick is
getting his doctoral degree in mathe-
matics at the University of Iowa. His
daughter Caitlin earned her degree in
anthropology from St. Mary’s College
in Maryland and is an intern with the
Smithsonian Institution.
Doug’s wife Brenda has him slightly
beat on career longevity. She has
worked in the House of Representatives
for 34 years, and every day Doug walks
over to the House side so that they can
have lunch together. Pretty soon, how-
ever, their lunch dates might be on a
beach. Doug is retiring this month, and
he hopes to be spending a lot of time
scuba diving in the Caribbean.
Doug, thank you so much for your
hard work, your creativity, and your 33
years of public service. The committee
has been incredibly lucky to have you,
and all of us will miss working with
you. I think it is fitting that after
more than three decades of spending so
much time reading the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD, now your name will be in it.
We all wish you and your family much
happiness in your next chapter.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 382.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Matthew Wal-
den McFarland, of Ohio, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern
District of Ohio.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Matthew Walden McFarland, of
Ohio, to be United States District Judge for
the Southern District of Ohio.
Rick Scott, Steve Daines, Mike Crapo,
Pat Roberts, Marco Rubio, Lindsey
Graham, John Boozman, John Hoeven,
Roy Blunt, John Thune, John Cornyn,
Deb Fischer, Mike Rounds, John Bar-
rasso, James E. Risch, Tim Scott,
Mitch McConnell.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 465.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Anuraag
Singhal, of Florida, to be United States
District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of Florida.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Anuraag Singhal, of Florida, to be
United States District Judge for the South-
ern District of Florida.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, Rich-
ard Burr, Shelley Moore Capito, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, John Barrasso,
Roy Blunt, John Thune, Steve Daines,
Thom Tillis, Kevin Cramer, Chuck
Grassley, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott,
Roger F. Wicker, Cindy Hyde-Smith.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 466.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Karen Spencer
Marston, of Pennsylvania, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Karen Spencer Marston, of Penn-
sylvania, to be United States District Judge
for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Mitch McConnell, Mike Crapo, Thom
Tillis, Mike Rounds, Lamar Alexander,
John Hoeven, Roger F. Wicker, Pat
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:18 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16DE6.009 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7039
December 16, 2019
Roberts, John Thune, Cindy Hyde-
Smith, John Boozman, Tom Cotton,
Chuck Grassley, Kevin Cramer, Steve
Daines, Todd Young, John Cornyn.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 480.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Daniel Mack
Traynor, of North Dakota, to be United
States District Judge for the District
of North Dakota.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Daniel Mack Traynor, of North Da-
kota, to be United States District Judge for
the District of North Dakota.
Mitch McConnell, Mike Crapo, Thom
Tillis, Mike Rounds, Lamar Alexander,
John Hoeven, Roger F. Wicker, Pat
Roberts, John Thune, Cindy Hyde-
Smith, John Boozman, Tom Cotton,
Chuck Grassley, Kevin Cramer, Steve
Daines, Todd Young, John Cornyn.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 481.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Jodi W.
Dishman, of Oklahoma, to be United
States District Judge for the Western
District of Oklahoma.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Jodi W. Dishman, of Oklahoma, to
be United States District Judge for the West-
ern District of Oklahoma.
Mitch McConnell, Mike Crapo, Thom
Tillis, Mike Rounds, Lamar Alexander,
John Hoeven, Roger F. Wicker, Pat
Roberts, John Thune, Cindy Hyde-
Smith, John Boozman, Tom Cotton,
Chuck Grassley, Kevin Cramer, Steve
Daines, Todd Young, John Cornyn.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 490.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of John M. Galla-
gher, of Pennsylvania, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of John M. Gallagher, of Pennsyl-
vania, to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Mitch McConnell, Mike Crapo, Thom
Tillis, Mike Rounds, Lamar Alexander,
John Hoeven, Roger F. Wicker, Pat
Roberts, John Thune, Cindy Hyde-
Smith, John Boozman, Tom Cotton,
Chuck Grassley, Kevin Cramer, Steve
Daines, Todd Young, John Cornyn.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 536.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Bernard Mau-
rice Jones II, of Oklahoma, to be
United States District Judge for the
Western District of Oklahoma.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Bernard Maurice Jones II, of Okla-
homa, to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Oklahoma.
Mitch McConnell, Mike Crapo, Thom
Tillis, Mike Rounds, Lamar Alexander,
John Hoeven, Roger F. Wicker, Pat
Roberts, John Thune, Cindy Hyde-
Smith, John Boozman, Tom Cotton,
Chuck Grassley, Kevin Cramer, Steve
Daines, Todd Young, John Cornyn.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 354.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Mary Kay
Vyskocil, of New York, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern
District of New York.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:18 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16DE6.016 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7040 December 16, 2019
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Mary Kay Vyskocil, of New York,
to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of New York.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Pat Roberts, Mike
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Roger F. Wicker,
Cindy Hyde-Smith, Kevin Cramer,
John Hoeven, Rob Portman, Dan Sul-
livan, Chuck Grassley, Richard Burr,
John Thune, Roy Blunt.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 383.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Kea Whetzal
Riggs, of New Mexico, to be United
States District Judge for the District
of New Mexico.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Kea Whetzal Riggs, of New Mexico,
to be United States District Judge for the
District of New Mexico.
Mitch McConnell, Mike Crapo, Thom
Tillis, Mike Rounds, Lamar Alexander,
John Hoeven, Roger F. Wicker, Pat
Roberts, John Thune, Cindy Hyde-
Smith, John Boozman, Tom Cotton,
Chuck Grassley, Kevin Cramer, Steve
Daines, Todd Young, John Cornyn.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 234.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Robert J.
Colville, of Pennsylvania, to be United
States District Judge for the Western
District of Pennsylvania.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Robert J. Colville, of Pennsylvania,
to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Pennsylvania.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Pat Roberts, Mike
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Roger F. Wicker,
Cindy Hyde-Smith, Kevin Cramer,
John Hoeven, Rob Portman, Dan Sul-
livan, Chuck Grassley, Richard Burr,
John Thune, Roy Blunt.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 349.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Lewis J.
Liman, of New York, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern
District of New York.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Lewis J. Liman, of New York, to be
United States District Judge for the South-
ern District of New York.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Pat Roberts, Mike
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Roger F. Wicker,
Cindy Hyde-Smith, Kevin Cramer,
John Hoeven, Rob Portman, Dan Sul-
livan, Chuck Grassley, Richard Burr,
John Thune, Roy Blunt.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 356.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Gary Richard
Brown, of New York, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of New York.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Gary Richard Brown, of New York,
to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of New York.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Pat Roberts, Mike
Rounds, Thom Tillis, Roger F. Wicker,
Cindy Hyde-Smith, Kevin Cramer,
John Hoeven, Rob Portman, Dan Sul-
livan, Chuck Grassley, Richard Burr,
John Thune, Roy Blunt.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 357.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:18 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16DE6.025 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7041
December 16, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Stephanie
Dawkins Davis, of Michigan, to be
United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Michigan.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Stephanie Dawkins Davis, of
Michigan, to be United States District Judge
for the Eastern District of Michigan.
Mitch McConnell, Mike Crapo, Thom
Tillis, Mike Rounds, John Hoeven,
Roger F. Wicker, Pat Roberts, John
Thune, Roy Blunt, Cindy Hyde-Smith,
John Boozman, Tom Cotton, Chuck
Grassley, Kevin Cramer, Steve Daines,
Todd Young, John Cornyn.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the man-
datory quorum calls for the cloture
motions be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The remarks of Ms. COLLINS per-
taining to the introduction of S. 3057
are printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
Ms. COLLINS. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent to speak as in morning
business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
DAMON PAUL NELSON AND MATTHEW YOUNG
POLLARD INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT
FOR FISCAL YEARS 2018, 2019, AND 2020
Mr. BURR. Mr. President, the Senate
Select Committee on Intelligence has
worked over the past 3 years to build a
critical piece of legislation. The Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal
Years 2018, 2019, and 2020 supports vital
important programs and takes bold
steps to defend this country.
Last year, the Senate Intelligence
Committee unanimously passed our
bill with a vote of 15 to 0. ‘‘Unani-
mous’’ is not a word you hear very
much in Washington today, but it
speaks to the importance of the issues
and the comprehensiveness of this bill.
This success is also thanks to the ef-
forts of Vice Chairman WARNER.
In June we partnered with our col-
leagues on the Armed Services to si-
multaneously push forward both bills.
The NDAA and the IAA combination
passed with a vote of 86 to 8.
Likewise, the House Intelligence
Committee bill captured an over-
whelming vote in the full House when
it passed in July by a vote of 397 to 31.
After many months of work and ne-
gotiations, we have before us a bipar-
tisan, comprehensive bill that im-
proves our defenses today and will give
the intelligence community the re-
sources it needs to defend us in the
years to come.
For example, it deters Russian and
other foreign influence in our elections
and facilitates information sharing be-
tween Federal, State, and local elec-
tion officials. It protects the Nation’s
supply chain from counterintelligence
threats from countries such as Russia
and China. In order to accomplish
these goals, the bill increases scrutiny
of Russian activities in our country.
We require Russian diplomats to notify
the State Department of their travel
inside the United States. We counter
Russian propaganda, and we require
threat assessments on Russian finan-
cial activities.
To accomplish these missions, we
need highly talented counterintel-
ligence officers. We must verify that
they are worthy of these positions of
extreme trust, and we must com-
pensate them fairly for the sacrifices
they make. So our bill improves the se-
curity clearance process—and large
credit goes to the vice chairman—by
reducing backlogs, improving clear-
ance information sharing, and holding
the executive branch responsible for
the modernizing the clearance process.
Our bill supports the intelligence
community personnel by enhancing
pay scales for certain cyber security
positions, increasing recruitment ef-
forts, and creating a pathway to give
new parents the time they need to sup-
port their growing families. We ask our
Nation’s defenders to miss soccer
games and family dinners. We can give
them space and security to support
new moms, new dads, and new babies.
Lastly, the bill continues a long and
vital history of accountability for our
most sensitive intelligence programs.
My colleagues and I on the committee
have happily accepted the privilege and
the weighty responsibility of moni-
toring the intelligence programs on be-
half of all 85 of our colleagues. We have
done so with reasoned debate and bi-
partisan agreement, and we have done
so knowing that even though new
threats keep us up at night, they are
oftentimes being met by heroic men
and women who allow the rest of us in
this country to sleep soundly.
It is noteworthy that the last intel-
ligence authorization bill was enacted
on May 5, 2017. We cannot afford to go
this long again without the authorities
that our intelligence agencies need to
do their work. We must be credible, de-
pendable, and yearly check on intel-
ligence activities.
One final note, the Intelligence Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Years 2018,
2019, and 2020 is named for two of our
colleagues whom we lost recently. Mat-
thew Pollard and Damon Nelson
worked for the Senate and House Intel-
ligence Committees, respectively.
Their families lost them too soon, and
we are poorer for the loss of their
friendship and their expertise. We are
proud to pass this bill in their honor
and look forward to its swift enact-
ment.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, first of
all, let me acknowledge my friend and
colleague and the chairman of my com-
mittee, RICHARD BURR, for his great
work. I am going to talk about him in
a moment. I do hope the RECORD cap-
tured the nice things he said about me.
Usually, he characterizes me in a dif-
ferent way, but I am grateful for his
comments today.
I rise today in support of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020, which includes the
Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew
Young Pollard Intelligence Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Years 2018, 2019, and
2020. Congressional passage of the In-
telligence Authorization Act provides
support for our Nation’s critical intel-
ligence programs and ensures that the
hard-working men and women in the
intelligence community have the au-
thorities and resources they need to de-
fend our Nation. It also improves the
oversight of our Nation’s 17 intel-
ligence agencies, which operate around
the globe.
Before I get into the specifics, I want
to note that this important bill is the
product of bipartisan work made pos-
sible by Chairman BURR’s leadership. It
was thanks to the chairman’s leader-
ship that the IAA was unanimously
passed by the committee in May and
included as part of the Senate’s Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act in
June.
I also want to take this opportunity
to thank my friends on the Senate
Armed Services Committee, especially
the Senators from Oklahoma and
Rhode Island, Senator INHOFE and
Ranking Member REED. Robust intel-
ligence supports our soldiers and mili-
tary operations. So I thank them for
allowing the IAA to be considered
along with the Defense authorization
bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:35 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16DE6.035 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7042 December 16, 2019
As vice chairman of the Senate Intel-
ligence Committee, I am proud of sev-
eral provisions within the IAA, par-
ticularly those aimed at tackling the
technological threats from China, bol-
stering intelligence security against
foreign malign influence, and enhanc-
ing whistleblower processes to protect
the brave individuals who come for-
ward to report waste, fraud, abuse, and
other malfeasance.
Beyond these provisions, I want to
highlight a few others that I believe
will have a real impact on our Nation’s
security and the individuals serving in
the IC.
First, as the chairman has already
mentioned, there is paid parental
leave. The National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act includes a landmark provision
that grants 12 weeks of paid parental
leave for government employees. This
builds upon the original bipartisan pro-
vision included in the Senate-passed
IAA, which gave 12 weeks of paid pa-
rental leave to IC personnel, including
adoptive and foster parents. This im-
portant provision will help to recruit
and retain top talent across the gov-
ernment, including within the IC.
Frankly, this is a vital step forward
for families across the Nation, and I
am glad that our committee helped to
lay the groundwork for this milestone
achievement.
Next, deterring foreign interference
in our elections. The IAA includes a
number of provisions that are particu-
larly important as we enter a Presi-
dential election year. These include
measures to deter foreign interference,
including increased sharing of informa-
tion between State, local, and Federal
officials. It also creates an independent
Social Media Data and Threat Analysis
Center to counter foreign propaganda.
Additionally, it includes provisions to
counter the use of ‘‘deepfakes’’ and
other emerging technologies by our ad-
versaries.
Next, there are security clearance re-
forms. Additionally, the IAA includes
several provisions to modernize the
government’s outdated security clear-
ance process. The bill advances reforms
that will make the system simpler and
more transparent. It will capitalize on
advanced technology and reflect the
demand of today’s mobile workforce. It
calls for specific plans to reduce the
background investigation and adju-
dication backlogs and to improve infor-
mation sharing, so that only the folks
who deserve a clearance can have one.
These provisions are critically impor-
tant to the government and our indus-
try partners in maintaining a trusted
and agile workforce.
The next provision is the creation of
a public-private talent exchange. Fi-
nally, I want to highlight a provision
that creates this IC public-private tal-
ent exchange. This exchange will allow
employees to move between the public
and private sectors more readily,
broadening the expertise perspective of
our workforce, because, frankly, solv-
ing the complex problems facing our
government today requires robust part-
nership with industry.
The IAA also contains provisions on
the security risks posed by climate
change, 5G, and hostile foreign intel-
ligence services, to name just a few.
Before I conclude, I thank my friend
the chairman, RICHARD BURR, as well
as the hard-working bipartisan staff of
the Intelligence Committee, without
whose work this achievement certainly
would not have been possible. I am
proud of the work we have done. I am
proud of the fact that this may be the
only major authorization bill that, in a
committee, received unanimous sup-
port, and I hope it bodes well for future
cooperation going forward.
Before I yield the floor, let me ac-
knowledge a great member of our com-
mittee, the Senator from Maine, who
was absolutely central to the success-
ful conclusion of this legislation.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
f
CHANGE OF VOTE
Mr. KING. Mr. President, on rollcall
vote No. 397, I voted no. It was my in-
tention to vote yea; therefore, I ask
unanimous consent that I be permitted
to change my vote since it will not af-
fect the outcome.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
I yield the floor.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The clerk will report the motion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the con-
ference report to accompany S. 1790, an
original bill to authorize appropriations for
fiscal year 2020 for military activities of the
Department of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of the
Department of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and
for other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, Kevin
Cramer, John Cornyn, Mike Crapo,
Shelley Moore Capito, Pat Roberts,
John Thune, James Lankford, James
E. Risch, Deb Fischer, Lamar Alex-
ander, Richard Burr, John Barrasso,
James M. Inhofe, Johnny Isakson,
Steve Daines.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
Is it the sense of the Senate that de-
bate on the conference report to ac-
company S. 1790, an original bill to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes,
shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY), the Sen-
ator from Montana (Mr. DAINES), the
Senator from South Carolina (Mr. GRA-
HAM), the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
ISAKSON), the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY), the Senator from Geor-
gia (Mr. PERDUE), the Senator from Ne-
braska (Mr. SASSE), and the Senator
from Pennsylvania (Mr. TOOMEY).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH), the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Mr. MAR-
KEY), the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY), the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS), the Senator from Mas-
sachusetts (Ms. WARREN), and the Sen-
ator from Oregon (Mr. WYDEN) are nec-
essarily absent.
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 76,
nays 6, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 398 Leg.]
YEAS—76
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Durbin
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
King
Lankford
Leahy
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—6
Braun
Carper
Enzi
Gillibrand
Lee
Paul
NOT VOTING—18
Bennet
Booker
Cassidy
Daines
Duckworth
Graham
Harris
Isakson
Kennedy
Klobuchar
Markey
Merkley
Perdue
Sanders
Sasse
Toomey
Warren
Wyden
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 76, the nays are 6.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having voted in the af-
firmative, the motion is agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:35 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16DE6.039 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7043
December 16, 2019
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR
2020—CONFERENCE REPORT
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Cloture
having been invoked, the Senate will
resume legislative session on the con-
ference report to accompany S. 1790.
The Senator from Oklahoma.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, we are
here today to pass the NDAA, the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act. It
has just passed the procedural vote so
we are ready for the vote that is going
to take place tomorrow.
It is the 59th year in a row that we
will be passing the NDAA, and that is
because it is the most important bill
Congress will be doing all year and one
that fulfills our constitutional respon-
sibilities, and that is to defend Amer-
ica.
There is a document nobody reads
anymore that is called the Constitu-
tion. If you read that document, it tells
you what we are supposed to be doing
here, which is providing for the com-
mon defense or, simply put, defending
America and all who call it home.
This conference report does exactly
that. It is a testament to the good
work we can accomplish when we work
together, and I am talking about
Democrats and Republicans of both
parties in the House and Senate. The
bill has been a long time coming. We
started working on it last January, 11
months ago, holding hearings with
military leaders about what resources
they needed around the world. We
started drafting it not long after, and
in May we passed the bill out of our
committee. We passed the bill out of
committee by a 25-to-2 vote. That
doesn’t happen very often on big bills.
In June, we debated on the floor and
incorporated more than 90 bipartisan
amendments before it passed with an
overwhelming bipartisan vote of 86 to
8. Then we started the conference
where we have been working day in and
day out since September. This year, we
had twice the number of Big 4 meet-
ings. Now, Big 4 meetings are with a
Democrat and Republican from both
the House and Senate getting together
to iron out some of these problems, and
there were a lot of problems with this
bill. Anytime we have 90 bipartisan
amendments we are considering while
putting the bill together, that is a big
deal. We had twice the number of Big 4
meetings and more than twice the
number of staff-level meetings that we
normally have working our way
through over 1,500 provisions within
the bill.
I say this to remind everyone that
our committee and staff have been
working on this bill tirelessly for near-
ly a full year, and now we are going to
pass it. If I had to break it down, I
would say this year’s NDAA has two
big overarching principles. First, it re-
sources and aligns priorities to imple-
ment the blueprint for the National
Defense Strategy Commission. This is
it, the publication here, and this was
put together by Democrats and Repub-
licans a few years ago, laying out ex-
actly what we have to have to ade-
quately defend America.
We follow this blueprint. We are still
following it today, and it is working.
This bipartisan document outlines the
challenges we need to be prepared to
meet, namely, strategic competition
with China and Russia. This is some-
thing—and I don’t say this critically of
the previous administration, but Presi-
dent Obama’s priorities were not the
same as the priorities we normally had.
It was not defending America. There
were other projects he was concerned
with, and as a result of this, if you take
the last 5 years from 2010 to 2015, the
amount of money going to the military
from President Obama’s budget was re-
duced in that 5-year period by 25 per-
cent. Keep in mind, while that was re-
duced by 25 percent, China was increas-
ing their spending by 83 percent. That
has never happened before.
Accordingly, the conference report
funds the military at $738 billion, in
line with the bipartisan agreement I
just described. So we are sticking with
that. It is a good thing when you get a
chance to get everyone together. There
is always partisanship and all that, but
when you get an outline like this, it is
something that has worked and worked
well.
In addition, the NDAA authorizes $5.3
billion in emergency disaster recovery
to help military installations. Occa-
sionally, we have natural disasters. We
had them in Nebraska, Florida, and
North Carolina that inflicted great
damage on our military bases in those
areas.
The Space Force is the President’s
big deal. It will help protect space and
ensure America’s dominance in this
warfighting domain for years to come.
It is interesting also. There are those
who are criticizing it, and I had some
reluctance at first because we are
doing a good job in space. We have been
doing a pretty good job in space for
quite a while, but it is not all in one
area. There is a psychological compo-
nent. Our chief problems out there are
China and Russia. China and Russia
have their own space dominance in this
Space Force, and just the fact that we
don’t have one is something that made
people believe we didn’t have an inter-
est in the Space Force, and we are
going to dominate Space Force. This is
the first time we will have a new
branch in government in over 70 years.
The Space Force will help us protect
space and ensure American dominance
in the warfighting domain for years to
come.
To implement the national defense
strategy, the NDAA reframes its prior-
ities. It accelerates investment in ef-
forts to modernize our Armed Forces,
including creating hypersonic weapons,
5G, cyber, long-range missiles, and
areas where we are at risk.
I mention the hypersonic weapons.
That is the state of the art and what
we are doing right now. Prior to the
last administration, we were ahead in
hypersonic weapons. At the end of that
administration years later, China and
Russia were ahead. Now we are catch-
ing up. We are going to pass them. This
bill is going to be a way to do this.
The NDAA has strong support for nu-
clear modernization, preserving all
three legs of the triad to maintain
maximum deterrence against our ad-
versaries. Our triad has been con-
troversial for a long time, but it has
worked, and there are some who would
like to drop it down to just two forces
as opposed to three, but we want to
make sure we have the best. We want
to make sure we can win in a nuclear
battle.
It also provides needed reforms to the
way the Department of Defense does
business. An efficient, effective Pen-
tagon will help America retain and, in
some cases, regain the competitive
edge. We don’t have the competitive
edge around the world.
I talk to people around the country.
They always assume that America has
the best of everything, and there was a
time when we did. I think ever since
World War II we were in that situation,
but we have lost some of that edge, and
this is what we are going to do; we are
going to regain it.
The legislation also keeps President
Trump’s promise to continue rebuild-
ing the military. The legislation in-
vests its equipment, resources, and
training needed to restore American
readiness. These investments mean we
will have a larger Army, larger Navy, a
more agile Air Force and a more lethal
Marine Corps—a force that is ready to
deter or, if necessary, defeat any
threats that might come our way.
That is something a lot of people
think is extreme, but we are used to
that. We learned our lesson in World
War II. We have gone through several
conflicts since that time, and we are
not going to allow that to happen
again. We are going to keep all of these
forces strong. That is what the bill
does to rebuild our military and re-
align to be able to compete with Russia
and China.
You go through and see the changing
scenes all around the world. You go to
the South China Sea and see China
building islands out there. It is as if
they are preparing for World War III,
and some of our allies in that part of
the world are wondering what we are
doing. They don’t see us out there, but
we are. Now this bill puts us back in
the running.
I said this bill does two main things.
The second part is the bill really looks
out for our servicemembers and their
families. To tell the story of what we
do in that area is really to tell the
story of two courageous military
spouses. Those two military spouses
are Janna Driver and Jane Horton.
I have had the honor of knowing both
of these women who represent hun-
dreds of thousands of military spouses
around the country. About 1 year ago,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:18 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16DE6.044 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7044 December 16, 2019
Janna Driver reached out to me be-
cause she had housing. This all started
with privatizing housing. We privatized
housing and everything went right for
a few years and things started dropping
down. People got greedy. We had 14
contractors that were busy doing this.
Janna Driver was from Tinker Air
Force Base. I had the honor of knowing
her well because she came to me and
reached out to me to share the horrible
conditions she and her family were fac-
ing in their housing at Tinker Air
Force Base.
Let’s back up a little. Privatized
housing was something that was work-
ing, but things started slipping. Right
now, we have done a lot of work with
that. She told me about the mold in
her unit, and she couldn’t get a con-
tractor to fix it. We are talking about
1 of the 14 contractors that got the
awards. We started looking into the
problem and learned it was bigger than
we thought. When Janna Driver came
to me, we thought it was just at Tinker
Air Force Base, but after that we found
other places in Oklahoma. We have five
major military establishments in Okla-
homa, and we found they were all hav-
ing some of these problems. Then I
found out this was all over the Nation.
So this was a serious problem she
called to our attention.
We got to work, holding hearings and
inspecting homes and demanding an-
swers. As a result, the NDAA includes
a landmark overhaul of the military
privatized housing system. The legisla-
tion gives military families the tools
to demand accountability, and re-
engages military leadership. It is only
natural that a lot of the military lead-
ership would say: Well, we privatized
it. Now it is their problem, not our
problem. They kind of stepped aside.
Well, they are back in the fight again
to make sure contractors live up to
their end of the bargain and give mili-
tary families high-quality housing.
That was my experience with Janna
Driver.
Then there was Jane Horton. I men-
tioned there were two heroes I learned
to love over the years. In an event in
Collinsville, OK, a little bit north of
Tulsa, we had a townhall meeting over
there, and I was getting ready to go to
Afghanistan. This happened about 7
years ago. Jane Horton was there, the
wife of someone who was in the mili-
tary. As I was getting ready, and I
mentioned I was going to go to Afghan-
istan, she told me her husband Chris
was deployed there. I promised her I
would visit with him while I was there
in about a week’s time. I never got
that chance because Oklahoma Army
National Guard SPC Chris Horton was
killed on September 9, 2011. He was
only 26 years old.
After everything Jane Horton went
through after losing her husband, she
was then penalized by what we refer to
as the ‘‘widow’s tax’’—a dollar-for-dol-
lar offset of benefits as a Gold Star
spouse. She came to me, and we started
working on it together to repeal it.
Years after we restarted the process,
this year’s NDAA repeals the widow’s
tax in a fiscally responsible way. It
does it over a period of time that is
going to be doable.
That is a fraction of the benefits it
has for military families. The con-
ference report provides a 3.1-percent
pay raise for all troops. It is the largest
pay raise we have had in a decade. The
bill also improves access to childcare
on military installations.
It helps spouses transfer their profes-
sional licenses. Here is a problem peo-
ple don’t realize we have, and it is that
the military member is going to be
moved around every 2 or 3 years. When
that happens, the spouse will go with
the military member, but that spouse
may be a trained professional and
working as a second worker in the
household. The problem is, there are a
lot of States where nurses, for example,
if the spouse is a nurse, they have to
wait for 1 or 2 years’ residency before
they can actually practice in the State.
Those are little things that nobody
really thought of, and it is kind of dis-
criminatory against our military. So
that problem is not going to exist any-
more.
The bill continues critical reforms to
fight sexual assault—we hear a lot
about sexual assault—and misconduct
and works to improve the military
healthcare system. This bill does a lot.
I have heard people say—there are
people around, people who are actually
in this body who don’t really think we
have a real obligation to spend so much
time and money on our military. In
fact, I have heard people say so many
times: Well, wait a minute. The United
States spends more money than China
and Russia put together. That is true,
but you have to realize why that is.
We were just talking about housing.
You know, China and Russia are com-
munist countries. They don’t care
about helping people with housing.
They don’t care about healthcare for
their people. All they do is give them
an AK–47 to go out and kill people. The
vast majority of what we spend on our
military is spent on our people; other
countries don’t do that. They say you
recruit a servicemember, but you re-
tain a family by making our NDAA
dedicated not only to the warfighter
but also to their families.
Lastly, there are a few other provi-
sions outside of the jurisdiction of the
Armed Services Committee, and they
are worth highlighting in this bill. This
has been happening now for 59 years.
One of the reasons is that this is a bill
that everybody knows is going to pass.
I had doubts this year that it definitely
was going to pass, but it did. A lot of
people have difficulty getting some-
thing passed during the regular session
but wait until the Defense authoriza-
tion bill comes up, and then they will
put it on there as an amendment. We
have a lot of examples.
There is the MARAD authorization.
That is the maritime authorization.
Senator WICKER from Mississippi put
that in. He is the chairman of the Com-
merce Committee. Then we had the in-
telligence reauthorization. Senator
BURR is the chairman of that com-
mittee. We have that as a part of this
bill. Sanctions designed to punish
Syria, Russia, North Korea, China, and
all those countries, that would really
be in the Foreign Relations Com-
mittee. Senator RISCH is the chairman
of that committee. It is in this bill.
So the result is this is a good bill,
and now we are going to pass it. This is
the 59th year in a row we have passed
the NDAA. It is one of the few author-
ization bills that passes year after
year, and that is because everyone
knows how important it is. It usually
doesn’t get bogged down in partisan
fighting.
This year, the process of getting to
our final conference report was cer-
tainly tougher than most years. The
first bill that came out of the House,
there wasn’t one Republican who voted
for it on the floor, and they ended up
supporting it. That is the way it hap-
pened this year. There were some mo-
ments we weren’t sure we were going
to be able to get one. It took a few
months of hard-fought negotiations,
but the end result is getting a bill that
we are proud of.
I thank Congressman SMITH and Con-
gressman THORNBERRY from the House
and, most importantly, Senator REED.
Senator REED is my counterpart. I am
the chairman of the committee, and he
is the ranking member of the com-
mittee. We worked together, and I am
talking about hours and hours. My wife
and I have been married now 60 years
tomorrow. I saw more of Senator REED
during this time than I saw my own
wife. We had a lot of time together
working on things. We worked together
on the controversial things, and they
worked. We were successful.
I also thank the members of the
Armed Services Committee who put in
good work to make sure the bill sup-
ports the military community and
keeps America safe. I want to thank
President Trump for his leadership in
support of the legislation, especially
the Space Force. I look forward to him
signing this into law immediately.
I would be remiss if I didn’t thank
the Armed Services Committee staff,
especially the staff directors John
Bonsell, for the majority; Liz King, for
the minority; and my personal staff,
who have worked countless hours to
bring this bill to the floor today. Also
under them, from the majority, we
have 33 members of the Senate Armed
Services Committee, and I think 15
members from the minority. That is a
total of 48 members.
I ask unanimous consent to have
printed in the RECORD all 48 names of
those heroes who participated.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
From my staff from the Senate Armed
Services Committee: John Wason, Tom
Goffus, Stephanie Barna, Greg Lilly, Rick
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:18 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16DE6.046 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7045
December 16, 2019
Berger, Marta Hernandez, Jennie Wright,
Adam Barker, Augusta Binns-Berkey, Al
Edwards, Jackie Kerber, Sean O’Keefe, Tony
Pankuch, Brad Patout, Jason Potter, J.R.
Riordan, Katie Sutton, Eric Trager, Dustin
Walker, Otis Winkler, Gwyneth Woolwine,
Katie Magnus, Arthur Tellis, Leah Brewer,
Debbie Chiarello, Gary Howard, Tyler
Wilkinson, John Bryant, Patty-Jane Geller,
Baher Iskander, Keri-Lyn Michalke, Jackie
Modesett, Soleil Sykes.
And from the minority: Jody Bennett,
Carolyn Chuhta, Jon Clark, Jonathan Ep-
stein, Jorie Feldman, Creighton Greene,
Ozge Guzelsu, Gary Leeling, Kirk McConnell,
Maggie McNamara, Bill Monahan, Mike
Noblet, John Quirk, Arun Seraphin, Fiona
Tomlin.
Mr. INHOFE. From my personal
staff, we had Luke Holland, Andrew
Forbes, Dan Hillenbrand, Jake Hinch,
Don Archer, Kyle Stewart, Bryan
Brody, Esther Salters, Devin Barrett,
Leacy Burke, Wendi Price, Laurie
Fitch, Whitney Folluo, Mark Powers,
Brandon Ellis, and Charlotte Mitchell.
And the floor staff, they are always
back there. They work on all the bills,
but they dropped everything to make
this a reality: Laura Dove, Robert Dun-
can, Chris Tuck, Megan Mercer, Tony
Hanagan, Katherine Foster, Brian Can-
field, and Abigail Baker.
Now, let’s vote on this conference re-
port, and let’s have the vote be so over-
whelming that there isn’t a military
family in America who could doubt our
commitment to them. Let’s use our
vote to send a message as well to Rus-
sia and China that we are revitalizing
American power so we can win the
competition for influence that will
shape the kind of world our children
and grandchildren are going to live in.
Kay and I have 20 kids and grandkids.
They are the ones I am concerned
about, as well as your kids and
grandkids. We are not going to win
with a strong military alone, but we
will lose without one. That is what this
NDAA will do: revitalize American
military power so we can achieve our
vision of a safe, prosperous, and free
world. That is what this is all about.
That is what we are going to do.
Merry Christmas.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN). The Senator from North Da-
kota.
Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I rise
today to speak about the National De-
fense Authorization Act. I want to
begin by thanking the chairman of the
Armed Services Committee and also
his ranking member, Senator JACK
REED. I think Senator INHOFE and Sen-
ator REED have both shown tremendous
leadership on behalf of our men and
women in uniform, working together in
a bipartisan way.
The Presiding Officer, as a member of
our military still today, can certainly
vouch for the importance of this legis-
lation. The way they worked together
and got this done, I think, is exactly
the way people would want the chair-
man and ranking member of the Armed
Services Committee to work on behalf
of our military. So I thank the good
Senator from Oklahoma and his rank-
ing member. It is really an outstanding
effort.
This is a very important piece of leg-
islation. Of course, it is something that
we need to get done on behalf of our
military, the finest men and women in
uniform in the world. This is an incred-
ibly important support. I thank not
only the chairman and the ranking
member, but I also thank all of my col-
leagues on the Armed Services Com-
mittee for their diligence and for their
efforts to reach a conference agree-
ment on this National Defense Author-
ization Act. This is a critical piece of
legislation that supports our Armed
Forces.
This year, the conference agreed to
$738 billion in overall funding author-
ization. I am a member of the Defense
Appropriations Committee, so I work
on the other side of the equation to
make sure that those authorizations
are funded. Obviously, this includes nu-
merous provisions and investments
that build readiness, modernize our
force, and preserve our status as the
world’s preeminent military power.
In addition to providing a 3.1-percent
pay raise for our men and women in
uniform—the largest increase in nearly
a decade—the agreement also includes
important provisions to support our
servicemembers and veterans. I am
proud to have worked on some of those
and backed, of course, not only those
provisions but other provisions that
make this very good legislation for our
men and women in uniform.
Similar to legislation I helped intro-
duce earlier this year, the NDAA ex-
tends TRICARE Reserve Select eligi-
bility to all guardsmen and reservists,
including those who also are Federal
employees. That is effective beginning
January 1, 2030. That is something that
I know members of our Guard and Re-
serve felt was very important.
It also includes the Military Widow’s
Tax Elimination Act, which repeals the
current military widow’s tax to ensure
that surviving military spouses receive
their full survivor benefits.
Another bipartisan bill that I wrote
together with the Senator from New
Hampshire, Mrs. JEANNE SHAHEEN, the
Air Traffic Controller Hiring Reform
Act of 2019, is included in this legisla-
tion as well. It enables the FAA to
prioritize the hiring of veterans and
graduates of FAA-Certified Collegiate
Training Initiative schools, like the
University of North Dakota John D.
Odegard School of Aviation and Aero-
space, and it removes the current 10-
percent hiring pool limitation. That is
very important for our universities
that provide training in air traffic con-
trol, and it is very important for the
FAA and for the safety of aviation in
our country, making sure that we have
qualified air traffic controllers out
there managing air traffic in the na-
tional airspace.
The NDAA also includes several more
important measures that I was pleased
to cosponsor, one that helps ensure
that the children of National Guard
and Reserve members have access to
additional support services in school,
as well as another provision that cor-
rects the disparity in the U.S. Bank-
ruptcy Code to protect veterans’ bene-
fits in the event they file for bank-
ruptcy.
There are many other important pri-
orities in this legislation that go to my
particular State, whether it is the MQ–
9 program that our National Guard
runs out of Hector Field in Fargo or
whether it is the Global Hawk’s mis-
sion at the Grand Forks Air Force Base
or the B–52 and ICBM mission at Minot
Air Force Base. All of these installa-
tions and our Guard, of course, play an
incredibly important part in terms of
the overall defense of our country, as
well as so many other aspects.
Things that we have come to rely on,
whether it is flood, fire, hurricane, or
anything else, who do you turn to first?
It is always the National Guard. They
are always there, and they are always
ready. Of course, they do an amazing
job when we send them overseas or in
any military capacity, but they do
such an amazing job for us in so many
other situations. Like I said, in any
kind of disaster, fire, flood, or emer-
gency, they are there for us.
The NDAA legislation also includes
an amendment that I sponsored that
requires the Air Force and the Na-
tional Nuclear Security Administra-
tion to regularly report on their
progress in developing the new ICBM
and replacing its warhead. This meas-
ure will foster interagency cooperation
and in turn help ensure the replace-
ment for the Minuteman III is on
schedule.
Not only do we need to authorize
these programs, but, as I said, we also
need to provide the funding for them as
well, which we do through Defense ap-
propriations. As the Presiding Officer
knows, we will be taking up that legis-
lation soon, as well. That is the other
side of the coin, that we need to make
sure we get done this week, in a timely
way, for the full year so that our mili-
tary knows they have not only the au-
thorization but the funding to move
forward with these programs.
There is no question that we have the
finest military in the world and that
we have the finest men and women who
put everything on the line for us to
serve in that military. We need to
make sure we not only get these pro-
grams authorized, but that we fully ap-
propriate the funding for those pro-
grams to support our tremendous men
and women in uniform. There is no way
for us to say thank you enough for all
they do, but it is very important that
we get our job done here and provide
this very important support for them.
With that, I thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing the provisions of rule XXII, at
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE6.001 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7046 December 16, 2019
11:45 a.m. on Tuesday, December 17, all
postcloture time be considered expired
on the conference report to accompany
S. 1790 and that the Senate vote on the
pending motion to waive the budget
act, if applicable, prior to a vote on
adoption of the conference report.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak for
up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
DEBBIE SMITH ACT OF 2019
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
have long maintained that rape victims
shouldn’t have to wait years for jus-
tice, and that is why I supported the
original version of the Debbie Smith
Act when the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee originated it more than 15 years
ago. I am delighted that we last week
reached a compromise enabling Con-
gress to send another 5-year reauthor-
ization of the Debbie Smith Act to the
President’s desk this year.
Congress has generously funded the
program authorized by this statute at
roughly $100 million annually since its
inception. Unfortunately, however, we
have seen repeated media reports that
a backlog of untested sexual assault
evidence persists in many States, and
the Justice Department, which admin-
isters this formula grant program, has
not done enough to tackle persistent
issues with the program’s implementa-
tion.
These reports concerned me, and at a
2016 meeting of the Judiciary Com-
mittee, I began voicing questions about
whether rape victims were truly the
top priority under our DNA Capacity
and Backlog Enhancement Program. I
also questioned whether additional
oversight was needed. I insisted at this
time that transparency requirements
be added to the Justice for All Act re-
authorization prior to its passage by
the full Senate. These changes, which I
later offered as a floor amendment and
which the Senate accepted by voice
vote in 2016, ensure that the Justice
Department collects and reports more
data about how Federal grant funds are
being spent.
In 2017, I also called on a government
watchdog agency to assess the progress
we have made in reducing backlogs of
untested DNA evidence in sexual as-
sault kits since the enactment of the
Debbie Smith Act grant program. Last
year, as chairman of the Judiciary
Committee, I also convened an over-
sight hearing to review Congress’ bil-
lion-dollar investment in the DNA
backlog program, which makes Federal
resources available each year for crime
laboratories across the country to ana-
lyze untested DNA evidence collected
from crime scenes and convicted of-
fenders.
The Government Accountability Of-
fice, or GAO, testified at last year’s
congressional hearing that we still
don’t know with certainty that this
program is working. GAO explained—
and this year reconfirmed in the final
report prepared by GAO at my re-
quest—that the Justice Department
has yet to articulate measurable pro-
gram-wide goals for the grant program
authorized by the Debbie Smith Act,
making it difficult to assess and verify
State grantees’ performance. GAO
raised similar concerns in a 2013 report
on this national program. GAO also
suggested the need for the Justice De-
partment to implement additional
steps to prevent lobbying-related con-
flicts of interest.
This year, I developed additional pro-
posed reforms in response to the issues
that GAO and others raised. I want to
thank Penny Nance of Concerned
Women for America, who testified at
my invitation at last year’s Judiciary
Committee hearing, for suggesting cer-
tain changes to ensure that the anal-
ysis of sexual assault evidence is ac-
corded a higher priority by grantees.
This statutory reform is essential, be-
cause most States impose a statutory
deadline by which crimes of sexual vio-
lence must be prosecuted. Changes sug-
gested by her organization, for which I
have advocated since 2016, were incor-
porated into the Debbie Smith Act re-
authorization bill by the Senate spon-
sor, Senator CORNYN, with my support.
The House of Representatives also ac-
cepted these changes this year.
Additional reforms I proposed to the
program this year, based on GAO’s
findings and suggestions, cleared the
Judiciary Committee as an amendment
to the Debbie Smith Act during our
committee’s consideration of the 2019
reauthorization. The full Senate later
approved the reauthorization, includ-
ing these reforms, by voice vote, but
the House of Representatives declined
to accept all of them. If enacted, the
changes opposed by the House would
require both that the Justice Depart-
ment articulate measurable, program-
wide goals and that the National Insti-
tute of Justice take additional steps to
prevent lobbying-related conflicts of
interest. They would not resolve every
issue with the DNA backlog program,
but I believe their enactment would
substantially strengthen the program.
Because the House of Representatives
dropped the GAO-backed reforms that
the Senate approved by voice vote, I
imposed a hold on the other Chamber’s
reauthorization measure this month. I
then called on the Attorney General to
implement my proposed reforms
through administrative action. I thank
the Attorney General for almost imme-
diately agreeing to do so. Rather than
indefinitely hold up the extension of
the Debbie Smith Act, I lifted my hold
on the bill last week, and I will con-
tinue to conduct oversight to ensure
that these reforms are implemented as
promised by the executive branch.
At this time, I want to thank Sen-
ator CORNYN for his efforts to advance
the 2019 reauthorization, which I co-
sponsored, and for cosigning my De-
cember 2019 letter to the Attorney Gen-
eral.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that this letter and Attorney Gen-
eral’s response be included in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD. I am hopeful that
this bipartisan measure can be ap-
proved today by voice vote and sent to
President Trumps’ desk this week for
signature.
f
BATTLE OF THE BULGE
Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, today’s
75th anniversary of the beginning of
the Battle of the Bulge presents an op-
portunity to honor the heroism of the
Allied forces who fought in this last
major German offensive in Western Eu-
rope during World War II. More than
650,000 troops from the United States,
Great Britain, Belgium, Canada, and
other countries fought in this battle to
defeat Nazi Germany. These soldiers
bravely fought for 38 days from Decem-
ber 16, 1944, to January 25, 1945, and
their victory made possible the final
defeat and surrender of Germany in
May 1945.
More than 40 Senate colleagues
joined in cosponsoring S. Con Res. 23,
which my West Virginia colleague, Mr.
MANCHIN, and I introduced and the Sen-
ate passed last week to remember the
significance of this historic battle.
The Battle of the Bulge was an at-
tempt by the Germans to split the Al-
lied forces and pressure them to seek a
negotiated peace. These troops, located
in the Ardennes region of Belgium and
Luxembourg, were greatly out-
numbered by the German Army as they
faced harsh weather conditions and
treacherous and unknown terrain.
It is difficult to comprehend the mas-
sive losses incurred from this one bat-
tle—including 89,000 American casual-
ties. Nineteen thousand American sol-
diers made the ultimate sacrifice, with
another 47,500 wounded and more than
23,000 captured or missing in action.
Other nations suffered great losses as
well. Belgium lost more than 74,000 ci-
vilians, in addition to many more who
suffered through other atrocities that
come with war. They persevered
through this dark time and rebuilt
their lives the best way they could
after the war ended.
In the decades since, the citizens of
Belgium and Luxembourg have gener-
ously hosted thousands of U.S. vet-
erans as they have kept the memory of
the Battle of the Bulge alive through
numerous memorials and museums.
Among them has been one of North Da-
kota’s most distinguished World War II
veterans, Lynn Aas of Minot.
Mr. Aas enlisted in the U.S. Army in
August 1942 at the age of 21 and was
called into service in March 1943. He
was assigned to the 193rd Glider Regi-
ment in the 17th Airborne Division. Ar-
riving in England in August 1944, he
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16DE6.047 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7047
December 16, 2019
mastered glider-use techniques and was
deployed in France on December 24. He
first went to Camp Mourmelon, fol-
lowed by Charleville-Mézières, where
his division was attached to George
Patton’s U.S. Third Army. There, he
was among those ordered to defend a
30-mile defensive position along the
Meuse River whose mission was to pre-
vent the German advance in the Bel-
gian Ardennes area.
On January 5, 1945, Private First
Class Aas crossed the Belgian border
and settled in a wooded area near Bas-
togne. Combat ensued 2 days later as
the Battle of the Bulge was raging. The
fighting was so intense the area be-
came forever known as Dead Man’s
Ridge. As he and his unit continued to
advance toward Luxembourg, they
pushed enemy lines back towards the
Siegfried Line.
In February, after the battle had
ended and after weeks of combat in ex-
ceptionally harsh conditions, he re-
turned to France to Camp Châlons-sur-
Marne. He was reassigned to the 194th
Glider Infantry after his regiment dis-
banded because of heavy casualties Pri-
vate First Class Aas helped prepare for
the airborne operation Varsity. On
March 24, he left Coulommiers and
landed in Germany near Wesel to help
capture Rhine bridges and secure towns
to protect Allied ground forces. The
following day he was wounded by
shrapnel and was hospitalized in Bel-
gium and then Paris, where he spent
several weeks recovering.
Private First Class Aas returned to
North Dakota following the war,
earned his law degree from the Univer-
sity of North Dakota, and served in the
State legislature for four sessions. To
this day, he remains a community
leader in Minot. He is one of the best
examples of the thousands of World
War II veterans we proudly call ‘‘the
greatest generation.’’
For his valorous conduct in action,
Mr. Aas has received prestigious dis-
tinctions, including the Purple Heart
Medal, the Bronze Star Medal for he-
roic and meritorious service in Bel-
gium, as well as the Luxembourg Medal
of Honor and the honorific diploma of
Citizen of Utah Beach—Sainte-Marie-
du-Mont / Citoyen d’Utah Beach—
Sainte-Marie-du-Mont. It was my
honor in October 2017 to join French
Consul General Lacroix, who made a
special trip to Minot to present
France’s highest military recognition,
the Legion of Honor, to Mr. Aas, who
was then 96 years old.
Mr. President, as we remember this
75th anniversary of the Battle of the
Bulge, let us once again remember and
honor the heroism and sacrifices of our
American soldiers, who paved the way
for victory in World War II and for our
freedom today.
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
90TH ANNIVERSARY OF HAWAIIAN
AIRLINES
∑ Mr. SCHATZ. Mr. President, 90 years
ago, Inter-Island Airways launched the
first scheduled commercial passenger
air service in Hawaii. Now known as
Hawaiian Airlines, it is our State’s
largest and longest serving airline. Its
fleet of 67 aircrafts flies between our is-
lands and connects Hawaii to the main-
land and around the world.
As a State comprised of islands, safe,
reliable air service is critical to the
movement of people and goods. Wheth-
er it is transporting people and cargo
for leisure, medical appointments,
business, cultural and sports events or
carrying fresh produce, equipment, or
other supplies, Hawaiian has and will
continue to be a major part of our
highways in the sky.
From its modest beginnings—a $3-
per-person sightseeing tour on a five-
passenger plane—Hawaiian transported
11.8 million passengers and 92,000 tons
of cargo last year alone. Today, Hawai-
ian is one of the largest employers in
the State, with more than 7,300 em-
ployees across its network, including
some 6,600 who live in Hawaii.
Its impact is felt beyond jobs. Every
year, Hawaiian and its employees part-
ner with and help support hundreds of
nonprofit organizations. As one exam-
ple, Hawaiian leads a mentorship pro-
gram that promotes aviation careers
and provides students with hands-on
learning about all aspects of the indus-
try.
I am particularly proud of the steps
Hawaiian has taken to adopt eco-
friendlier practices throughout its op-
erations to improve fuel efficiency, re-
duce carbon emissions, and cut waste.
In 2018, despite continuing to grow, Ha-
waiian lowered annual jet fuel burn by
7 million gallons and reduced annual
carbon output by 86,300 metric tons. It
is also contributing toward climate re-
search by collecting air samples over
the Pacific Ocean. The data is used as
part of an international effort to meas-
ure climate change and air quality.
On behalf of the Hawaii congressional
delegation, I wish to congratulate Ha-
waiian Airlines on its 90th anniversary
and wish them continued success in
serving the travel needs of our resi-
dents and introducing Hawaii to the
world.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO WALTER GRAFF
∑ Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I rise
today to salute Walter Graff for his
many years of dedicated service and
forward-looking leadership at the Ap-
palachian Mountain Club, AMC. Walter
will soon retire from his role as senior
vice president, the capstone to a career
at AMC that began 45 years ago as a
program manager in the mountains of
northern New Hampshire. He leaves a
legacy worthy of our praise and our
gratitude.
The Appalachian Mountain Club is a
nearly century-and-a-half old organiza-
tion with a mission of connecting peo-
ple to the outdoors. Its staff and many
supporters not only encourage people
to explore the natural world through
activities like hiking, paddling, cy-
cling, and skiing. They are also at the
forefront of conservation efforts that
seek to protect our forests, mountains,
rivers, and trails for future generations
to enjoy and cherish.
When Walter Graff was hired by the
AMC in July of 1974, he spent his first
months on the job screening environ-
mental films for guests at what was
then called Pinkham Notch Camp. The
AMC was a much smaller organization
back then with a few professional posi-
tions in New Hampshire and adminis-
trative services in Boston. But Walter
had big dreams and an ambitious vision
for the organization. He approached
the Pinkham hutmaster at the end of
the summer with the hope of devel-
oping a workshop program. He got
signoff, as well as an excuse to venture
outdoors. What began as a couple class-
es on topics like equipment mainte-
nance and snowshoeing has since blos-
somed into one of the largest outdoor
education programs in New England.
Walter has held many titles within
AMC since that summer 45 years ago.
His colleagues note that his leadership
has touched every facet of AMC’s mis-
sion. As director of education, he was
influential in launching the group’s re-
nowned outdoor skills and leadership
training program. As head of the
AMC’s Maine Woods Initiative, he was
responsible for developing a program
that promotes outdoor recreation, pro-
tects natural resources, encourages re-
sponsible forestry and deepens commu-
nity partnerships. To date, the pro-
gram is responsible for purchasing and
permanently conserving 70,000 acres of
forestland and creating over 120 miles
of recreational trails.
As he nears his retirement, Walter is
fond of looking to the past to see how
much AMC has grown and how acces-
sible our mountains, rivers, and lakes
are to people across the region. He
drives through the White Mountains
and sees once-empty parking lots now
full of people exploring the richness of
the natural world. Yet Walter is also
looking to the future as he approaches
his final day as an AMC employee. He
knows he will remain connected to the
outdoors and will continue caring for
the planet.
On behalf of the people of New Hamp-
shire, I ask my colleagues and all
Americans to join me in thanking Wal-
ter Graff for his years of service and
wishing him all the best in the years
ahead.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message from the President of the
United States was communicated to
the Senate by Mr. Kalbaugh, one of his
secretaries.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:35 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16DE6.003 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7048 December 16, 2019
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE
LEGISLATION AND SUPPORTING
DOCUMENTS TO IMPLEMENT THE
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA
AGREEMENT, RECEIVED DURING
ADJOURNMENT OF THE SENATE
ON DECEMBER 13, 2019—PM 39
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with accompanying
reports and papers; which was referred
to the Committee on Finance:
To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit legislation
and supporting documents to imple-
ment the United States-Mexico-Canada
Agreement (the ‘‘Agreement’’). The
Agreement is an important part of my
Administration’s efforts to rebalance
trade in North America and to mod-
ernize our trade relationship with Mex-
ico and Canada. The Agreement will
create significant new opportunities
for American workers, farmers, ranch-
ers, and businesses by opening markets
in Canada and Mexico and eliminating
barriers to United States goods, serv-
ices, and investment.
Approving this Agreement is in our
national interest. I look forward to the
Congress expeditiously approving the
legislation.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, December 13, 2019.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 3:03 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bill, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 3. An act to establish a fair price ne-
gotiation program, protect the Medicare pro-
gram from excessive price increases, and es-
tablish an out-of-pocket maximum for Medi-
care part D enrollees, and for other purposes.
The message further announced that
effective December 16, 2019, pursuant to
section 2 of the Civil Rights Commis-
sion Amendments Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C.
1975), and the order of the House of
January 3, 2019, and upon recommenda-
tion of the Minority Leader, the Speak-
er reappoints the following individual
on the part of the House of Representa-
tives to the Commission on Civil
Rights for a term expiring December
15, 2025: Mr. Peter N. Kirsanow of
Cleveland, Ohio.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment:
S. 2513. A bill to provide for joint reports
by relevant Federal agencies to Congress re-
garding incidents of terrorism, and for other
purposes (Rept. No. 116–175).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute:
H.R. 135. A bill to amend the Notification
and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination
and Retaliation Act of 2002 to strengthen
Federal antidiscrimination laws enforced by
the Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission and expand accountability within
the Federal Government, and for other pur-
poses (Rept. No. 116–176).
f
EXECUTIVE REPORT OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive report of a
nomination was submitted:
By Mr. BLUNT for the Committee on Rules
and Administration.
* J. Brett Blanton, of Virginia, to be Archi-
tect of the Capitol for the term of ten years.
* Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Mr.
WYDEN, and Mr. MCCONNELL) (by re-
quest):
S. 3052. A bill to implement the Agreement
between the United States of America, the
United Mexican States, and Canada attached
as an Annex to the Protocol Replacing the
North American Free Trade Agreement; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. ENZI (for himself and Mr.
TESTER):
S. 3053. A bill to provide for the regulation,
inspection, and labeling of food produced
using animal cell culture technology, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself, Mr.
REED, and Mr. BRAUN):
S. 3054. A bill to establish that a State-
based education loan program is excluded
from certain requirements relating to a pre-
ferred lender arrangement; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and
Mr. REED):
S. 3055. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to permit a Federal stu-
dent loan borrower to elect to terminate re-
payment pursuant to income-based repay-
ment and repay such loan under any other
repayment plan for which the borrower is
otherwise eligible; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. REED, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. STABENOW,
Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and
Ms. BALDWIN):
S. 3056. A bill to designate as wilderness
certain Federal portions of the red rock can-
yons of the Colorado Plateau and the Great
Basin Deserts in the State of Utah for the
benefit of present and future generations of
people in the United States; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mr.
CASEY):
S. 3057. A bill to modernize the Older
Americans Act of 1965, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions .
By Mr. DURBIN:
S. 3058. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to establish fair and con-
sistent eligibility requirements for graduate
medical schools operating outside the United
States and Canada; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN:
S. 3059. A bill to amend the Fair Housing
Act to establish that certain conduct, in or
around a dwelling, shall be considered to be
severe or pervasive for purposes of deter-
mining whether a certain type of sexual har-
assment has occurred under that Act, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Ms. MCSALLY:
S. 3060. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Interior to establish a pilot program for
commercial recreation concessions on cer-
tain land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN:
S. 3061. A bill to provide protection for sur-
vivors of domestic violence or sexual assault
under the Fair Housing Act; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 296
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) were
added as cosponsors of S. 296, a bill to
amend XVIII of the Social Security Act
to ensure more timely access to home
health services for Medicare bene-
ficiaries under the Medicare program.
S. 340
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS), the Senator from Rhode
Island (Mr. REED), the Senator from
Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) and the Senator
from Massachusetts (Mr. MARKEY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 340, a bill to
promote competition in the market for
drugs and biological products by facili-
tating the timely entry of lower-cost
generic and biosimilar versions of
those drugs and biological products.
S. 518
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 518, a bill to amend title XVIII
of the Social Security Act to provide
for Medicare coverage of certain
lymphedema compression treatment
items as items of durable medical
equipment.
S. 633
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 633, a bill to award a Con-
gressional Gold Medal to the members
of the Women’s Army Corps who were
assigned to the 6888th Central Postal
Directory Battalion, known as the ‘‘Six
Triple Eight’’.
S. 684
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
name of the Senator from Kentucky
(Mr. PAUL) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 684, a bill to amend the Internal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:35 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE6.010 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7049
December 16, 2019
Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the ex-
cise tax on high-cost employer-spon-
sored health coverage.
S. 701
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 701, a bill to amend the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act to reau-
thorize the Chesapeake Bay Program,
and for other purposes.
S. 785
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
785, a bill to improve mental health
care provided by the Department of
Veterans Affairs, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 846
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) and the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 846, a bill to
amend title 49, United States Code, to
limit certain rolling stock procure-
ments, and for other purposes.
S. 892
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
names of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST), the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) and the Senator from
Florida (Mr. SCOTT) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 892, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively,
to the women in the United States who
joined the workforce during World War
II, providing the aircraft, vehicles,
weaponry, ammunition, and other ma-
terials to win the war, that were re-
ferred to as ‘‘Rosie the Riveter’’, in
recognition of their contributions to
the United States and the inspiration
they have provided to ensuing genera-
tions.
S. 1263
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1263, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to establish
an interagency task force on the use of
public lands to provide medical treat-
ment and therapy to veterans through
outdoor recreation.
S. 1590
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) and the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1590, a bill to amend
the State Department Basic Authori-
ties Act of 1956 to authorize rewards for
thwarting wildlife trafficking linked to
transnational organized crime, and for
other purposes.
S. 1820
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1820, a bill to improve the
integrity and safety of horseracing by
requiring a uniform anti-doping and
medication control program to be de-
veloped and enforced by an independent
Horseracing Anti-Doping and Medica-
tion Control Authority.
S. 1908
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added
as a cosponsor of S. 1908, a bill to
amend the Richard B. Russell National
School Lunch Act to improve the effi-
ciency of summer meals.
S. 1918
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
PERDUE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1918, a bill to amend the Richard B.
Russell National School Lunch Act to
require alternative options for summer
food service program delivery.
S. 1954
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI) was added as
a cosponsor of S. 1954, a bill to require
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint
commemorative coins in recognition of
the 75th anniversary of the integration
of baseball.
S. 2085
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Mr.
SCHATZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2085, a bill to authorize the Secretary
of Education to award grants to eligi-
ble entities to carry out educational
programs about the Holocaust, and for
other purposes.
S. 2160
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the names of the Senator
from Missouri (Mr. BLUNT), the Senator
from Virginia (Mr. KAINE) and the Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY)
were added as cosponsors of S. 2160, a
bill to require carbon monoxide alarms
in certain federally assisted housing,
and for other purposes.
S. 2238
At the request of Mr. KING, his name
was added as a cosponsor of S. 2238, a
bill to protect elections for public of-
fice by providing financial support and
enhanced security for the infrastruc-
ture used to carry out such elections,
and for other purposes.
S. 2259
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) and the Senator from
Wisconsin (Ms. BALDWIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2259, a bill to amend
the Family Violence Prevention and
Services Act to make improvements.
S. 2282
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) and the Senator from Alaska
(Mr. SULLIVAN) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 2282, a bill to amend the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance
Act to enable Indian Tribes and trib-
ally designated housing entities to
apply for, receive, and administer
grants and subgrants under the Con-
tinuum of Care Program of the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.
S. 2599
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2599, a bill to amend the De-
partment of Agriculture Reorganiza-
tion Act of 1994 to provide assistance to
manage farmer and rancher stress and
for the mental health of individuals in
rural areas, and for other purposes.
S. 2627
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from New Jer-
sey (Mr. BOOKER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2627, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow
an above-the-line deduction for attor-
ney fees and costs in connection with
civil claim awards.
S. 2652
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2652, a bill to amend title 49,
United States Code, to provide that
only citizens or nationals of the United
States may operate trains within the
United States that originate in Mexico.
S. 2726
At the request of Mr. KING, his name
was added as a cosponsor of S. 2726, a
bill to amend the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 to provide for the
treatment of payments for child care
and other personal use services as an
authorized campaign expenditure, and
for other purposes.
S. 2733
At the request of Mr. ROMNEY, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2733, a bill to save and strengthen crit-
ical social contract programs of the
Federal Government.
S. 2815
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2815, a bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in com-
memoration of the National Purple
Heart Honor Mission.
S. 2920
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2920, a bill to reauthorize the Vio-
lence Against Women Act of 1994, and
for other purposes.
S. 2958
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added
as a cosponsor of S. 2958, a bill to pro-
vide the Food and Drug Administration
with authority to conduct microbial
sampling on concentrated animal feed-
ing operations as necessary to facili-
tate a foodborne illness outbreak inves-
tigation, determine the root cause of
an outbreak of foodborne illness, or ad-
dress other public health needs.
S. 3031
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 3031, a bill to amend the Immi-
gration and Nationality Act to add
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:56 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE6.011 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7050 December 16, 2019
membership in a significant
transnational criminal organization to
the list of grounds of inadmissibility
and to prohibit the provision of mate-
rial support or resources to such orga-
nizations.
S. 3047
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 3047, a bill to amend the Energy Pol-
icy Act of 2005 to require the Secretary
of Energy to establish a carbon tech-
nologies program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 3049
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ), the Senator from
Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS), the Senator
from Colorado (Mr. BENNET) and the
Senator from North Carolina (Mr.
TILLIS) were added as cosponsors of S.
3049, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for cer-
tain amendments relating to reporting
requirements with respect to clinical
diagnostic laboratory tests, and for
other purposes.
S. 3051
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER), the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. CARDIN), the Senator
from West Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and
the Senator from Maryland (Mr. VAN
HOLLEN) were added as cosponsors of S.
3051, a bill to improve protections for
wildlife, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 450
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 450, a resolution rec-
ognizing the 71st anniversary of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights
and the celebration of ‘‘Human Rights
Day’’.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTION
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. REED, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, and Ms. BALDWIN):
S. 3056. A bill to designate as wilder-
ness certain Federal portions of the red
rock canyons of the Colorado Plateau
and the Great Basin Deserts in the
State of Utah for the benefit of present
and future generations of people in the
United States; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 3056
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘America’s Red Rock Wilderness Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents of this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
TITLE I—DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS
AREAS
Sec. 101. Great Basin Wilderness Areas.
Sec. 102. Grand Staircase-Escalante Wilder-
ness Areas.
Sec. 103. Moab-La Sal Canyons Wilderness
Areas.
Sec. 104. Henry Mountains Wilderness Areas.
Sec. 105. Glen Canyon Wilderness Areas.
Sec. 106. San Juan-Anasazi Wilderness
Areas.
Sec. 107. Canyonlands Basin Wilderness
Areas.
Sec. 108. San Rafael Swell Wilderness Areas.
Sec. 109. Book Cliffs and Uinta Basin Wilder-
ness Areas.
TITLE II—ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
Sec. 201. General provisions.
Sec. 202. Administration.
Sec. 203. State school trust land within wil-
derness areas.
Sec. 204. Water.
Sec. 205. Roads.
Sec. 206. Livestock.
Sec. 207. Fish and wildlife.
Sec. 208. Management of newly acquired
land.
Sec. 209. Withdrawal.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of the Interior, acting
through the Bureau of Land Management.
(2) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Utah.
TITLE I—DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS
AREAS
SEC. 101. GREAT BASIN WILDERNESS AREAS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) the Great Basin region of western Utah
is comprised of starkly beautiful mountain
ranges that rise as islands from the desert
floor;
(2) the Wah Wah Mountains in the Great
Basin region are arid and austere, with mas-
sive cliff faces and leathery slopes speckled
with piñon and juniper;
(3) the Pilot Range and Stansbury Moun-
tains in the Great Basin region are high
enough to draw moisture from passing clouds
and support ecosystems found nowhere else
on earth;
(4) from bristlecone pine, the world’s oldest
living organism, to newly flowered mountain
meadows, mountains of the Great Basin re-
gion are islands of nature that—
(A) support remarkable biological diver-
sity; and
(B) provide opportunities to experience the
colossal silence of the Great Basin; and
(5) the Great Basin region of western Utah
should be protected and managed to ensure
the preservation of the natural conditions of
the region.
(b) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the State are designated
as wilderness areas and as components of the
National Wilderness Preservation System:
(1) Antelope Range (approximately 17,000
acres).
(2) Barn Hills (approximately 21,000 acres).
(3) Black Hills (approximately 8,700 acres).
(4) Bullgrass Knoll (approximately 16,000
acres).
(5) Burbank Hills/Tunnel Spring (approxi-
mately 94,000 acres).
(6) Conger Mountain (approximately 31,000
acres).
(7) Crater and Silver Island Mountains (ap-
proximately 121,000 acres).
(8) Crater Bench (approximately 35,000
acres).
(9) Cricket Mountains (approximately
56,000 acres).
(10) Deep Creek Mountains (approximately
128,000 acres).
(11) Drum Mountains (approximately 40,500
acres).
(12) Dugway Mountains (approximately
24,500 acres).
(13) Fish Springs Range (approximately
64,500 acres).
(14) Granite Peak (approximately 19,500
acres).
(15) Grassy Mountains (approximately
24,000 acres).
(16) Grouse Creek Mountains (approxi-
mately 15,000 acres).
(17) House Range (approximately 202,000
acres).
(18) Keg Mountain (approximately 38,500
acres).
(19) Kern Mountains (approximately 15,000
acres).
(20) King Top (approximately 111,000 acres).
(21) Little Goose Creek (approximately
1,300 acres).
(22) Middle/Granite Mountain (approxi-
mately 81,000 acres).
(23) Mount Escalante (approximately 17,500
acres).
(24) Mountain Home Range (approximately
90,000 acres).
(25) Newfoundland Mountains (approxi-
mately 23,000 acres).
(26) Ochre Mountain (approximately 13,500
acres).
(27) Oquirrh Mountains (approximately
8,900 acres).
(28) Painted Rock (approximately 26,500
acres).
(29) Paradise/Steamboat Mountains (ap-
proximately 136,000 acres).
(30) Pilot Range (approximately 44,000
acres).
(31) Red Tops (approximately 28,000 acres).
(32) Rockwell-Little Sahara (approxi-
mately 19,000 acres).
(33) San Francisco Mountains (approxi-
mately 40,000 acres).
(34) Sand Ridge (approximately 73,000
acres).
(35) Sevier Plateau (approximately 30,000
acres).
(36) Simpson Mountains (approximately
43,000 acres).
(37) Snake Valley (approximately 103,000
acres).
(38) Spring Creek Canyon (approximately
5,200 acres).
(39) Stansbury Island (approximately 9,900
acres).
(40) Stansbury Mountains (approximately
25,000 acres).
(41) Thomas Range (approximately 41,000
acres).
(42) Tule Valley (approximately 159,000
acres).
(43) Wah Wah Mountains (approximately
177,000 acres).
(44) White Rock Range (approximately
5,500 acres).
SEC. 102. GRAND STAIRCASE-ESCALANTE WIL-
DERNESS AREAS.
(a) GRAND STAIRCASE AREA.—
(1) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(A) the area known as the Grand Staircase
rises more than 6,000 feet in a series of great
cliffs and plateaus from the depths of the
Grand Canyon to the forested rim of Bryce
Canyon;
(B) the Grand Staircase—
(i) spans 6 major life zones, from the lower
Sonoran Desert to the alpine forest; and
(ii) encompasses geologic formations that
display 3,000,000,000 years of Earth’s history;
(C) land managed by the Secretary lines
the intricate canyon system of the Paria
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE6.013 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7051
December 16, 2019
River and forms a vital natural corridor con-
nection to the deserts and forests of those
national parks;
(D) land described in paragraph (2) (other
than East of Bryce, the majority of Upper
Kanab Creek, Moquith Mountain, Bunting
Point, Canaan Mountain, Orderville Canyon,
Parunuweap Canyon, and Vermillion Cliffs)
is located within the Grand Staircase-
Escalante National Monument, as estab-
lished in 1996; and
(E) the Grand Staircase in Utah should be
protected and managed as a wilderness area.
(2) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the State are designated
as wilderness areas and as components of the
National Wilderness Preservation System:
(A) Bryce Boot (approximately 2,800 acres).
(B) Bryce View (approximately 850 acres).
(C) Bunting Point (approximately 11,000
acres).
(D) Canaan Mountain (approximately 15,000
acres).
(E) East of Bryce (approximately 850
acres).
(F) Glass Eye Canyon (approximately 25,000
acres).
(G) Ladder Canyon (approximately 14,000
acres).
(H) Moquith Mountain (approximately
15,500 acres).
(I) Nephi Point (approximately 15,000
acres).
(J) Orderville Canyon (approximately 8,100
acres).
(K) Paria-Hackberry (approximately 196,000
acres).
(L) Paria Wilderness Expansion (approxi-
mately 4,000 acres).
(M) Parunuweap Canyon (approximately
44,500 acres).
(N) Pine Hollow (approximately 11,000
acres).
(O) Slopes of Bryce (approximately 3,700
acres).
(P) Timber Mountain (approximately 52,500
acres).
(Q) Upper Kanab Creek (approximately
51,000 acres).
(R) Vermillion Cliffs (approximately 26,000
acres).
(S) Willis Creek (approximately 21,000
acres).
(b) KAIPAROWITS PLATEAU.—
(1) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(A) the Kaiparowits Plateau east of the
Paria River is one of the most rugged and
isolated wilderness regions in the United
States;
(B) the Kaiparowits Plateau, a windswept
land of harsh beauty, contains distant vistas
and a remarkable variety of plant and ani-
mal species;
(C) ancient forests, an abundance of big
game animals, and 22 species of raptors
thrive undisturbed on the grassland mesa
tops of the Kaiparowits Plateau;
(D) each of the areas described in para-
graph (2) (other than Heaps Canyon, Little
Valley, and Wide Hollow) is located within
the Grand Staircase-Escalante National
Monument, as established in 1996; and
(E) the Kaiparowits Plateau should be pro-
tected and managed as a wilderness area.
(2) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the State are designated
as wilderness areas and as components of the
National Wilderness Preservation System:
(A) Andalex Not (approximately 18,000
acres).
(B) Box Canyon (approximately 3,000
acres).
(C) Burning Hills (approximately 81,000
acres).
(D) Canaan Peak Slopes (approximately
2,500 acres).
(E) Carcass Canyon (approximately 85,000
acres).
(F) Fiftymile Bench (approximately 13,000
acres).
(G) Fiftymile Mountain (approximately
207,000 acres).
(H) Heaps Canyon (approximately 4,000
acres).
(I) Horse Spring Canyon (approximately
32,000 acres).
(J) Kodachrome Headlands (approximately
8,500 acres).
(K) Little Valley Canyon (approximately
4,000 acres).
(L) Mud Spring Canyon (approximately
66,000 acres).
(M) Nipple Bench (approximately 32,000
acres).
(N) Paradise Canyon-Wahweap (approxi-
mately 266,000 acres).
(O) Rock Cove (approximately 17,000 acres).
(P) The Blues (approximately 22,000 acres).
(Q) The Cockscomb (approximately 12,000
acres).
(R) Warm Creek (approximately 24,000
acres).
(S) Wide Hollow (approximately 7,700
acres).
(c) ESCALANTE CANYONS.—
(1) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(A) glens and coves carved in massive sand-
stone cliffs, spring-watered hanging gardens,
and the silence of ancient Anasazi ruins are
examples of the unique features that entice
hikers, campers, and sightseers from around
the world to Escalante Canyon;
(B) Escalante Canyon links the spruce fir
forests of the 11,000-foot Aquarius Plateau
with winding slickrock canyons that flow
into Glen Canyon;
(C) Escalante Canyon, one of Utah’s most
popular natural areas, contains critical habi-
tat for deer, elk, and wild bighorn sheep that
also enhances the scenic integrity of the
area;
(D) each of the areas described in para-
graph (2) is located within the Grand Stair-
case-Escalante National Monument, as es-
tablished in 1996; and
(E) Escalante Canyon should be protected
and managed as a wilderness area.
(2) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the State are designated
as wilderness areas and as components of the
National Wilderness Preservation System:
(A) Colt Mesa (approximately 28,000 acres).
(B) Death Hollow (approximately 50,000
acres).
(C) Forty Mile Gulch (approximately 7,600
acres).
(D) Lampstand (approximately 11,500
acres).
(E) Muley Twist Flank (approximately
3,700 acres).
(F) North Escalante Canyons (approxi-
mately 182,000 acres).
(G) Pioneer Mesa (approximately 11,000
acres).
(H) Scorpion (approximately 61,000 acres).
(I) Sooner Bench (approximately 500 acres).
(J) Steep Creek (approximately 36,000
acres).
(K) Studhorse Peaks (approximately 24,000
acres).
SEC. 103. MOAB-LA SAL CANYONS WILDERNESS
AREAS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) the canyons surrounding the La Sal
Mountains and the town of Moab offer a vari-
ety of extraordinary landscapes;
(2) outstanding examples of natural forma-
tions and landscapes in the Moab-La Sal area
include the huge sandstone fins of Behind
the Rocks, the mysterious Fisher Towers,
and the whitewater rapids of Westwater Can-
yon; and
(3) the Moab-La Sal area should be pro-
tected and managed as a wilderness area.
(b) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the State are designated
as wilderness areas and as components of the
National Wilderness Preservation System:
(1) Arches Adjacent (approximately 4,100
acres).
(2) Beaver Creek (approximately 45,000
acres).
(3) Behind the Rocks (approximately 19,500
acres).
(4) Big Triangle (approximately 21,500
acres).
(5) Coyote Wash (approximately 27,000
acres).
(6) Dome Plateau (approximately 36,500
acres).
(7) Fisher Towers (approximately 18,000
acres).
(8) Goldbar Canyon (approximately 9,500
acres).
(9) Granite Creek (approximately 5,000
acres).
(10) Hunter Canyon (approximately 5,500
acres).
(11) Mary Jane Canyon (approximately
27,500 acres).
(12) Mill Creek (approximately 17,000
acres).
(13) Morning Glory (approximately 11,000
acres).
(14) Porcupine Rim (approximately 10,000
acres).
(15) Renegade Point (approximately 6,200
acres).
(16) Westwater Canyon (approximately
39,000 acres).
(17) Yellow Bird (approximately 4,600
acres).
SEC. 104. HENRY MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS
AREAS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) the Henry Mountain Range, the last
mountain range to be discovered and named
by early explorers in the contiguous United
States, still retains a wild and undiscovered
quality;
(2) fluted badlands that surround the
flanks of 11,000-foot Mounts Ellen and Pen-
nell contain areas of critical habitat for
mule deer and for the largest herd of free-
roaming buffalo in the United States;
(3) despite their relative accessibility, the
Henry Mountain Range remains one of the
wildest, least-known ranges in the United
States; and
(4) the Henry Mountain range should be
protected and managed to ensure the preser-
vation of the range as a wilderness area.
(b) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the State are designated
as wilderness areas and as components of the
National Wilderness Preservation System:
(1) Bull Mountain (approximately 16,000
acres).
(2) Bullfrog Creek (approximately 42,000
acres).
(3) Dogwater Creek (approximately 3,400
acres).
(4) Fremont Gorge (approximately 22,000
acres).
(5) Long Canyon (approximately 16,500
acres).
(6) Mount Ellen-Blue Hills (approximately
145,000 acres).
(7) Mount Hillers (approximately 20,000
acres).
(8) Mount Pennell (approximately 155,000
acres).
(9) Notom Bench (approximately 7,300
acres).
(10) Oak Creek (approximately 1,500 acres).
(11) Ragged Mountain (approximately
29,000 acres).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE6.015 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7052 December 16, 2019
SEC. 105. GLEN CANYON WILDERNESS AREAS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) the side canyons of Glen Canyon, in-
cluding the Dirty Devil River and the Red,
White and Blue Canyons, contain some of the
most remote and outstanding landscapes in
southern Utah;
(2) the Dirty Devil River, once the fortress
hideout of outlaw Butch Cassidy’s Wild
Bunch, has sculpted a maze of slickrock can-
yons through an imposing landscape of
monoliths and inaccessible mesas;
(3) the Red and Blue Canyons contain
colorful Chinle/Moenkopi badlands found no-
where else in the region; and
(4) the canyons of Glen Canyon in the
State should be protected and managed as
wilderness areas.
(b) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the State are designated
as wilderness areas and as components of the
National Wilderness Preservation System:
(1) Cane Spring Desert (approximately
18,000 acres).
(2) Dark Canyon (approximately 138,000
acres).
(3) Dirty Devil (approximately 245,000
acres).
(4) Fiddler Butte (approximately 93,000
acres).
(5) Flat Tops (approximately 30,000 acres).
(6) Little Rockies (approximately 64,000
acres).
(7) Red Rock Plateau (approximately
210,000 acres).
(8) The Needle (approximately 11,000 acres).
(9) White Canyon (approximately 115,500
acres).
SEC. 106. SAN JUAN-ANASAZI WILDERNESS
AREAS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) more than 1,000 years ago, the Anasazi
Indian culture flourished in the slickrock
canyons and on the piñon-covered mesas of
southeastern Utah;
(2) evidence of the ancient presence of the
Anasazi pervades the Cedar Mesa area of the
San Juan-Anasazi area where cliff dwellings,
rock art, and ceremonial kivas embellish
sandstone overhangs and isolated
benchlands;
(3) the Cedar Mesa area is in need of pro-
tection from the vandalism and theft of its
unique cultural resources;
(4) the Cedar Mesa wilderness areas should
be created to protect both the archaeological
heritage and the extraordinary wilderness,
scenic, and ecological values of the United
States; and
(5) the San Juan-Anasazi area should be
protected and managed as a wilderness area
to ensure the preservation of the unique and
valuable resources of that area.
(b) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the State are designated
as wilderness areas and as components of the
National Wilderness Preservation System:
(1) Allen Canyon (approximately 6,400
acres).
(2) Arch Canyon (approximately 30,500
acres).
(3) Comb Ridge (approximately 16,000
acres).
(4) Cross Canyon (approximately 2,400
acres).
(5) East Montezuma (approximately 46,500
acres).
(6) Fish and Owl Creek Canyon (approxi-
mately 74,000 acres).
(7) Grand Gulch (approximately 161,000
acres).
(8) Hammond Canyon (approximately 4,700
acres).
(9) Monument Canyon (approximately
18,000 acres).
(10) Nokai Dome (approximately 94,000
acres).
(11) Road Canyon (approximately 64,000
acres).
(12) San Juan River (approximately 15,000
acres).
(13) The Tabernacle (approximately 7,400
acres).
(14) Tin Cup Mesa (approximately 26,000
acres).
(15) Valley of the Gods (approximately
20,000 acres).
SEC. 107. CANYONLANDS BASIN WILDERNESS
AREAS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) Canyonlands National Park safeguards
only a small portion of the extraordinary
red-hued, cliff-walled canyonland region of
the Colorado Plateau;
(2) areas near Canyonlands National Park
contain canyons with rushing perennial
streams, natural arches, bridges, and towers;
(3) the gorges of the Green and Colorado
Rivers lie on adjacent land managed by the
Secretary;
(4) popular overlooks in Canyonlands Na-
tional Park and Dead Horse Point State
Park have views directly into adjacent areas,
including Lockhart Basin and Indian Creek;
and
(5) designation of those areas as wilderness
would ensure the protection of this erosional
masterpiece of nature and of the rich pock-
ets of wildlife found within its expanded
boundaries.
(b) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the State are designated
as wilderness areas and as components of the
National Wilderness Preservation System:
(1) Bridger Jack Mesa (approximately
33,500 acres).
(2) Butler Wash (approximately 27,000
acres).
(3) Dead Horse Cliffs (approximately 5,300
acres).
(4) Demon’s Playground (approximately
3,600 acres).
(5) Duma Point (approximately 14,500
acres).
(6) Gooseneck (approximately 9,400 acres).
(7) Hatch Point Canyons/Lockhart Basin
(approximately 150,500 acres).
(8) Horseshoe Canyon (approximately 83,500
acres).
(9) Horsethief Point (approximately 15,500
acres).
(10) Indian Creek (approximately 28,500
acres).
(11) Labyrinth Canyon (approximately
83,000 acres).
(12) San Rafael River (approximately
117,000 acres).
(13) Shay Mountain (approximately 15,500
acres).
(14) Sweetwater Reef (approximately 69,500
acres).
SEC. 108. SAN RAFAEL SWELL WILDERNESS
AREAS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) the San Rafael Swell towers above the
desert like a castle, ringed by 1,000-foot ram-
parts of Navajo Sandstone;
(2) the highlands of the San Rafael Swell
have been fractured by uplift and rendered
hollow by erosion over countless millennia,
leaving a tremendous basin punctuated by
mesas, buttes, and canyons and traversed by
sediment-laden desert streams;
(3) among other places, the San Rafael wil-
derness offers exceptional back country op-
portunities in the colorful Wild Horse Bad-
lands, the monoliths of North Caineville
Mesa, the rock towers of Cliff Wash, and
colorful cliffs of Humbug Canyon;
(4) the mountains within these areas are
among Utah’s most valuable habitat for
desert bighorn sheep; and
(5) the San Rafael Swell area should be
protected and managed to ensure its preser-
vation as a wilderness area.
(b) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the State are designated
as wilderness areas and as components of the
National Wilderness Preservation System:
(1) Cedar Mountain (approximately 15,000
acres).
(2) Devils Canyon (approximately 14,000
acres).
(3) Eagle Canyon (approximately 38,500
acres).
(4) Factory Butte (approximately 22,000
acres).
(5) Hondu Country (approximately 2,600
acres).
(6) Jones Bench (approximately 3,400
acres).
(7) Limestone Cliffs (approximately 25,500
acres).
(8) Lost Spring Wash (approximately 36,500
acres).
(9) Mexican Mountain (approximately
25,000 acres).
(10) Molen Reef (approximately 32,500
acres).
(11) Muddy Creek (approximately 92,000
acres).
(12) Mussentuchit Badlands (approximately
24,500 acres).
(13) Price River-Humbug (approximately
122,000 acres).
(14) Red Desert (approximately 36,500
acres).
(15) Rock Canyon (approximately 17,500
acres).
(16) San Rafael Knob (approximately 15,000
acres).
(17) San Rafael Reef (approximately 53,000
acres).
(18) Sids Mountain (approximately 36,500
acres).
(19) Upper Muddy Creek (approximately
18,500 acres).
(20) Wild Horse Mesa (approximately 63,000
acres).
SEC. 109. BOOK CLIFFS AND UINTA BASIN WIL-
DERNESS AREAS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) the Book Cliffs and Uinta Basin wilder-
ness areas offer—
(A) unique big game hunting opportunities
in verdant high-plateau forests;
(B) the opportunity for float trips of sev-
eral days duration down the Green River in
Desolation Canyon; and
(C) the opportunity for calm water canoe
weekends on the White River;
(2) the long rampart of the Book Cliffs
bounds the area on the south, while seldom-
visited uplands, dissected by the rivers and
streams, slope away to the north into the
Uinta Basin;
(3) bears, Bighorn sheep, cougars, elk, and
mule deer flourish in the back country of the
Book Cliffs; and
(4) the Book Cliffs and Uinta Basin areas
should be protected and managed to ensure
the protection of the areas as wilderness.
(b) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the State are designated
as wilderness areas and as components of the
National Wilderness Preservation System:
(1) Bad Land Cliffs (approximately 13,000
acres).
(2) Bourdette Draw (approximately 15,500
acres).
(3) Bull Canyon (approximately 3,100
acres).
(4) Dead Horse Pass (approximately 8,400
acres).
(5) Desbrough Canyon (approximately
14,000 acres).
(6) Desolation Canyon (approximately
32,000 acres).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE6.015 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7053
December 16, 2019
(7) Diamond Breaks (approximately 8,600
acres).
(8) Diamond Canyon (approximately 168,000
acres).
(9) Diamond Mountain (approximately
31,000 acres).
(10) Dinosaur Adjacent (approximately
7,900 acres).
(11) Goslin Mountain (approximately 3,800
acres).
(12) Hideout Canyon (approximately 12,500
acres).
(13) Lower Flaming Gorge (approximately
21,000 acres).
(14) Mexico Point (approximately 1,500
acres).
(15) Moonshine Draw (approximately 10,500
acres).
(16) Mountain Home (approximately 7,800
acres).
(17) O-Wi-Yu-Kuts (approximately 14,000
acres).
(18) Red Creek Badlands (approximately
4,600 acres).
(19) Survey Point (approximately 8,600
acres).
(20) Turtle Canyon (approximately 9,700
acres).
TITLE II—ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SEC. 201. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
(a) NAMES OF WILDERNESS AREAS.—Each
wilderness area named in title I shall—
(1) consist of the quantity of land ref-
erenced with respect to that named area, as
generally depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Utah BLM Wilderness Proposed by H.R.
1630, 113th Congress’’; and
(2) be known by the name given to it in
title I.
(b) MAP AND DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file a map and a legal de-
scription of each wilderness area designated
by this Act with—
(A) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
(2) FORCE OF LAW.—A map and legal de-
scription filed under paragraph (1) shall have
the same force and effect as if included in
this Act, except that the Secretary may cor-
rect clerical and typographical errors in the
map and legal description.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Each map and
legal description filed under paragraph (1)
shall be filed and made available for public
inspection in the Office of the Director of the
Bureau of Land Management.
SEC. 202. ADMINISTRATION.
Subject to valid rights in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act, each wilder-
ness area designated under this Act shall be
administered by the Secretary in accordance
with—
(1) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
(2) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.).
SEC. 203. STATE SCHOOL TRUST LAND WITHIN
WILDERNESS AREAS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (b),
if State-owned land is included in an area
designated by this Act as a wilderness area,
the Secretary shall offer to exchange land
owned by the United States in the State of
approximately equal value in accordance
with section 603(c) of the Federal Land Pol-
icy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C.
1782(c)) and section 5(a) of the Wilderness Act
(16 U.S.C. 1134(a)).
(b) MINERAL INTERESTS.—The Secretary
shall not transfer any mineral interests
under subsection (a) unless the State trans-
fers to the Secretary any mineral interests
in land designated by this Act as a wilder-
ness area.
SEC. 204. WATER.
(a) RESERVATION.—
(1) WATER FOR WILDERNESS AREAS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—With respect to each wil-
derness area designated by this Act, Con-
gress reserves a quantity of water deter-
mined by the Secretary to be sufficient for
the wilderness area.
(B) PRIORITY DATE.—The priority date of a
right reserved under subparagraph (A) shall
be the date of enactment of this Act.
(2) PROTECTION OF RIGHTS.—The Secretary
and other officers and employees of the
United States shall take any steps necessary
to protect the rights reserved by paragraph
(1)(A), including the filing of a claim for the
quantification of the rights in any present or
future appropriate stream adjudication in
the courts of the State—
(A) in which the United States is or may be
joined; and
(B) that is conducted in accordance with
section 208 of the Department of Justice Ap-
propriation Act, 1953 (66 Stat. 560, chapter
651).
(b) PRIOR RIGHTS NOT AFFECTED.—Nothing
in this Act relinquishes or reduces any water
rights reserved or appropriated by the
United States in the State on or before the
date of enactment of this Act.
(c) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) SPECIFICATION OF RIGHTS.—The Federal
water rights reserved by this Act are specific
to the wilderness areas designated by this
Act.
(2) NO PRECEDENT ESTABLISHED.—Nothing
in this Act related to reserved Federal water
rights—
(A) shall establish a precedent with regard
to any future designation of water rights; or
(B) shall affect the interpretation of any
other Act or any designation made under
any other Act.
SEC. 205. ROADS.
(a) SETBACKS.—
(1) MEASUREMENT IN GENERAL.—A setback
under this section shall be measured from
the center line of the road.
(2) WILDERNESS ON 1 SIDE OF ROADS.—Ex-
cept as provided in subsection (b), a setback
for a road with wilderness on only 1 side
shall be set at—
(A) 300 feet from a paved Federal or State
highway;
(B) 100 feet from any other paved road or
high standard dirt or gravel road; and
(C) 30 feet from any other road.
(3) WILDERNESS ON BOTH SIDES OF ROADS.—
Except as provided in subsection (b), a set-
back for a road with wilderness on both sides
(including cherry-stems or roads separating 2
wilderness units) shall be set at—
(A) 200 feet from a paved Federal or State
highway;
(B) 40 feet from any other paved road or
high standard dirt or gravel road; and
(C) 10 feet from any other roads.
(b) SETBACK EXCEPTIONS.—
(1) WELL-DEFINED TOPOGRAPHICAL BAR-
RIERS.—If, between the road and the bound-
ary of a setback area described in paragraph
(2) or (3) of subsection (a), there is a well-de-
fined cliff edge, stream bank, or other topo-
graphical barrier, the Secretary shall use the
barrier as the wilderness boundary.
(2) FENCES.—If, between the road and the
boundary of a setback area specified in para-
graph (2) or (3) of subsection (a), there is a
fence running parallel to a road, the Sec-
retary shall use the fence as the wilderness
boundary if, in the opinion of the Secretary,
doing so would result in a more manageable
boundary.
(3) DEVIATIONS FROM SETBACK AREAS.—
(A) EXCLUSION OF DISTURBANCES FROM WIL-
DERNESS BOUNDARIES.—In cases where there
is an existing livestock development, dis-
persed camping area, borrow pit, or similar
disturbance within 100 feet of a road that
forms part of a wilderness boundary, the Sec-
retary may delineate the boundary so as to
exclude the disturbance from the wilderness
area.
(B) LIMITATION ON EXCLUSION OF DISTURB-
ANCES.—The Secretary shall make a bound-
ary adjustment under subparagraph (A) only
if the Secretary determines that doing so is
consistent with wilderness management
goals.
(C) DEVIATIONS RESTRICTED TO MINIMUM
NECESSARY.—Any deviation under this para-
graph from the setbacks required under in
paragraph (2) or (3) of subsection (a) shall be
the minimum necessary to exclude the dis-
turbance.
(c) DELINEATION WITHIN SETBACK AREA.—
The Secretary may delineate a wilderness
boundary at a location within a setback
under paragraph (2) or (3) of subsection (a) if,
as determined by the Secretary, the delinea-
tion would enhance wilderness management
goals.
SEC. 206. LIVESTOCK.
Within the wilderness areas designated
under title I, the grazing of livestock author-
ized on the date of enactment of this Act
shall be permitted to continue subject to
such reasonable regulations and procedures
as the Secretary considers necessary, as long
as the regulations and procedures are con-
sistent with—
(1) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.); and
(2) section 101(f) of the Arizona Desert Wil-
derness Act of 1990 (Public Law 101–628; 104
Stat. 4469).
SEC. 207. FISH AND WILDLIFE.
Nothing in this Act affects the jurisdiction
of the State with respect to wildlife and fish
on the public land located in the State.
SEC. 208. MANAGEMENT OF NEWLY ACQUIRED
LAND.
Any land within the boundaries of a wil-
derness area designated under this Act that
is acquired by the Federal Government
shall—
(1) become part of the wilderness area in
which the land is located; and
(2) be managed in accordance with this Act
and other laws applicable to wilderness
areas.
SEC. 209. WITHDRAWAL.
Subject to valid rights existing on the date
of enactment of this Act, the Federal land
referred to in title I is withdrawn from all
forms of—
(1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
public law;
(2) location, entry, and patent under min-
ing law; and
(3) disposition under all laws pertaining to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and
Mr. CASEY):
S. 3057. A bill to modernize the Older
Americans Act of 1965, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, there is
a great deal of activity going on as we
seek to conclude the negotiations on so
many important issues. However, I
don’t want us to lose sight of the expi-
ration of the authorization of the Older
Americans Act—a very important law
that makes a big difference for many of
our seniors all across our country—so I
rise today to introduce a reauthoriza-
tion of that important law called the
Modernization of the Older Americans
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE6.015 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7054 December 16, 2019
Act. I am pleased to sponsor this reau-
thorization with Senator BOB CASEY,
who serves as the ranking member of
the Senate Special Committee on
Aging, of which I am the chair.
Since 1965, the Older Americans Act
has ensured that seniors receive the
support they need to grow older inde-
pendently and with dignity. The OAA
programs provide nutritious food,
transportation, assistance to care-
givers, and in-home services for older
adults. Our investments foster a sense
of community for older adults and save
taxpayers money by reducing hos-
pitalizations and the need for long-
term residential care.
I know the Presiding Officer would
agree that most seniors would prefer to
remain in the comfort, security, and
privacy of their own homes if they pos-
sibly can. It is the programs of the
Older Americans Act that help to make
that possible.
As our population grows older, the
demand for Older American Act serv-
ices has grown as well. For example,
Meals on Wheels—perhaps the best
known of all the OAA programs—pro-
vided seniors with 358 million meals
last year. In many States, the need is
soaring. In Maine, which is the oldest
State by median age in the country,
there is a waiting list of 400 to 1,500
seniors, depending on the time of the
year and the location within our State.
This reauthorization helps to ensure
that more seniors in need of nutritious
food can be served. At $11 a day, a meal
is far cheaper than a $2,400 average cost
of a daily hospital stay. Let me give an
example of what I mean by that. Using
Older Americans Act dollars, the
Southern Maine Agency on Aging con-
ducted a pilot study that provided sen-
iors discharged from hospitals with 4
weeks’ worth of prepared meals. The
results were astounding. Hospital re-
admissions were reduced by 38 per-
cent—a 387-percent return on invest-
ment. If you scaled that nationwide,
the savings would be an astronomical
$51 billion annually—just ensuring that
a senior who is discharged from the
hospital has 4 weeks’ worth of prepared
meals available to him or her.
We have also included several provi-
sions in the reauthorization to combat
social isolation, which can have dev-
astating health effects. In fact, esti-
mates are that prolonged isolation and
loneliness have an impact on health
that is comparable to smoking 15 ciga-
rettes a day. Just think of that.
My State is already on the forefront
of combating this epidemic of isola-
tion. Using Older Americans Act fund-
ing, the Maine Eastern Area Agency on
Aging has partnered with the Univer-
sity of Maine to implement Project
Generations, which brings student vol-
unteers into the homes of local seniors
for visits. Our reauthorization includes
an increased focus on the detrimental
effects of social isolation and would
provide States with more resources to
develop programs like Project Genera-
tions. What a wonderful program this
is. It not only gives some company
that an older American might not
have, but also it is great for those stu-
dents to have the interaction with our
seniors. It truly is a win-win program.
Flexibility and innovation have al-
ways been at the heart of the Older
Americans Act. What may be needed in
the Presiding Officer’s home State may
be different from what is needed in the
State of Maine. Our reauthorization
would help communities continue to
find creative solutions to meet the
needs of our seniors. For example, the
Southern Maine Agency on Aging re-
structured its congregate meals pro-
gram by hosting meals in multigenera-
tional settings, such as hospital and
college cafeterias and small local res-
taurants. Since then, the program has
grown by 55 percent and boosted the
local economy by increasing the num-
ber of diners from rural areas by 61 per-
cent in the first 5 years.
It is much more interesting for our
seniors to go out to a local restaurant
for a congregate meal than in some
cases going to a senior center. It may
be more interesting for them to go to a
college cafeteria and have that inter-
action with younger people. Whatever
works, that is the answer. In some
areas, it may work to do a college or
hospital cafeteria; in another, it is a
senior center; and in still others, it
may be the local diner that is pro-
viding the meal.
The core of the Older Americans Act
is protecting the most vulnerable of
our older Americans. One critical pro-
gram is the Long-Term Care Ombuds-
man Program. This provides advocacy
for residents in long-term care facili-
ties, assisting with discharge and also
protecting their rights.
There was a disturbing story in one
of the weekend newspapers in Maine
about a nursing home that was not liv-
ing up to the quality standards that we
need, and that is where the ombudsman
program can be absolutely critical be-
cause a lot of times, the relatives of
residents are very cautious about com-
plaining. They are fearful that their
loved one may have nowhere else to go.
So the ombudsman program is an im-
portant quality control program.
At an Aging Committee hearing this
May, the executive director of Maine’s
Long-Term Care Ombudsman Program,
Brenda Gallant, shared the story of a
94-year-old woman whom she was able
to help transition from a nursing home
back to her own home after recovering
from a fractured hip. Brenda connected
the woman with the resources and the
technologies to make the transition a
smooth one and to help her live suc-
cessfully back in her own home, just
where she wanted to be.
The Older Americans Act is a shining
example of a Federal policy that
works. Every dollar invested into the
Older Americans Act generates $3 by
helping seniors stay at home through
highly effective and lower cost commu-
nity-based services.
I thank the dozens of stakeholders we
have worked with over the past several
months. We have gotten lots of input
in preparing this reauthorization, in-
cluding from the Leadership Council of
Aging Organizations, AARP, the Na-
tional Association of Area Agencies on
Aging, Advancing States, the National
Alliance for Caregiving, Meals on
Wheels America, and the Alzheimer’s
Association.
I ask unanimous consent to print
these many letters of support in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
AARP,
December 16, 2019.
Hon. SUSAN COLLINS,
Chair, Special Committee on Aging,
U.S. Senate.
Hon. BOB CASEY,
Ranking Member, Special Committee on Aging,
U.S. Senate.
DEAR SENATORS COLLINS AND CASEY: On be-
half of our nearly 38 million members and all
older Americans nationwide, AARP is
pleased to support the Modernization of the
Older Americans Act Amendments, legisla-
tion to reauthorize the Older Americans Act
(OAA). We appreciate your leadership and
the bipartisan work of Senate Committee on
Health, Education, Labor and Pensions
Chairman Lamar Alexander and Ranking
Member Patty Murray in developing this
legislation, and encourage prompt reauthor-
ization of OAA.
The Older Americans Act has a powerful
legacy. Since 1965 it has provided older
Americans with the support they need to live
at home with independence and dignity. In
2017 alone, OAA programs provided services
for over 11 million older adults. Those serv-
ices include home care, congregate and
home-delivered meals, case management,
family caregiver support, transportation,
adult day care, legal services, elder abuse
prevention, and job training and employ-
ment opportunities for low-income older
adults. OAA programs serve the needs of
older Americans while deferring or elimi-
nating the need for costly institutionaliza-
tion.
The Modernization of the Older Americans
Act Amendments builds on this legacy. The
legislation further strengthens the National
Family Caregiver Support Program (NFCSP)
by helping to make sure that more care-
givers can get their needs assessed when
they turn to the program for support, ex-
tends the RAISE Family Caregivers Act, and
increases funding levels to support the needs
of the growing older population. This legisla-
tion, which will promote greater responsive-
ness to the needs of older Americans and
their caregivers, comes at a critical time.
From 2019 to 2030 we expect to see the 80+
population grow by 54 percent. This age
group is among the most likely to need help
living independently in their homes and
communities .
Again, thank you for your bipartisan lead-
ership in advancing this important legisla-
tion. We urge prompt reauthorization so that
our loved ones can continue to turn to these
services for their health and economic secu-
rity as they age. If you have any questions,
feel free to contact me.
Sincerely,
MEGAN O’REILLY,
Vice President, Federal Health & Family
Government Affairs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16DE6.006 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7055
December 16, 2019
NATIONAL ALLIANCE FOR CAREGIVING,
November 15, 2019.
Re Senator Collins ‘‘Modernization of the
Older Americans Act Amendments’’ bill
in the 116th Congress.
Hon. SUSAN COLLINS,
Chairman,
Special Committee on Aging.
On behalf of the National Alliance for
Caregiving (NAC), we are happy to support
Senator Collins ‘‘Modernization of the Older
Americans Act Amendments’’ bill. Thank
you for the opportunity to participate in the
reauthorization process for the Older Ameri-
cans Act. This law is one of the most under-
recognized supports for family caregivers of
adults, and your leadership in the goal to
strengthen families and the dignity and inde-
pendence of aging adults is critical to the
communities we serve.
We were excited to have the opportunity to
come and meet with your staff and to ex-
plore ways that family caregiving could be
supported with this reauthorization. Your
leadership and commitment to families is
evident in the latest draft of the bill and we
appreciate the opportunity to provide our
input, as follows:
1. NAC recommended that the bill increase
the authorized funding level for the National
Family Caregiver Support Program (Title
IIIE) from the current appropriated level of
$181.2 million to $360 million. We recognize
that OAA funding has not kept pace with in-
flation and the growing demands placed on
families as the population ages. We remain
hopeful that you will be able to support our
request.
2. NAC recommended that the bill direct
the Assistant Secretary (in Title II) to award
a grant to or enter into a cooperative agree-
ment with a public or private nonprofit enti-
ty to establish and operate a National Re-
source Center on Family Caregiving. Al-
though the draft bill does not specifically di-
rect the creation of the Resource Center,
Section 215 of the Modernization of the Older
Americans Act includes language pertaining
to ‘‘(i) Activities of National Significance,
which offers a potential for the creation of a
Resource Center. We suggest the following
modification to strengthen that section:
(i) Activities of National Significance.—The
Assistant Secretary ƒmay≈ shall award funds
authorized under this section to one or more
public or private nonprofit entities with appro-
priate caregiving expertise for conducting activi-
ties of national significance that—
(1ƒ2≈) include, with respect to such programs,
program evaluation, training, technical assist-
ance, materials, dissemination, and research;
and
(ƒ1≈2) promote quality and continuous im-
provement in the support provided to family
caregivers and older relative caregivers through
programs carried out under this section and sec-
tion 631.
3. We recommended extending the RAISE
Family Caregivers Act of 2017, and we appre-
ciate the current draft bill which would ex-
tend the act for five years.
4. Section 215 of the current draft bill
about the National Family Caregiver Sup-
port Program addresses our recommendation
to increase the use of standardized family
caregiver assessment tools. The inclusion of
a clear definition for caregiver assessment,
identifying and disseminating best practices,
and calling for a report on the status of care-
giver assessment are excellent proposals to
successfully expand assessment tools and ac-
cess to services for family caregivers.
5. NAC’s fifth recommendation was to di-
rect the Assistant Secretary of Health and
Human Services to develop a plan to imple-
ment recommendation 1-g from the National
Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and
Medicine’s ‘‘Families Caring for and Aging
America’’ report: ‘‘Launch a multi-agency
research program sufficiently robust to
evaluate caregiver interventions in real-
world health care and community settings,
across diverse conditions and populations,
and with respect to a broad array of out-
comes.’’ Noting that this is not in the cur-
rent draft, we would offer our expertise and
be happy to participate in further conversa-
tion about how such a research program
might be created.
Again, thank you and we look forward to a
successful reauthorization this year.
Kind regards,
C. GRACE WHITING, J.D,
President, CEO.
MICHAEL R. WITTKE,
B.S.W., M.P.A.,
Senior Director, Public
Policy and Advo-
cacy.
WEST HEALTH INSTITUTE,
December 2, 2019.
Hon. SUSAN COLLINS.
DEAR SENATOR COLLINS: On behalf of the
Gary and Mary West Health Institute (WHI),
I am writing to thank you and your staff for
your tireless efforts to reauthorize the Older
Americans Act (OAA). Originally enacted in
1965, the OAA supports a range of vital home-
and community-based programs, such as
Meals on Wheels and other nutritional sup-
port; in-home, transportation and legal serv-
ices; and elder abuse prevention and care-
giver support. Protecting seniors’ access to
these services is critical in light of the grow-
ing population of U.S. seniors, which is pro-
jected to reach 56 million in 2020 and more
than 73 million by 2030. We urge your col-
leagues to support reauthorization of this
critical legislation before the end of the
year.
Based in San Diego, WHI is an applied med-
ical research organization and part of non-
profit and nonpartisan West Health, which
also includes the Gary and Mary West Foun-
dation and the Gary and Mary West Health
Policy Center. Our organizations work to-
gether toward a shared mission dedicated to
lowering the cost of healthcare to enable
seniors to successfully age in place with ac-
cess to high-quality, affordable health and
support services that preserve and protect
their dignity, quality of life and independ-
ence.
One of West Health’s flagship programs is
the Gary and Mary West Senior Wellness
Center in downtown San Diego. At the Sen-
ior Wellness Center, which is operated by the
nonprofit Serving Seniors, low-income sen-
iors receive coordinated care and social sup-
port services—all under one roof. Since it
opened in 2010, the Center has served over 1.7
million nutritious meals and has provided
more than 10,000 seniors with services they
need from the Center’s 30 collaborative part-
ners, including the Gary and Mary West Sen-
ior Dental Center—a separate, onsite non-
profit dental clinic providing affordable oral
care to low-income seniors.
In recent years, West Health has focused
on shining a light on one of the greatest
threats to successful aging: senior malnutri-
tion. Malnutrition disproportionally affects
seniors. One out of two seniors are at risk,
and disease-associated malnutrition in sen-
iors is estimated to cost $51.3 billion annu-
ally. With our nation’s rapidly growing sen-
ior population, the impact of malnutrition
will be even greater if action is not taken
now. Thank you for adding malnutrition to
routine health screenings in your draft legis-
lation as well as H.R. 4334.
We fully appreciate the value of OAA fund-
ed programs in enriching seniors’ lives and
urge Congress to reauthorize the OAA this
year at the highest possible authorization
levels. On behalf of the seniors we serve,
thank you for your advocacy and leadership.
Sincerely,
SHELLEY LYFORD,
President and Chief Executive Officer.
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF NUTRI-
TION AND AGING SERVICES PRO-
GRAMS,
Washington, DC, November 16, 2019.
NANASP OLDER AMERICANS ACT DRAFT BILL
COMMENTS
To the Senate Health, Education, Labor and
Pensions (HELP) Committee Majority:
Thank you for providing an opportunity to
share comments on the draft bill you re-
leased for the 2019 Older Americans Act reau-
thorization.
NANASP is pleased that Sen. Collins’
Older Americans Act proposal includes:
Increased authorizations for funding levels.
The bill includes continued increases over
the next seven federal fiscal years (FY) for
Older Americans Act programs, including an
increase of over $473 million total for Older
Americans Act nutrition programs by FY
2026—increases that are sorely needed for
programs that are stretched thin by growing
demand.
An increased focus on malnutrition. The
bill includes new provisions for malnutrition
screening and adds reduction of malnutrition
to the purposes of the nutrition program.
Since more than one in two older adults is at
risk for malnutrition, which increases their
risk of disease and death, it is vital to detect
this condition early.
Simpler transfer authority between con-
gregate and home-delivered meals programs.
The bill includes language instructing states
to ensure that the transfer process for nutri-
tion programs is simplified and clarified,
maximizing efficiency and minimizing paper-
work and confusion.
Creation of a nutrition program impact
study. This study would assess how to meas-
ure and evaluate the discrepancy between
available nutrition services and the demand
for such services, which would ultimately
lead to data to strengthen the case for much-
needed future funding increases for nutrition
programs.
Inclusion of culturally considerate and
medically tailored meals in nutrition pro-
grams’ offerings to the maximum extent
practicable. As the older population becomes
more diverse, it is important to take newly
diverse preferences into consideration when
providing meals. Medically tailored meals
have also been shown to reduce disease bur-
den in older adults and are important to con-
sider offering as well.
An increased focus on social isolation.
Through the first-time inclusion of social
isolation screening, further coordination of
services to address this issue, and creation of
an advisory council on social isolation, Older
Americans Act programs and services can
even more effectively address the needs of
socially isolated older adults.
Strengthened family caregiver provisions.
Caregivers, including older relative care-
givers, need support, and this bill would in-
crease the use of caregiver assessments to
analyze their needs as well as allow indi-
vidual states to determine spending needs for
older relative caregivers.
If you have any questions, please contact
NANASP’s Policy and Advocacy Director
Meredith Whitmire.
BOB BLANCATO,
Executive Director.
MEREDITH WHITMIRE,
Policy and Advocacy
Director.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:05 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE6.022 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7056 December 16, 2019
ALZHEIMER’S IMPACT MOVEMENT,
November 15, 2019.
Hon. SUSAN COLLINS,
Chairman, U.S. Senate Special Committee on
Aging.
DEAR CHAIRMAN COLLINS: On behalf of the
Alzheimer’s Association and the Alzheimer’s
Impact Movement (AIM), including our na-
tionwide network of advocates, thank you
for your continued leadership on issues and
legislation important to Americans living
with Alzheimer’s and other dementias, and
their caregivers. In addition, thank you for
working in a bipartisan manner to reauthor-
ize this important program, including the
hearing held by the Senate Special Com-
mittee on Aging. We are proud to support
this draft of the Older Americans Act (OAA)
reauthorization and are pleased to highlight
several provisions that are critical to per-
sons living with dementia, families, and
their caregivers.
We strongly support the inclusion in the
draft of language codifying existing author-
ity to provide services to individuals living
with younger-onset Alzheimer’s disease
under the National Family Caregiver Sup-
port Program and the Long-Term Care Om-
budsman Program. We are very appreciative
for the inclusion of these key elements of the
Younger-Onset Alzheimer’s Disease Act (S.
901/H.R. 1903).
There are approximately 5.8 million Amer-
icans living with Alzheimer’s disease. The
vast majority of those individuals are over
the age of 65, however, approximately 200,000
Americans are under the age of 65 living with
younger-onset Alzheimer’s disease. Individ-
uals living with younger-onset face unique
challenges when it comes to family, work,
and finances. They may be parenting young
children at home, or still be working as the
primary income provider for their families.
Due to their young age, they may have more
trouble receiving an accurate diagnosis, and
even family and friends might question their
diagnosis. The stigma associated with
younger-onset Alzheimer’s can have a sig-
nificant impact on their well-being and qual-
ity of life.
Since 97 percent of all people living with
Alzheimer’s are age 65 or older, current Alz-
heimer’s support infrastructure focuses ex-
clusively on seniors. As a result, few sup-
portive services are available to those with
younger-onset. With other diseases—like
heart disease, diabetes, and even cancer—
many people living with them are middle-
aged and there is a large support structure
available to them. Those same support struc-
tures are not available for the individuals
living with younger-onset Alzheimer’s dis-
ease. The services provided under the OAA
are particularly helpful for individuals with
younger-onset Alzheimer’s disease and re-
lated dementias who need assistance with ac-
tivities of daily living.
The Younger-Onset Alzheimer’s Disease
Act is consistent with the National Plan to
Address Alzheimer’s Disease. The Advisory
Council on Alzheimers Research. Care. and
Services. which is responsible for updating
and implementing the Plan, has noted that
persons living with younger-onset Alz-
heimer’s face unique challenges in accessing
care. In the 2017 National Plan, the Advisory
Council recommended that Congress amend
the OAA to allow additional services to be
provided to younger adults living with de-
mentia.
The Alzheimer’s Association and AIM also
deeply appreciate the bill’s extension of the
authorization for the RAISE Family Care-
givers Act from 3 years to 8 years. We have
been strong advocates for the RAISE Family
Caregivers Act since it was introduced in
Congress. There has been a delay in the im-
plementation of the Act and the decision to
extend the authorization allows the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services to bet-
ter develop a national strategy for education
and training, long-term services and sup-
ports, and financial stability and security for
caregivers.
For millions of Americans caring for indi-
viduals with Alzheimer’s and other demen-
tias the emotional, physical, and financial
costs can be overwhelming. Caregivers of
people with dementia report higher levels of
stress, depression, and worse health out-
comes than those providing care to individ-
uals without dementia. As a result, Alz-
heimer’s caregivers incurred $11.8 billion in
additional health costs last year. We appre-
ciate the bill prioritizing this important pro-
gram.
We also applaud the bill’s strengthening of
caregiver assessments. In 2018, more than 16
million unpaid caregivers provided 18.5 bil-
lion hours of care valued at nearly $234 bil-
lion and face the challenges noted above.
Eighty-three percent of the help provided to
older adults in the United States comes from
family members, friends, or other unpaid
caregivers. Nearly half of all caregivers who
provide help to older adults do so for some-
one living with Alzheimer’s or another de-
mentia. Alzheimer’s takes a devastating toll
on caregivers. Compared with caregivers of
people without dementia, twice as many
caregivers of those with dementia indicate
substantial emotional, financial, and phys-
ical difficulties. Of the total lifetime cost of
caring for someone with dementia, 70 percent
is borne by families—either through out-of-
pocket health and long-term care expenses
or from the value of unpaid care.
These dedicated caregivers would greatly
benefit from increased resources, training,
and support to help them navigate the strain
of caregiving and improve their health and
quality of life. The proposed changes would
provide these caregivers with much-needed
resources through the National Family Care-
giver Support Program, increase the use of
caregiver assessments, and identify best
practices relating to the programs. These
important actions will enhance support for
caregivers through skills building, increased
resources and information, respite care,
counseling, and other helpful benefits.
Finally, the Association and AIM appre-
ciate your commitment to supporting indi-
viduals facing social isolation with the in-
clusion of a report on social isolation. Social
isolation is an issue within the aging com-
munity as a whole, and particularly in the
Alzheimer’s and related dementias commu-
nity. Studies have found that support groups
can decrease social isolation and increase so-
cial support, ability to accept the diagnosis,
cope with symptoms, improve quality of life,
and enhance family communication (Alz-
heimer’s Association Dementia Care Prac-
tice Recommendations, 2018). Support pro-
grams offered through the National Family
Caregiver Support Program can work to de-
crease social isolation. We appreciate the
bill’s inclusion of a study on the effective-
ness of these programs.
Again, thank you for your leadership in en-
suring OAA’s reauthorization, which will im-
prove the quality of care for people living
with Alzheimer’s. If you have any questions,
please contact Rachel Conant, Vice Presi-
dent of Federal Affairs.
Sincerely,
ROBERT EGGE,
Chief Public Policy Officer,
Executive Vice President, Government Affairs.
THE JEWISH FEDERATIONS
OF NORTH AMERICA,
November 25, 2019.
Majority Leader MITCH MCCONNELL,
U.S. Senate.
Minority Leader CHUCK SCHUMER,
U.S. Senate.
Chairman LAMAR ALEXANDER,
HELP Committee, U.S. Senate.
Ranking Member PATTY MURRAY,
HELP Committee, U.S. Senate.
DEAR LEADER MCCONNELL, LEADER SCHU-
MER, CHAIRMAN ALEXANDER AND RANKING
MEMBER MURRAY: The Jewish Federations of
North America (JFNA) is proud to endorse
the Modernization of the Older Americans
Act Amendments. JFNA represents 146 local
Jewish Federations, 300 Network commu-
nities, and thousands of affiliated social
service agencies across the continent. Our
movement protects and enhances the well-
being of Jews worldwide through the values
of tikkun olam (repairing the world),
tzedakah (charity and social justice) and
torah (Jewish learning). Jewish social serv-
ices provide support for more than one mil-
lion vulnerable individuals each year, Jewish
and non-Jewish alike, including approxi-
mately 100,000 older adults.
For more than 50 years, the Older Ameri-
cans Act (OAA) has been essential in devel-
oping, coordinating, and delivering home and
community-based services that help older
adults age with independence and dignity in
their homes and communities. Without these
crucial services, many individuals served by
OAA-funded programs in our network are at
significant risk of hunger, isolation, and los-
ing their ability to live with health and inde-
pendence.
The Jewish community is disproportion-
ately older than the general population in
this country with approximately 28% of
American Jews already over the age of 65,
and the fastest growing demographic in the
Jewish community is those over the age of
85. Jewish family service agencies, Jewish
vocational service agencies and Jewish com-
munity centers are a key component of the
country’s Aging Services Network and, in a
classic public-private partnership, provide
many services funded through the OAA, in-
cluding case management, transportation,
congregate and home-delivered meals, adult
day care, elder abuse prevention and inter-
vention, family caregiver support, home
care, legal conservatorship, and support
groups.
This year’s reauthorization process pro-
duced the Modernization of the Older Ameri-
cans Act Amendments in the Senate, a bill
that, if enacted, will significantly move the
ball forward in how our country and its
Aging Services Network treat and care for
seniors. The very first substantive provision
of the bill (after the authorization of appro-
priations) incorporates ‘‘person-centered,
trauma-informed care’’ (‘‘PCTI’’) as a new
objective of the Older Americans Act. This
principle, which is subsequently defined in
the bill, represents a new trend in service de-
livery that will positively impact both cli-
ents and agencies. It incorporates a holistic
approach to service provision that promotes
the dignity, strength, and empowerment of
trauma victims by referencing knowledge
about the role of trauma in trauma victims’
lives. The inclusion of the PCTI approach in
this bill is indicative of the forward and nec-
essary progress embedded in the Moderniza-
tion of the Older Americans Act Amend-
ments.
The Modernization of the Older Americans
Act Amendments authorizes a technical as-
sistance center to serve older adults experi-
encing the long-term and adverse con-
sequences of trauma. This includes but is not
limited to Holocaust survivors. Holocaust
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:07 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE6.020 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7057
December 16, 2019
survivors are specifically mentioned for the
first time within the Older Americans Act in
the context of providing additional outreach
to older individuals ‘‘including Holocaust
survivors’’ who are at risk of institutional
placement. The bill also emphasizes cultural
considerations in the provision of congregate
and home-delivered meals.
This Older American Act reauthorization
incorporates new support for age-friendly
communities, a major new focus on social
isolation in older adults, an updating of, rec-
ognition and support for multigenerational
families, and assistance to family caregivers
with an extension of the RAISE Family
Caregivers Act. Each of these provisions and
many others contained in the bill will serve
our nation well. JFNA also is pleased with
the lengthy reauthorization period and rel-
atively robust funding increases for the
Older Americans Act, which help safeguard
support and removes uncertainty for
Collectively, this reauthorization vehicle
that is very worthy of support and JFNA
looks forward to its enactment.
Sincerely,
STEPHAN O, KLINE,
Interim Director of the Washington Office
and Associate Vice President, Public Pol-
icy The Jewish Federations of North
America.
ADVANCING STATES,
December 9, 2019.
Majority Leader MCCONNELL,
U.S. Senate.
Minority Leader SCHUMER,
U.S. Senate.
DEAR MAJORITY LEADER MCCONNELL AND
MINORITY LEADER SCHUMER: On behalf of AD-
vancing States, I am writing you in support
of efforts to reauthorize the Older Americans
Act (OAA). ADvancing States is a non-
partisan association of state government
agencies that represents the nation’s 56 state
and territorial agencies on aging and disabil-
ities. We work to support visionary state
leadership, the advancement of state sys-
tems innovation, and the development of na-
tional policies that support home and com-
munity-based services for older adults and
persons with disabilities. Our members ad-
minister a wide range of services and sup-
ports for older adults and people with dis-
abilities, including overseeing OAA pro-
grams and services in every state. Together
with our members, we work to design, im-
prove, and sustain state systems delivering
long-term services and supports for people
who are older or have a disability and for
their caregivers.
We are writing to you to strongly encour-
age the U.S. Senate to pass a bill to reau-
thorize the OAA as soon as possible. Author-
ization for critical OAA programs, such as
homedelivered meals and caregiver supports,
expired September 30, 2019. We know that
members of the Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions committee have been working
diligently to craft a bill to reauthorize the
OAA. We appreciate these bipartisan efforts
and strongly encourage the U.S. Senate to
pass a bill to reauthorize the OAA as soon as
possible.
If you have any questions regarding this
letter, please feel free to contact Damon
Terzaghi or Adam Mosey.
Sincerely,
MARTHA ROHERTY,
Executive Director.
Ms. COLLINS. I urge my colleagues
to take a look at this bipartisan bill.
We are overdue to reauthorize the
Older Americans Act. This is our op-
portunity not only to reauthorize it
but to make it even better and more
responsive to the needs of America’s
older Americans.
Thank you very much.
By Mr. DURBIN:
S. 3058. A bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to establish fair
and consistent eligibility requirements
for graduate medical schools operating
outside the United States and Canada;
to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 3058
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Foreign
Medical School Accountability Fairness Act
of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PURPOSE.
To establish consistent eligibility require-
ments for graduate medical schools oper-
ating outside of the United States and Can-
ada in order to increase accountability and
protect American students and taxpayer dol-
lars.
SEC. 3. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Three for-profit schools in the Carib-
bean have historically received nearly 3⁄4 of
all Federal funding under title IV of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070
et seq.) that goes to students enrolled at for-
eign graduate medical schools, despite those
three schools being exempt from meeting the
same eligibility requirements as the major-
ity of graduate medical schools located out-
side of the United States and Canada.
(2) The National Committee on Foreign
Medical Education and Accreditation and
the Department of Education recommend
that all foreign graduate medical schools
should be required to meet the same eligi-
bility requirements to participate in Federal
funding under title IV of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.).
(3) The attrition rate at United States
medical schools averaged 3.3 percent between
1993 and 2013, while rates at for-profit Carib-
bean medical schools have been known to
reach 30 percent.
(4) In 2019, residency match rates for for-
eign trained graduates averaged 59 percent
compared to 94 percent for graduates of
allopathic medical schools in the United
States.
(5) On average, students at for-profit med-
ical schools operating outside of the United
States and Canada amass more student debt
than those at medical schools in the United
States.
SEC. 4. REPEAL GRANDFATHER PROVISIONS.
Section 102(a)(2) of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002(a)(2)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking clause
(i) and inserting the following:
‘‘(i) in the case of a graduate medical
school located outside the United States—
‘‘(I) at least 60 percent of those enrolled in,
and at least 60 percent of the graduates of,
the graduate medical school outside the
United States were not persons described in
section 484(a)(5) in the year preceding the
year for which a student is seeking a loan
under part D of title IV; and
‘‘(II) at least 75 percent of the individuals
who were students or graduates of the grad-
uate medical school outside the United
States or Canada (both nationals of the
United States and others) taking the exami-
nations administered by the Educational
Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates
received a passing score in the year pre-
ceding the year for which a student is seek-
ing a loan under part D of title IV;’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (B)(iii), by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(V) EXPIRATION OF AUTHORITY.—The au-
thority of a graduate medical school de-
scribed in subclause (I) to qualify for partici-
pation in the loan programs under part D of
title IV pursuant to this clause shall expire
beginning on the first July 1 following the
date of enactment of the Foreign Medical
School Accountability Fairness Act of 2019.’’.
SEC. 5. LOSS OF ELIGIBILITY.
If a graduate medical school loses eligi-
bility to participate in the loan programs
under part D of title IV of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq.) due
to the enactment of the amendments made
by section 4, then a student enrolled at such
graduate medical school on or before the
date of enactment of this Act may, notwith-
standing such loss of eligibility, continue to
be eligible to receive a loan under such part
D while attending such graduate medical
school in which the student was enrolled
upon the date of enactment of this Act, sub-
ject to the student continuing to meet all
applicable requirements for satisfactory aca-
demic progress, until the earliest of—
(1) withdrawal by the student from the
graduate medical school;
(2) completion of the program of study by
the student at the graduate medical school;
or
(3) the fourth June 30 after such loss of eli-
gibility.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 1257. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. CORNYN
(for himself, Mr. KING, and Mr. BROWN)) pro-
posed an amendment to the bill S. 457, to re-
quire that $1 coins issued during 2019 honor
President George H.W. Bush and to direct
the Secretary of the Treasury to issue bul-
lion coins during 2019 in honor of Barbara
Bush.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 1257. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
CORNYN (for himself, Mr. KING, and Mr.
BROWN)) proposed an amendment to the
bill S. 457, to require that $1 coins
issued during 2019 honor President
George H.W. Bush and to direct the
Secretary of the Treasury to issue bul-
lion coins during 2019 in honor of Bar-
bara Bush; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘President
George H.W. Bush and First Spouse Barbara
Bush Coin Act’’.
SEC. 2. COINS HONORING PRESIDENT GEORGE
H.W. BUSH AND FIRST SPOUSE BAR-
BARA BUSH.
(a) CIRCULATING $1 COINS HONORING PRESI-
DENT GEORGE H.W. BUSH.—Notwithstanding
subsections (d), (n)(2)(E), (n)(3), (n)(4), and
(n)(8) of section 5112 of title 31, United States
Code, in addition to the coins to be issued
under subsections (r) and (w) of such section
5112, and in accordance with the other provi-
sions of subsection (n) of such section 5112,
the Secretary of the Treasury, beginning on
January 1, 2020, shall mint and issue $1 coins
that bear—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE6.023 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S7058 December 16, 2019
(1) the image of President George H.W.
Bush; and
(2) an inscription of the year ‘‘2020’’.
(b) BULLION COINS HONORING FIRST SPOUSE
BARBARA BUSH.—Notwithstanding para-
graphs (1) and (5)(C) of section 5112(o) of title
31, United States Code, and in accordance
with the other provisions of such section
5112(o), the Secretary of the Treasury, begin-
ning on January 1, 2020, shall mint and issue
bullion coins that bear—
(1) the image of First Spouse Barbara
Bush; and
(2) an inscription of the year ‘‘2020’’.
SEC. 3. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.
The Secretary of the Treasury shall take
such actions as may be necessary to ensure
that the minting and issuing of coins under
this Act will not result in any net cost to the
United States Government.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
have a request for one committee to
meet during today’s session of the Sen-
ate. It has the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committee is author-
ized to meet during today’s session of
the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON RULES AND ADMINISTRATION
The Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Monday,
December 16, 2019, at 5:45 p.m., to con-
duct a hearing on the nomination of J.
Brett Blanton, of Virginia, to be Archi-
tect of the Capitol.
f
PRESIDENT GEORGE H.W. BUSH
AND BARBARA BUSH COIN ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of S. 457 and the
Senate proceed to its immediate con-
sideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 457) to require that $1 coins
issued during 2019 honor President George
H.W. Bush and to direct the Secretary of the
Treasury to issue bullion coins during 2019 in
honor of Barbara Bush.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Cornyn substitute
amendment at the desk be considered
and agreed to; that the bill, as amend-
ed, be considered read a third time and
passed; and that the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 1257) was agreed
to as follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘President
George H.W. Bush and First Spouse Barbara
Bush Coin Act’’.
SEC. 2. COINS HONORING PRESIDENT GEORGE
H.W. BUSH AND FIRST SPOUSE BAR-
BARA BUSH.
(a) CIRCULATING $1 COINS HONORING PRESI-
DENT GEORGE H.W. BUSH.—Notwithstanding
subsections (d), (n)(2)(E), (n)(3), (n)(4), and
(n)(8) of section 5112 of title 31, United States
Code, in addition to the coins to be issued
under subsections (r) and (w) of such section
5112, and in accordance with the other provi-
sions of subsection (n) of such section 5112,
the Secretary of the Treasury, beginning on
January 1, 2020, shall mint and issue $1 coins
that bear—
(1) the image of President George H.W.
Bush; and
(2) an inscription of the year ‘‘2020’’.
(b) BULLION COINS HONORING FIRST SPOUSE
BARBARA BUSH.—Notwithstanding para-
graphs (1) and (5)(C) of section 5112(o) of title
31, United States Code, and in accordance
with the other provisions of such section
5112(o), the Secretary of the Treasury, begin-
ning on January 1, 2020, shall mint and issue
bullion coins that bear—
(1) the image of First Spouse Barbara
Bush; and
(2) an inscription of the year ‘‘2020’’.
SEC. 3. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.
The Secretary of the Treasury shall take
such actions as may be necessary to ensure
that the minting and issuing of coins under
this Act will not result in any net cost to the
United States Government.
The bill (S. 457), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed.
f
ARTISTIC RECOGNITION FOR
TALENTED STUDENTS ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of S. 2824
and the Senate proceed to its imme-
diate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 2824) to amend title 17, United
States Code, to require the Register of Copy-
rights to waive fees for filing an application
for registration of a copyright claim in cer-
tain circumstances, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be considered read
a third time and passed and the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (S. 2824) was ordered to be
engrossed for a third reading, was read
the third time, and passed as follows:
S. 2824
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Artistic
Recognition for Talented Students Act’’ or
the ‘‘ARTS Act’’.
SEC. 2. WAIVER OF FEES FOR WINNERS OF CER-
TAIN COMPETITIONS.
Section 708 of title 17, United States Code,
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(e)(1) In this subsection, the term ‘cov-
ered competition’ means—
‘‘(A) an art competition sponsored by the
Congressional Institute that is open only to
high school students; or
‘‘(B) the competition established under
section 3 of House Resolution 77, 113th Con-
gress, agreed to February 26, 2013.
‘‘(2) With respect to a work that wins a
covered competition, the Register of Copy-
rights—
‘‘(A) shall waive the requirement under
subsection (a)(1) with respect to an applica-
tion for registration of a copyright claim for
that work if that application is submitted to
the Copyright Office not later than the last
day of the calendar year following the year
in which the work claimed by the applica-
tion wins the covered competition (referred
to in this paragraph as the ‘covered year’);
and
‘‘(B) may waive a fee described in subpara-
graph (A) for an application submitted after
the end of the covered year if the fee would
have been waived under that subparagraph
had the application been submitted before
the last day of the covered year.’’.
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY,
DECEMBER 17, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Tuesday, Decem-
ber 17; further, that following the pray-
er and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate resume con-
sideration of the conference report to
accompany S. 1790 under the previous
order; finally, that the Senate recess
from 12:30 until 2:15 to allow for the
conference meetings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:48 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday,
December 17, 2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE6.021 S16DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1593
December 16, 2019
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. GLENN THOMPSON
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 16, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania. Madam
Speaker, on December 10, 2019, I was absent
from votes. Had I been present, I would have
voted nay on Roll Call No. 660; nay on Roll
Call No. 661; nay on Roll Call No. 662; yea on
Roll Call No. 663; nay on Roll Call No. 664;
yea on Roll Call No. 665; yea on Roll Call No.
666; and nay on Roll Call No. 667.
f
HONORING REYMUNDO BARRON
RUIZ
HON. ZOE LOFGREN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 16, 2019
Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize Reymundo Barron Ruiz, a Korean
War combat veteran, who recently received
his high school diploma and celebrated his
90th birthday.
Reymundo Barron Ruiz was born in Mexico
but spent much of his youth in Del Rio, Texas
with his mother, three brothers, and four sis-
ters. During the Great Depression, he at-
tended school, while working to help support
his family. His older brothers were called to
serve during World War II, and as the young-
est, Reymundo, stayed at home to support his
mother and sisters. When his older brothers
returned from war in 1945, two of them were
gravely injured and another relocated to Or-
egon, leaving Reymundo as the primary
breadwinner of his family.
While he was 17 years old, Reymundo at-
tended San Felipe High School and attended
class as often as he could, while providing for
his family. He would routinely travel with his
mother to the Santa Clara Valley to work in
the orchards and fields. This continued until
1950, when Reymundo was inducted into the
U.S. Army, before he could receive his high
school diploma. He then served in combat in
the Korean War, until he was honorably dis-
charged. Reymundo and his brothers were not
citizens when they fought for our country and
proudly became U.S. citizens for their combat
and military service.
When Reymundo returned from the U.S.
Army, he relocated with his mother to San
Jose, California in pursuit of a better life. In
1954, he married Adelaida Macias and raised
six children. As a young husband and father,
Reymundo resumed and continued his edu-
cation at night, while working day jobs as a la-
borer. In the evenings, he worked to improve
his English while also studying chemistry and
metallurgy in night school.
In the 1960s, Reymundo worked in the bur-
geoning electronics and semiconductor indus-
try. Despite having no formal degree or di-
ploma, he was recognized by the National
Semiconductor Corporation as a co-inventor of
processes and methods for electro-plating
computer chips during the early stages of the
Silicon Valley computer industry.
After his retirement in 1992, Reymundo has
devoted his time to the betterment of his fam-
ily and community. He has volunteered at the
local public schools and also helped establish
the McLaughlin Corridor Neighborhood Asso-
ciation, as one of their founders.
An extraordinary role model, he taught his
children, grandchildren, and great-grand-
children, the importance of education and self-
less service to others. Now his family includes
teachers, law enforcement officers, active and
retired military, as well as other public serv-
ants.
Reymundo always had the regret that he
had not received his high school diploma.
However, this year on November 11, he was
recognized as a 2019 graduate of Del Rio
High School and received his diploma, 69
years after he joined the U.S. Army and a
month before his 90th birthday.
I wish to congratulate Mr. Reymundo Barron
Ruiz on a life extraordinarily well-lived and for
receiving his high school diploma. I thank Mr.
Ruiz, for his service and for his contributions
to our country and community.
f
CONGRATULATING COMMAND SER-
GEANT MAJOR ANN MARIE
SYDNOR ON HER RETIREMENT
FROM THE UNITED STATES
ARMY
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 16, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Command Sergeant Major Ann
Marie Sydnor on her retirement from the
United States Army.
CSM Sydnor is a native of Rock Island, Illi-
nois and a graduate of Rock Island High
School. She attended Basic Training and Ad-
vanced Individual Training in 1992 at Fort
Jackson, South Carolina, graduating as a Unit
Supply Specialist. She held many leadership
positions during her career in the U.S. Army,
such as Squad Leader, Supply Sergeant, Pla-
toon Sergeant, Senior Drill Sergeant, Battalion
S4 NCOIC, Supply Accounting NCOIC, G4
Multi-Class Logistics NCOIC, First Sergeant,
Support Operations Sergeant Major, Battalion
Command Sergeant Major, Brigade Command
Sergeant Major and U.S. Army Command G4
Sergeant Major. CSM Sydnor has been sta-
tioned at home and abroad on various impor-
tant assignments and has earned numerous
awards and decorations, including the Legion
of Merit, Bronze Star Medal, Meritorious Serv-
ice Medal and several others. She exemplifies
patriotism, determination and passion.
It is because of community leaders such as
Command Sergeant Major Ann Marie Sydnor
that I am especially proud to serve Illinois’
17th Congressional District. Madam Speaker, I
would like to again formally congratulate CSM
Ann Marie Sydnor on her retirement from the
United States Army.
f
STRATA-G, 2019 DREAM BIG SMALL
BUSINESS OF THE YEAR AWARD
WINNER
HON. TIM BURCHETT
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 16, 2019
Mr. BURCHETT. Madam Speaker, today I
recognize Knoxville-based engineering firm
Strata-G on winning the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce’s 2019 Dream Big Small Business
of the Year Award.
Strata-G was founded in 2002 by retired
Navy veteran Dan Hurst. Since then, the Stra-
ta-G team has grown to include more than
200 engineers, scientists, safety professionals
and project managers that provide technical
support to clients in environmental, energy,
defense, utility and infrastructure sectors.
Strata-G has received numerous awards for
both its outstanding engineering services and
focus on community service. The firm supports
numerous charities, non-profits and land stew-
ardship initiatives. The Small Business of the
Year Award came with a check for $25,000,
which Strata-G is investing in two of its com-
munity partners: Knoxville Area Rescue Min-
istries and Westview Community School.
It’s an honor to have Strata-G located in
Tennessee’s Second District, and I know I
speak for many in East Tennessee when I say
congratulations on this prestigious award.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF LINA FAT
HON. DORIS O. MATSUI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 16, 2019
Ms. MATSUI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the remarkable life of my dear friend
Lina Fat. Lina was not only the woman cred-
ited with building the Fat Family Restaurant
Group empire, but an astounding woman and
example for the rest of Sacramento. As we
mourn this tremendous loss, I ask all my col-
leagues to join me in honoring her life and leg-
acy.
Born Po Ying Yue in Hong Kong in 1938,
Lina moved to the United States to attend col-
lege in Tennessee. After she graduated, she
moved on to attend UC San Francisco Med-
ical Center’s School of Pharmacy, where she
met her husband Ken. Although Lina and Ken
originally became medical professionals, in
1974, Lina Fat changed careers to help her
family expand and open the Fat City Bar &
Cafe in Old Sacramento.
Lina went on to become a trailblazer and an
industry icon. Her generous and dynamic soul
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16DE8.001 E16DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1594 December 16, 2019
permeated through everything that she
achieved. Her accolades were many—she
was named both Businesswoman and Res-
taurateur of the Year in Sacramento. She also
was the beating heart behind the Sacramento
World Music and Dance Festival. Yet, behind
it all was her everlasting dedication and love
for her community.
Lina Fat will continue to stand as an exam-
ple to us all. Her life and legacy are symbolic
of the convergence of culture, ideas, and com-
munity that are woven tight into the fabric that
makes up the tapestry of Sacramento’s es-
sence. Her kindness, grace, and dedication to
our region will never be forgotten.
As we mourn this tremendous loss, I ask all
my colleagues to join me in honoring her life
and legacy. She is survived by her husband
Ken; their children, J.C., Kevin and Diana; and
various family members and friends. May we
all find comfort in the incredible legacy she will
leave behind.
f
CELEBRATING THE CLERMONT
COUNTY CHAMBER OF COM-
MERCE’S 50TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. BRAD R. WENSTRUP
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 16, 2019
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the 50th Anniversary of the Clermont
County Chamber of Commerce.
The Clermont Chamber of Commerce has a
rich history of working to enhance the
Clermont County community and providing
quality services and employment opportunities
to its residents. The Chamber represents ap-
proximately 800 businesses and individuals
from around the area.
As a pillar of the community, the Chamber
has grown to become the 3rd largest Greater
Cincinnati Chamber of Commerce and plays a
leading role in the economic development and
continued success of Clermont County and
the Greater Cincinnati region.
I am thankful to have such a positive work-
ing relationship with the Clermont County
Chamber of Commerce and look forward to
fifty more years of collaboration in the name of
bettering Clermont County, its businesses, and
those we serve.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE WIS-
CONSIN ARMY CADETS’ 25TH AN-
NIVERSARY
HON. MIKE GALLAGHER
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 16, 2019
Mr. GALLAGHER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the 25th anniversary of the
Wisconsin Army Cadets.
The Wisconsin Army Cadets is a youth mili-
tary training and career exploration program
based in Appleton, Wisconsin that provides
young men and women ages 12 to 20 years
old with hands-on, uniform-on, living experi-
ence to assist them in deciding on a military
career. Cadets embrace and represent the
Army’s core values of loyalty, duty, respect,
selfless service, honor, integrity, and personal
courage. The program aims to enhance the
character and leadership ability of Cadets.
During the program, Cadets participate in
monthly drill events, train in common task war-
rior skills, learn U.S. Army weapons systems,
and partake in military science excursions and
field training at Fort McCoy. Cadets also en-
gage in community service by supporting
events like the Old Glory Honor Flight, Armed
Services Day, and local veteran’s events and
parades. In addition, the program serves its
chartering partner, the Wisconsin National
Guard, during times of deployment by sup-
porting Rear detachment community outreach
missions such as clothing and food drives,
color guards, Purple Heart ceremonies, and
soldier funerals.
The Wisconsin Army Cadets Appleton unit
was founded in 1994 by COL Brian Blahnik.
Since its existence, the program has provided
military career education to over 5,000 youth
Cadets. The Appleton unit has seen at least
500 young men and women join the Armed
Forces directly from its ranks. The Wisconsin
program has been used as a model for Army
youth programs across the country and has
been recognized as one of the top military
youth programs in the nation.
Madam Speaker, it is my honor to congratu-
late Wisconsin Army Cadets on their 25th year
in operation. I wish the program many more
years of continued success.
f
CALLING FOR TURKEY TO IMME-
DIATELY RELEASE KURDISH PO-
LITICAL PRISONER SELAHATTIN
DEMIRTAŞ
HON. JAMIE RASKIN
OF MARYLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 16, 2019
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, today I rise
to renew my call for President Recep Tayyip
Erdoğan of Turkey to immediately release
Kurdish political prisoner Selahattin Demirtaş,
who has been held in prison for more than
three years.
Last week, we celebrated Human Rights
Day. Every year on December 10th, we com-
memorate the historic day in 1948 when the
United Nations General Assembly adopted the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, pro-
claiming that all people, by their inherent dig-
nity as members of the human family, are enti-
tled to certain universal rights, no matter who
they are, where they come from, what they
believe in, or how they pray or think.
Seventy-one years later, under Erdoğan,
Turkey has conducted a campaign of repres-
sion against anyone who dares disagree with
his barbaric policies. He has put the Dictator’s
Playbook into action, arresting journalists, tar-
geting academics, threatening judicial inde-
pendence, and jailing rival political leaders,
such as Selahattin Demirtaş and other mem-
bers of the Peoples’ Democratic Party. As an
Executive Committee Member of the Tom
Lantos Human Rights Commission, I am
proud to stand with Demirtaş and to advocate
for his immediate release.
The bipartisan Lantos Commission is
charged with promoting, defending, and advo-
cating for international human rights as en-
shrined in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, such as the right not to be subjected
to arbitrary arrest or detention, the right to
freedom of opinion and expression, and the
right to take part in government, directly or
through freely chosen representatives. These
are some of the rights that President Erdoğan
has callously disregarded in his continued im-
prisonment of Demirtaş. As fellow parliamen-
tarians, we cannot simply look the other way
when a colleague is targeted by an oppressive
regime simply because their party is out of
power.
Today, I call on my House colleagues to
stand with Selahattin Demirtaş. I call on Presi-
dent Erdoğan to immediately release not only
Demirtaş, but every political prisoner who is
being incarcerated for advocating for democ-
racy and human rights in Turkey. We must
stand together with all those who stand up for
human rights and democracy in the face of
tyranny.
f
CONGRATULATING TANNER WHIP-
PLE ON HIS WIN AT THE SIX
DAY INTERNATIONAL ENDURO IN
PORTUGAL
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 16, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Tanner Whipple for his win at the
Six Day International Enduro in Portugal. The
six-day, 1,140-mile, off-road motorcycle race
started in 1913, and is now in its 94th year.
This year, Tanner took home the gold medal
after competing against 30 other countries.
Tanner was born into a racing family and
has been riding since he was four years-old.
He won the gold medal by being within 10
percent of the fastest person in his class divi-
sion. Tanner competed against 30 other coun-
tries and is the first rider to represent the
Quad-Cities Area since 1979. This is the most
difficult race he says he has ever competed in.
The weather and terrain were obstacles, but
Tanner was able to surmount them to win the
gold. He says his favorite part about riding
was the adrenaline rush. Tanner is an exam-
ple of the importance of dedication and a
strong work ethic. With his talent and passion,
I am proud to see him represent Colona, Illi-
nois so well in the world.
It is because of leaders such as Tanner that
I am especially proud to serve Illinois’ 17th
Congressional District. Madam Speaker, I
would like to again formally congratulate Tan-
ner Whipple on his win at the Six Day Inter-
national Enduro in Portugal.
f
RECOGNIZING THE OUTSTANDING
WORK OF ANGELA SALO
HON. DEREK KILMER
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 16, 2019
Mr. KILMER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Angela Salo for her unparalleled
commitment to her fifth-grade students at
DeLong Elementary School in Tacoma, Wash-
ington. In October, Angie’s work for our com-
munity was recognized nationally, when she
received the National Science Foundation’s
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16DE8.005 E16DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1595
December 16, 2019
Presidential Award for Excellence in Mathe-
matics and Science Teaching.
This award recognizes outstanding K–12
teachers for their contributions to the teaching
and learning of science, technology, engineer-
ing, mathematics, and computer science.
Angie’s passion for science is reflected in the
unique opportunities afforded to her students,
including Skype calls with Brazilian fifth-grad-
ers to discuss climate change and coding les-
sons featuring LEGO robotics.
For Angie, the award is just the latest in an
impressive 22-year career that has seen her
make an enduring impact on countless young
students in the Tacoma Public Schools sys-
tem. Indeed, there is no greater testament to
Angie’s dedication to teaching than her stu-
dents. Each day, they arrive smiling and curi-
ous, ready to take in the knowledge that will
soon allow them to help solve the problems of
today and tomorrow.
Madam Speaker, we are extraordinarily
lucky to have Angie in our district. Her devo-
tion in the classroom is a service not only to
her students, but to us all. I am honored to
stand before Congress today and recognize
her important work.
f
REMEMBERING WT2C CARL ELLIS
BARNES, PALAWAN MASSACRE
HON. TJ COX
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 16, 2019
Mr. COX of California. Madam Speaker,
today, I ask my colleagues to pause in mem-
ory of 139 soldiers, airmen, Marines, and sail-
ors who perished 75 years ago this month. On
December 14, 1944, in the midst of World War
II, on the Philippines island of Palawan they
were massacred as prisoners of war (POWs).
They had just completed building a Japanese
airfield that is used today as the Antonio
Bautista Air Base, an important anchor of the
U.S.-Philippines alliance.
One of the men murdered, Water Tender
2C Carl Ellis Barnes, hailed from the Central
Valley in California. He had arrived in the Phil-
ippines from China aboard the Yangtze River
gunboat USS Ohau (PR–6) days before Japan
attacked Pearl Harbor and the Philippines.
During the next five months of combat, the
warship operated in and around Manila Bay
on inshore patrol. Barnes became a POW on
May 6, 1942 when the island fortress of Cor-
regidor was surrendered.
In August 1942, he was taken to Palawan
Island on the Sulu Sea with over 300 POWs,
most of whom had survived the infamous Ba-
taan Death March. The POWs were tasked
with building an airfield for the Imperial Japa-
nese Army. They endured arduous manual
labor while being starved, denied medical
care, and routinely and capriciously beaten.
By December 1944, only 150 POWs were still
held on the island and American forces were
beginning to liberate the Philippines.
At noon on December 14, 1944, the POWs
were sent to their recently constructed air raid
trenches. Quickly, the Japanese troops
doused them with buckets of airplane fuel and
set them afire with flaming torches, followed
by hand grenades and machine gun fire. Mi-
raculously, 11 men escaped to the sea and
were rescued by Filipino guerrillas.
Thus, today we remember these brave
souls who labored and perished so far from
home. The airfield they built is one of the sites
of our Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agree-
ment with the Philippines that helps bind our
historic alliance with the Philippines. WT2c
Barnes is buried in Jefferson Barracks Na-
tional Cemetery, Missouri with most of his fel-
low POWs from the Palawan Massacre. Never
Forgotten.
f
HONORING MAJOR GENERAL
GREGORY LUSK FOR 40 YEARS
OF MILITARY SERVICE
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 16, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Major General Greg Lusk for 40
years of military service. Appointed by North
Carolina Governor Beverly Perdue, Major
General Lusk has served as the 40th Adjutant
General for the North Carolina National Guard
since 2010.
Over the years, Major General Lusk has an-
swered historic calls to duty on behalf of our
nation and state. He began his extraordinary
career as a project officer with the 120th In-
fantry and retires today as Adjutant General
for the North Carolina National Guard.
Major General Lusk served as the principal
military advisor to North Carolina Governors
Beverly Perdue, Pat McCrory, and Roy Coo-
per and led nearly 12,000 soldiers and airmen
and over 18,000 full-time federal and state
employees across our state. His leadership
transformed the North Carolina National Guard
from a strategic force to an operational re-
serve force and built readiness and reliability
across all units. Described by colleagues as a
Soldier’s General, he has saved countless
lives in his response to historic hurricanes,
floods, winter storms, and periods of civil un-
rest.
A decorated public servant, Major General
Lusk represents the best our nation has to
offer and we will look up to his leadership for
generations to come. I know I speak for every-
one in the great state of North Carolina when
I say we are truly grateful for his tireless serv-
ice and cannot thank him enough. I would like
to offer my most heartfelt appreciation and
wish him a long and happy retirement.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
honoring Major General Greg Lusk for his 40
years of military service.
f
2019 FORT WORTH BUSINESS
EXECUTIVE OF THE YEAR
HON. KAY GRANGER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 16, 2019
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor longtime Fort Worth business
leader Edward P. Bass, chairman of the Fine
Line Group, as the 2019 Fort Worth Business
Executive of the Year. Mr. Bass is a visionary
business leader, conservationist, and philan-
thropist who has made and continues to make
outstanding contributions to the cultural and
economic development of Fort Worth.
Mr. Bass actively champions Fort Worth,
supports its institutions, and pursues projects
that enhance the lives of its citizens. He
serves as Chairman of the Board of the Fort
Worth Stock Show and Rodeo, as the Vice
Chairman of the Botanical Research Institute
of Texas, and as Chairman Emeritus of Per-
forming Arts Fort Worth. Mr. Bass developed,
and in 1998 opened, the Nancy Lee and Perry
R. Bass Performance Hall, a building noted at
the time as the ‘‘last great hall of the century.’’
Reflecting Mr. Bass’ passion for broadening
education opportunities for youth, the Chil-
dren’s Education Program at Bass Hall has
hosted more than 1.4 million schoolchildren for
specially presented education performances
by world-class artists.
Most recently, Mr. Bass lead the develop-
ment of the 14,000 seat Dickies Arena in Fort
Worth. Dickies Arena will bring a wide variety
of programing to Fort Worth, including con-
certs, family shows, sporting events, commu-
nity events, and will be the new home to the
Fort Worth Stock Show rodeo performances.
The new arena is intended to be diverse and
inclusive, a founding value of the arena and
Mr. Bass.
Forever a Texan, Mr. Bass and his wife
Sasha live in the Sundance Square residential
building he developed, where they enjoy expe-
riencing the vibrant life and culture of down-
town Fort Worth. His commitment to our city’s
overall prosperity and his many accomplish-
ments make him most deserving of this pres-
tigious award.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, De-
cember 17, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
DECEMBER 18
Time to be announced
Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nation of Jovita Carranza, of Illinois,
to be Administrator of the Small Busi-
ness Administration.
TBA
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
Business meeting to consider S. 482, to
strengthen the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, to combat international
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16DE8.010 E16DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1596 December 16, 2019
cybercrime, and to impose additional
sanctions with respect to the Russian
Federation, and other pending calendar
business.
S–116
10 a.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine the Depart-
ment of Justice Office of the Inspector
General Foreign Intelligence Surveil-
lance Act report, focusing on method-
ology, scope, and findings.
SD–342
Select Committee on Intelligence
To receive a closed briefing on certain
intelligence matters.
SH–219
DECEMBER 19
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the impacts
of wildfire on electric grid reliability
and efforts to mitigate wildfire risk
and increase grid resiliency.
SD–366
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M16DE8.000 E16DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
REMARKS
D1379
Monday, December 16, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S7037–S7058
Measures Introduced: Ten bills were introduced, as
follows: S. 3052–3061. Page S7048
Measures Reported:
S. 2513, to provide for joint reports by relevant
Federal agencies to Congress regarding incidents of
terrorism, with an amendment. (S. Rept. No.
116–175)
H.R. 135, to amend the Notification and Federal
Employee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of
2002 to strengthen Federal antidiscrimination laws
enforced by the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission and expand accountability within the
Federal Government, with an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–176)
Page S7048
Measures Passed:
President George H.W. Bush and First Spouse
Barbara Bush Coin Act: Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs was discharged from
further consideration of S. 457, to require that $1
coins issued during 2019 honor President George H.
W. Bush and to direct the Secretary of the Treasury
to issue bullion coins during 2019 in honor of Bar-
bara Bush, and the bill was then passed, after agree-
ing to the following amendment proposed thereto:
Page S7058
McConnell (for Cornyn) Amendment No. 1257, in
the nature of a substitute. Page S7057
Artistic Recognition for Talented Students Act:
Committee on the Judiciary was discharged from
further consideration of S. 2824, to amend title 17,
United States Code, to require the Register of Copy-
rights to waive fees for filing an application for reg-
istration of a copyright claim in certain cir-
cumstances, and the bill was then passed. Page S7058
Conference Reports:
National Defense Authorization Act—Agree-
ment: Senate resumed consideration of the con-
ference report to accompany S. 1790, to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for military ac-
tivities of the Department of Defense, for military
construction, and for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year. Pages S7037–38, S7042–46
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 76 yeas to 6 nays (Vote No. 398), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, having
voted in the affirmative, Senate agreed to the motion
to close further debate on the conference report to
accompany the bill. Page S7042
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that notwithstanding the provisions of Rule
XXII, at 11:45 a.m., on Tuesday, December 17,
2019, all post-cloture time be considered expired on
the conference report to accompany the bill, and that
Senate vote on the pending motion to waive the
budget act, if applicable, prior to a vote on adoption
of the conference report. Pages S7045–46
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the conference re-
port to accompany the bill, post-cloture, at approxi-
mately 10 a.m., on Tuesday, December 17, 2019.
Page S7058
Message from the President: Senate received the
following message from the President of the United
States:
Transmitting, pursuant to law, the legislation and
supporting documents to implement the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, received during
adjournment of the Senate on December 13, 2019;
which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
(PM–39) Pages S7047–48
McFarland Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the nomination of Matthew Walden
McFarland, of Ohio, to be United States District
Judge for the Southern District of Ohio. Page S7038
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur on Wednesday,
December 18, 2019. Page S7038
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16DE9.REC D16DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1380 December 16, 2019
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S7038
Singhal Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Anuraag Singhal, of
Florida, to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Florida. Page S7038
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Matthew Walden McFarland, of
Ohio, to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Ohio. Page S7038
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S7038
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S7038
Marston Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Karen Spencer
Marston, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Page S7038
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Anuraag Singhal, of Florida, to
be United States District Judge for the Southern
District of Florida. Pages S7038–39
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S7038
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S7038
Traynor Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Daniel Mack
Traynor, of North Dakota, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the District of North Dakota.
Page S7039
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Karen Spencer Marston, of
Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Page S7039
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S7039
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S7039
Dishman Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Jodi W. Dishman, of
Oklahoma, to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Oklahoma. Page S7039
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Daniel Mack Traynor, of North
Dakota, to be United States District Judge for the
District of North Dakota. Page S7039
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S7039
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S7039
Gallagher Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the nomination of John M. Galla-
gher, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Page S7039
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Jodi W. Dishman, of Okla-
homa, to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Oklahoma. Page S7039
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S7039
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S7039
Jones II Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Bernard Maurice
Jones II, of Oklahoma, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma.
Page S7039
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of John M. Gallagher, of Pennsyl-
vania, to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania. Page S7039
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S7039
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S7039
Vyskocil Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Mary Kay Vyskocil,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16DE9.REC D16DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1381
December 16, 2019
of New York, to be United States District Judge for
the Southern District of New York. Pages S7039–40
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Bernard Maurice Jones II, of
Oklahoma, to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Oklahoma. Page S7040
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S7039
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S7039
Riggs Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Kea Whetzal Riggs, of
New Mexico, to be United States District Judge for
the District of New Mexico. Page S7040
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Mary Kay Vyskocil, of New
York, to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of New York. Page S7040
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S7040
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S7040
Colville Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Robert J. Colville, of
Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Pennsylvania. Page S7040
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Kea Whetzal Riggs, of New
Mexico, to be United States District Judge for the
District of New Mexico. Page S7040
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S7040
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S7040
Liman Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Lewis J. Liman, of New
York, to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of New York. Page S7040
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Robert J. Colville, of Pennsyl-
vania, to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Pennsylvania. Page S7040
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S7040
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S7040
Brown Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Gary Richard Brown,
of New York, to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of New York. Page S7040
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Lewis J. Liman, of New York,
to be United States District Judge for the Southern
District of New York. Page S7040
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S7040
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S7040
Davis Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Stephanie Dawkins
Davis, of Michigan, to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan.
Pages S7040–41
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Gary Richard Brown, of New
York, to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of New York. Page S7041
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S7040
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S7040
Vote Correction—Agreement: A unanimous-con-
sent agreement was reached providing that Senator
King be permitted to change his vote from nay to
yea on Vote No. 397 since it will not affect the out-
come. Page S7042
Messages from the House: Page S7048
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S7048
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S7048–50
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16DE9.REC D16DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1382 December 16, 2019
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S7050–57
Additional Statements: Page S7047
Amendments Submitted: Page S7057
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S7058
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—398) Page S7042
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 6:48 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, De-
cember 17, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S7058.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Rules and Administration: Committee or-
dered favorably reported the nomination of J. Brett
Blanton, of Virginia, to be Architect of the Capitol.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 9 public
bills, H.R. 5434–5443; and 1 resolution, H.J. Res.
81, were introduced. Pages H10305–06
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H10306–07
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 2474, to amend the National Labor Rela-
tions Act, the Labor Management Relations Act,
1947, and the Labor-Management Reporting and
Disclosure Act of 1959, and for other purposes, with
an amendment (H. Rept. 116–347);
H.R. 2647, to adopt a certain California flamma-
bility standard as a Federal flammability standard to
protect against the risk of upholstered furniture
flammability, and for other purposes (H. Rept.
116–348);
H.R. 4227, to prohibit the submission to the Fed-
eral Communications Commission of broadband
internet access service coverage information or data
for the purposes of compiling an inaccurate
broadband coverage map (H. Rept. 116–349);
H.R. 4229, to require the Federal Communica-
tions Commission to issue rules relating to the col-
lection of data with respect to the availability of
broadband services, and for other purposes, with an
amendment (H. Rept. 116–350);
H.R. 4779, to extend the Undertaking Spam,
Spyware, And Fraud Enforcement With Enforcers
beyond Borders Act of 2006, and for other purposes
(H. Rept. 116–351);
H.R. 4998, to prohibit certain Federal loans,
grants, and subsidies from being used to purchase
communications equipment or services posing na-
tional security risks, to provide for the establishment
of a reimbursement program for the replacement of
communications equipment or services posing such
risks, and for other purposes, with amendments (H.
Rept. 116–352); and
H. Res. 765, providing for consideration of the
Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 1158) to au-
thorize cyber incident response teams at the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, and for other purposes;
providing for consideration of the Senate amendment
to the bill (H.R. 1865) to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint a coin in commemoration of
the opening of the National Law Enforcement Mu-
seum in the District of Columbia, and for other pur-
poses; and providing for the adoption of the resolu-
tion (H. Res. 761) permitting individuals to be ad-
mitted to the Hall of the House in order to obtain
footage of the House in session for inclusion in the
orientation film to be shown to visitors at the Cap-
itol Visitor Center (H. Rept. 116–353). Page H10305
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative McCollum to act as Speak-
er pro tempore for today. Page H10269
Recess: The House recessed at 12 noon and recon-
vened at 2 p.m. Page H10269
Order of Business—Consideration of H.R. 5430:
Agreed by unanimous consent that it be in order at
any time without intervention of any point of order
to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5430), to
implement the Agreement between the United
States of America, the United Mexican States, and
Canada attached as an Annex to the Protocol Replac-
ing the North American Free Trade Agreement, that
the bill be considered as read, that the bill be debat-
able for two hours equally divided and controlled by
the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader or their
respective designees, and that, pursuant to section
151 of the Trade Act of 1974, the previous question
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16DE9.REC D16DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1383
December 16, 2019
be considered as ordered on the bill to final passage
without intervening motion. Page H10269
Recess: The House recessed at 2:04 p.m. and recon-
vened at 2:45 p.m. Pages H10269–70
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Department of Veterans Affairs Contracting
Preference Consistency Act: H.R. 4920, to amend
title 38, United States Code, to provide for an ex-
ception to certain small business contracting require-
ments applicable to the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs procurement of certain goods and services cov-
ered under the Ability One program; Pages H10270–71
Small Airport Mothers’ Rooms Act of 2019: H.R.
3362, to amend title 49, United State Code, to re-
quire small hub airports to construct areas for nurs-
ing mothers; Pages H10280–82
Secure and Trusted Communications Networks
Act of 2019: H.R. 4998, amended, to prohibit cer-
tain Federal loans, grants, and subsidies from being
used to purchase communications equipment or serv-
ices posing national security risks, to provide for the
establishment of a reimbursement program for the
replacement of communications equipment or serv-
ices posing such risks; Pages H10282–86
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To pro-
hibit certain Federal subsidies from being used to
purchase communications equipment or services pos-
ing national security risks, to provide for the estab-
lishment of a reimbursement program for the re-
placement of communications equipment or services
posing such risks, and for other purposes.’’
Page H10286
Extending the Undertaking Spam, Spyware,
And Fraud Enforcement With Enforcers beyond
Borders Act of 2006: H.R. 4779, amended, to ex-
tend the Undertaking Spam, Spyware, And Fraud
Enforcement With Enforcers beyond Borders Act of
2006; Pages H10286–87
Broadband Deployment Accuracy and Techno-
logical Availability Act: H.R. 4229, amended, to
require the Federal Communications Commission to
issue rules relating to the collection of data with re-
spect to the availability of broadband services;
Pages H10287–91
Mapping Accuracy Promotes Services Act: H.R.
4227, to prohibit the submission to the Federal
Communications Commission of broadband internet
access service coverage information or data for the
purposes of compiling an inaccurate broadband cov-
erage map; Pages H10291–92
Safer Occupancy Furniture Flammability Act:
H.R. 2647, amended, to adopt a certain California
flammability standard as a Federal flammability
standard to protect against the risk of upholstered
furniture flammability; Pages H10292–94
Safe Sleep for Babies Act of 2019: H.R. 3172,
amended, to prohibit the manufacture for sale, offer
for sale, distribution in commerce, or importation
into the United States of any inclined sleeper for in-
fants; Pages H10294–95
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To pro-
vide that inclined sleepers for infants and crib
bumpers shall be considered banned hazardous prod-
ucts under section 8 of the Consumer Product Safety
Act, and for other purposes.’’; Page H10295
Grant Reporting Efficiency and Agreements
Transparency Act of 2019: Concurred in the Senate
amendment to H.R. 150, to modernize Federal grant
reporting; Pages H10295–98
Spokane Tribe of Indians of the Spokane Res-
ervation Equitable Compensation Act: S. 216, to
provide for equitable compensation to the Spokane
Tribe of Indians of the Spokane Reservation for the
use of tribal land for the production of hydropower
by the Grand Coulee Dam; Pages H10298–H10300
Columbia River In-Lieu and Treaty Fishing
Access Sites Improvement Act: S. 50, to authorize
the Secretary of the Interior to assess sanitation and
safety conditions at Bureau of Indian Affairs facilities
that were constructed to provide affected Columbia
River Treaty tribes access to traditional fishing
grounds and expend funds on construction of facili-
ties and structures to improve those conditions; and
Pages H10301–02
Eastern Band of Cherokee Historic Lands Reac-
quisition Act: H.R. 453, amended, to take certain
Federal lands in Tennessee into trust for the benefit
of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians.
Pages H10302–04
Recess: The House recessed at 5:46 p.m. and recon-
vened at 12:46 a.m. Pages H10304–05
Suspensions—Proceedings Postponed: The House
debated the following measures under suspension of
the rules. Further proceedings were postponed.
Identifying Barriers and Best Practices Study
Act: H.R. 4183, amended, to direct the Comptroller
General of the United States to conduct a study on
disability and pension benefits provided to members
of the National Guard and members of reserve com-
ponents of the Armed Forces by the Department of
Veterans Affairs; Pages H10271–72
Improving Confidence in Veterans’ Care Act:
H.R. 3530, amended, to amend title 38, United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16DE9.REC D16DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1384 December 16, 2019
States Code, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to enforce the licensure requirement for medical
providers of the Department of Veterans Affairs;
Pages H10272–75
Banning Smoking on Amtrak Act of 2019: H.R.
2726, to amend title 49, United States Code, to pro-
hibit smoking on Amtrak trains; Pages H10275–76
Hazard Eligibility and Local Projects Act: H.R.
2548, amended, to modify eligibility requirements
for certain hazard mitigation assistance programs;
Pages H10276–80
Funding Instruction for Safety, Health, and Se-
curity Avoids Fishing Emergencies Act: H.R. 4719,
amended, to amend the Federal share of the fishing
safety standards grants; and Pages H10278–80
Miracle Mountain Designation Act: H.R. 722,
to designate a mountain in the State of Utah as
‘‘Miracle Mountain’’. Pages H10300–01
Quorum Calls—Votes: There were no Yea and Nay
votes, and there were no Recorded votes. There were
no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 12:48 a.m.
Committee Meetings
RESTORING TAX FAIRNESS FOR STATES
AND LOCALITIES ACT; SENATE
AMENDMENT TO THE DHS CYBER HUNT
AND INCIDENT RESPONSE TEAMS ACT OF
2019; SENATE AMENDMENT TO THE
NATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT MUSEUM
COMMEMORATIVE COIN ACT
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 5377, the ‘‘Restoring Tax Fairness for States
and Localities Act’’, Senate Amendment to H.R.
1158, the ‘‘DHS Cyber Hunt and Incident Response
Teams Act of 2019’’ [Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2020]; and Senate Amendment to H.R. 1865,
the ‘‘National Law Enforcement Museum Com-
memorative Coin Act’’ [Further Consolidated Appro-
priations Act, 2020]. The Committee granted, by
nonrecord vote, a rule providing for consideration of
the Senate Amendment to H.R. 1158, the ‘‘DHS
Cyber Hunt and Incident Response Teams Act of
2019’’ [Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020], and
the Senate Amendment to H.R. 1865, the ‘‘National
Law Enforcement Museum Commemorative Coin
Act’’ [Further Consolidated Appropriations Act,
2020]. The rule provides for consideration of the
Senate amendment to H.R. 1158, the ‘‘DHS Cyber
Hunt and Incident Response Teams Act of 2019’’
[Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020]. The rule
makes in order a motion offered by the chair of the
Committee on Appropriations or her designee that
the House concur in the Senate amendment with an
amendment consisting of the text of Rules Com-
mittee Print 116–43. The rule waives all points of
order against consideration of the motion. The rule
provides that the Senate amendment and the motion
shall be considered as read. The rule provides one
hour of debate on the motion equally divided and
controlled by the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on Appropriations. The rule
also provides for the consideration of the Senate
amendment to H.R. 1865, the ‘‘National Law En-
forcement Museum Commemorative Coin Act’’. The
rule makes in order a motion offered by the chair of
the Committee on Appropriations or her designee
that the House concur in the Senate amendment
with an amendment consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–44, modified by the amend-
ment printed in the report of the Committee on
Rules accompanying this resolution. The rule waives
all points of order against consideration of the mo-
tion and provides that it shall not be subject to a
demand for division of the question. The rule pro-
vides that the Senate amendment and the motion
shall be considered as read. The rule provides one
hour of debate on the motion equally divided and
controlled by the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on Appropriations. The rule
provides that the chair of the Committee on Appro-
priations may insert in the Congressional Record not
later than December 17, 2019, such material as she
may deem explanatory of the Senate amendments
and the motions specified in the first two sections
of the rule. The rule provides that House Resolution
761 is hereby adopted. Testimony was heard from
Chairman Lowey, and Representatives Rogers of
Kentucky, Kaptur, Simpson, Visclosky, Calvert,
Aderholt, DeLauro, Cole, Price of North Carolina,
Diaz-Balart, Roybal-Allard, Fleischmann, Bishop of
Georgia, McCollum, Joyce of Ohio, Ryan, and Her-
rera Beutler.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D1341)
H.R. 887, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 877 East 1200 South
in Orem, Utah, as the ‘‘Jerry C. Washburn Post Of-
fice Building’’. Signed on December 12, 2019. (Pub-
lic Law 116–79)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16DE9.REC D16DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
DIGEST
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1385
December 16, 2019
H.R. 1252, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 6531 Van Nuys Bou-
levard in Van Nuys, California, as the ‘‘Marilyn
Monroe Post Office’’. Signed on December 12, 2019.
(Public Law 116–80)
H.R. 1253, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 13507 Van Nuys
Boulevard in Pacoima, California, as the ‘‘Ritchie
Valens Post Office Building’’. Signed on December
12, 2019. (Public Law 116–81)
H.R. 1526, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 200 Israel Road
Southeast in Tumwater, Washington, as the ‘‘Eva G.
Hewitt Post Office’’. Signed on December 12, 2019.
(Public Law 116–82)
H.R. 1844, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 66 Grove Court in
Elgin, Illinois, as the ‘‘Corporal Alex Martinez Me-
morial Post Office Building’’. Signed on December
12, 2019. (Public Law 116–83)
H.R. 1972, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 1100 West Kent Av-
enue in Missoula, Montana, as the ‘‘Jeannette Rankin
Post Office Building’’. Signed on December 13,
2019. (Public Law 116–84)
H.R. 2151, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 7722 South Main
Street in Pine Plains, New York, as the ‘‘Senior
Chief Petty Officer Shannon M. Kent Post Office’’.
Signed on December 13, 2019. (Public Law 116–85)
H.R. 2325, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 100 Calle Alondra in
San Juan, Puerto Rico, as the ‘‘65th Infantry Regi-
ment Post Office Building’’. Signed on December
13, 2019. (Public Law 116–86)
H.R. 2334, to designate the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs community-based outpatient clinic in
Odessa, Texas, as the ‘‘Wilson and Young Medal of
Honor VA Clinic’’. Signed on December 13, 2019.
(Public Law 116–87)
H.R. 2451, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 575 Dexter Street in
Central Falls, Rhode Island, as the ‘‘Elizabeth
Buffum Chace Post Office’’. Signed on December 13,
2019. (Public Law 116–88)
H.R. 3144, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 8520 Michigan Ave-
nue in Whittier, California, as the ‘‘Jose Ramos Post
Office Building’’. Signed on December 13, 2019.
(Public Law 116–89)
H.R. 3314, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 1750 McCulloch
Boulevard North in Lake Havasu City, Arizona, as
the ‘‘Lake Havasu City Combat Veterans Memorial
Post Office Building’’. Signed on December 13,
2019. (Public Law 116–90)
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
DECEMBER 17, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: business
meeting to consider S. 2695, to authorize the Secretary
of Agriculture to provide for the defense of United States
agriculture and food through the National Bio and Agro-
Defense Facility, and an original bill to release a federal
reversionary interest in Chester County, Tennessee, to
manage certain Federal land in Bath County, Virginia,
10:30 a.m., SR–328A.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: to hold hear-
ings to examine the nomination of Lanny Erdos, of Ohio,
to be Director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclama-
tion and Enforcement, Department of the Interior, 10
a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: business
meeting to consider S. 3051, to improve protections for
wildlife, the nomination of Robert J. Feitel, of Maryland,
to be Inspector General, Nuclear Regulatory Commission,
and 19 General Services Administration resolutions, 9:30
a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine the nominations of John Hennessey-Niland, of Illi-
nois, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Palau, Dorothy
Shea, of North Carolina, to be Ambassador to the Leba-
nese Republic, Todd C. Chapman, of Texas, to be Am-
bassador to the Federative Republic of Brazil, and Donald
Wright, of Virginia, to be Ambassador to the United Re-
public of Tanzania, all of the Department of State, and
other pending nominations, 10 a.m., SD–419.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
business meeting to consider the nomination of Paul J.
Ray, of Tennessee, to be Administrator of the Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Manage-
ment and Budget, 9:30 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
tackling the opioid crisis, focusing on a whole-of-govern-
ment approach, 10 a.m., SD–226.
House
Committee on Agriculture, Subcommittee on Conservation
and Forestry, hearing entitled ‘‘Access to Conservation
Programs by Historically Underserved Farmers and
Ranchers’’, 10 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Subcommittee on Na-
tional Security, hearing entitled ‘‘U.S. Counterterrorism
Priorities and Challenges in Africa’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H. Res.
755, Impeaching Donald John Trump, President of the
United States, for high crimes and misdemeanors, 11
a.m., H–313 Capitol.
Committee on Ways and Means, Full Committee, markup
on H. Res. 746, a Resolution to Support and Reform the
World Trade Organization (WTO); and H.R. 5430, to
implement the Agreement between the United States of
America, the United Mexican States, and Canada attached
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16DE9.REC D16DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1386 December 16, 2019
as an Annex to the Protocol Replacing the North Amer-
ican Free Trade Agreement, 11 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of December 17 through
December 20, 2019
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of
the conference report to accompany S. 1790, Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act, post-cloture, and
vote on adoption of the conference report to accom-
pany the bill at 11:45 a.m.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: Decem-
ber 17, business meeting to consider S. 2695, to author-
ize the Secretary of Agriculture to provide for the defense
of United States agriculture and food through the Na-
tional Bio and Agro-Defense Facility, and an original bill
to release a federal reversionary interest in Chester Coun-
ty, Tennessee, to manage certain Federal land in Bath
County, Virginia, 10:30 a.m., SR–328A.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: December 17,
to hold hearings to examine the nomination of Lanny
Erdos, of Ohio, to be Director of the Office of Surface
Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the
Interior, 10 a.m., SD–366.
December 19, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine the impacts of wildfire on electric grid reliability
and efforts to mitigate wildfire risk and increase grid re-
siliency, 9:30 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: December
17, business meeting to consider S. 3051, to improve
protections for wildlife, the nomination of Robert J.
Feitel, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, and 19 General Services Admin-
istration resolutions, 9:30 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Foreign Relations: December 17, to hold
hearings to examine the nominations of John Hennessey-
Niland, of Illinois, to be Ambassador to the Republic of
Palau, Dorothy Shea, of North Carolina, to be Ambas-
sador to the Lebanese Republic, Todd C. Chapman, of
Texas, to be Ambassador to the Federative Republic of
Brazil, and Donald Wright, of Virginia, to be Ambas-
sador to the United Republic of Tanzania, all of the De-
partment of State, and other pending nominations, 10
a.m., SD–419.
December 18, Full Committee, business meeting to
consider S. 482, to strengthen the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, to combat international cybercrime, and to
impose additional sanctions with respect to the Russian
Federation, and other pending calendar business, 9:30
a.m., S–116, Capitol.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
December 17, business meeting to consider the nomina-
tion of Paul J. Ray, of Tennessee, to be Administrator of
the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office
of Management and Budget, 9:30 a.m., SD–342.
December 18, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector
General Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act report, fo-
cusing on methodology, scope, and findings, 10 a.m.,
SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: December 17, to hold hear-
ings to examine tackling the opioid crisis, focusing on a
whole-of-government approach, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Decem-
ber 18, business meeting to consider the nomination of
Jovita Carranza, of Illinois, to be Administrator of the
Small Business Administration, Time to be announced,
Room to be announced.
Select Committee on Intelligence: December 18, to receive
a closed briefing on certain intelligence matters, 10 a.m.,
SH–219.
House Committees
Committee on Education and Labor, December 18, Sub-
committee on Higher Education and Workforce Invest-
ment, hearing entitled ‘‘The Future of Work: Ensuring
Workers are Competitive in a Rapidly Changing Econ-
omy, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, December 18, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 3373, the ‘‘Office of Inter-
national Disability Rights Act’’; H.R. 5338, the ‘‘Global
Hope Act’’; S. 1340, the ‘‘Ebola Eradication Act of
2019’’; H.R. 4864, the ‘‘Global Child Thrive Act of
2019’’; H.R. 4508, the ‘‘Malala Yousafzai Scholarship
Act’’; H. Res. 752, supporting the rights of the people
of Iran to free expression, condemning the Iranian regime
for its crackdown on legitimate protests, and for other
purposes; H.R. 2343, the ‘‘Peace and Tolerance in Pales-
tinian Education Act’’; H. Res. 754, expressing the sense
of the House of Representatives that the United States
should continue to support the people of Nicaragua in
their peaceful efforts to promote democracy and human
rights, and use the tools under United States law to in-
crease political and financial pressure on the government
of Daniel Ortega; H.R. 630, the ‘‘Counterterrorism
Screening and Assistance Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3843, the
‘‘Countering Russian and Other Overseas Kleptocracy
Act’’; H.R. 2529, the ‘‘Richard G. Lugar and Ellen O.
Tauscher Act to Maintain Limits on Russian Nuclear
Forces’’; H.R. 2444, the ‘‘Eastern European Security Act’’;
H.R. 4331, the ‘‘Tibetan Policy and Support Act of
2019’’; and H.R. 3571, the ‘‘City and State Diplomacy
Act’’, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, December 19, Full
Committee, markup on H.R. 2575, the ‘‘AI in Govern-
ment Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3830, the ‘‘Taxpayers Right-
to-Know Act’’; H.R. 3883, the ‘‘Restore the Partnership
Act’’; H.R. 3941, the ‘‘Federal Risk and Authorization
Management Program Authorization Act’’; H.R. 5214,
the ‘‘Representative Payee Fraud Prevention Act of
2019’’; S. 375, the ‘‘Payment Integrity Information Act
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16DE9.REC D16DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1387
December 16, 2019
of 2019’’; and postal naming measures, 9 a.m., 2154
Rayburn.
December 19, Full Committee, continue hearing enti-
tled ‘‘H.R. 51: Making D.C. the 51st State’’, 12 p.m.,
2154 Rayburn.
December 19, Subcommittee on Environment, hearing
entitled ‘‘Climate Change, Part IV: Current Economic Ef-
fects of Climate Change and the Costs of Inaction’’, 3
p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, December 18,
Subcommittee on Energy, markup on H.R. 2986, the
‘‘BEST Act’’; H.R. 5374, the ‘‘Advanced Geothermal Re-
search and Development Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 5428,
the ‘‘Grid Modernization Research and Development Act
of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16DE9.REC D16DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1388 December 16, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, December 17
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the conference report to accompany S. 1790, Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act, post-cloture, and vote
on adoption of the conference report to accompany the
bill at 11:45 a.m.
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
9 a.m., Tuesday, December 17
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Consideration of the Senate
amendment to H.R. 1158—DHS Cyber Incident Re-
sponse Teams Act of 2019 (Subject to a Rule).
Consideration of the Senate amendment to H.R.
1865—National Law Enforcement Museum Commemora-
tive Coin Act (Subject to a Rule).
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Burchett, Tim, Tenn., E1593
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E1593, E1594
Cox, TJ, Calif., E1595
Gallagher, Mike, Wisc., E1594
Granger, Kay, Tex., E1595
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E1595
Kilmer, Derek, Wash., E1594
Lofgren, Zoe, Calif., E1593
Matsui, Doris O., Calif., E1593
Raskin, Jamie, Md., E1594
Thompson, Glenn, Pa., E1593
Wenstrup, Brad R., Ohio, E1594
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:40 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D16DE9.REC D16DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
DIGEST
