Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H1395
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2019 No. 24
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mrs. MURPHY).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
February 7, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable STEPHANIE
N. MURPHY to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
BIGOTRY AND POLICY WILL NOT
BE TOLERATED
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, and still I rise. I rise today, Madam
Speaker, to take a stand for liberty
and justice for all against bigotry and
hatred.
I rise to call to our attention, Madam
Speaker, that the refusal to resign be-
cause of blatant bigotry is a symptom,
the refusal to resign when it is obvious,
intuitively obvious to the most casual
observer, that there is the bigotry. The
refusal to resign when there is clear
and convincing evidence of bigotry,
when there is guilt beyond all doubt,
when there is a smoking gun, the re-
fusal to resign under these cir-
cumstances is a symptom.
The problem is at the Presidential
level. It is the refusal to take on a
President who has exhibited bigotry in
policy. When we allow bigotry in policy
to proceed with immunity, we allow
persons to believe that they, too, can
emulate that which comes from the
highest office in the land.
Madam Speaker, this level of bigotry
in policy cannot be tolerated. You
have, in Virginia, a Klansman and
blackface next to each other in a year-
book. It has been acknowledged as that
of the Governor.
With that acknowledgment and with
that additional indication that it was
done on a previous occasion, blackface,
there is enough evidence not only to
ask that the Governor resign, but to
demand that he do so.
But I understand why this level of
bigotry is going to be tolerated to a
certain extent, because we don’t want
to take on the President. If we allow
the President to exist with his bigotry,
how can we demand with any degree of
credibility that the Governor resign?
We have to start at the top. This
level of bigotry is trickling down to
this extent that people are going to
refuse to acknowledge their bigotry.
They will lie and deny. They will do all
that they can to stay in office.
We have to take a stand, and I stand
today to say that we cannot allow this
incident to go unchecked. Because
what will we do next when there is a
Nazi standing in a photograph and
there is a noose in a photograph, there
are swastikas?
This is going to continue. It doesn’t
end with Virginia. This is but one
symptom, and we have to do what we
have always done.
It has been our policy when this level
of bigotry surfaces, when it shows its
ugly head, we take it on. There is a
means by which we can deal with big-
otry in policy, but if we allow political
expediency—the belief that we ought to
defeat a bigoted President—to trump
the moral imperative to remove him
from office, the moral imperative to
impeach bigotry emanating in policy
from the Presidency, we have a moral
imperative to do so, and we can do so.
There is a committee that can con-
vene to deal with bigotry emanating
from the Presidency creating the
symptoms that we see in others who
refuse to leave office after their big-
otry has been revealed. There is a com-
mittee that we can convene. That com-
mittee is called the Congress of the
United States.
Any one Member of Congress can call
to the attention of this august body
that such thing has happened; and
when it is called to this body’s atten-
tion, we can take a vote, we can go on
record.
Are we going to allow bigotry to em-
anate from the Presidency or will we
go on record? I say we go on record.
I am one Member of Congress who,
after 400 years of bigotry and hatred
and slavery and all of these other ugly
features and evidence of harm to soci-
ety—forgive me for getting so wrapped
up in it, but I have to say it. After all
of this, for 400 years, it is time for Con-
gress to take this vote.
We have had 400 years to deal with it,
and we haven’t. What better way to
deal with bigotry in this country than
to say to the world: We will extricate a
President from office for his bigotry?
There will be a vote on impeachment,
regardless of what the Mueller commis-
sion says.
Bigotry in policy will not be toler-
ated.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.000 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1396 February 7, 2019
A BETTER POLICY TOWARD CUBA
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Massachusetts (Mr. MCGOVERN) for 5
minutes.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker,
our policy toward Cuba should be one
area where Democrats and Republicans
can find common ground.
There are not many communist coun-
tries left, but let’s consider that, when
it came to the old Soviet bloc or China
and Vietnam today, we have agreed on
the basics. We all differ with their
human rights practices, and we say so.
We stand up for our security inter-
ests. We cooperate when we can. We
support trade and citizen contact be-
cause they are good for our economy
and they increase our influence.
In this vein, let me praise a few Re-
publicans:
President Nixon for the opening to
China;
President Ford for the Helsinki Ac-
cords and the principle that people and
information should flow freely across
borders;
President Reagan for vastly expand-
ing engagement with the Soviet Union
and its people.
These are big achievements, none of
them terribly controversial, but Cuba
is an exception. Only with Cuba do we
regulate our own citizens’ contact.
Only there do we have a trade embargo
that limits trade and investment: six
decades of embargo, a virtual lifetime
of foreign policy failure.
President Trump clearly realized this
as a candidate when he supported
President Obama’s opening to Cuba. It
was a good idea to bring Cuba ‘‘into the
fold,’’ he said. Later, he changed his
view.
Now, led by his White House staff, he
wants to respond to Cuba’s support for
the Government of Venezuela by in-
creasing U.S. economic sanctions
against Cuba.
This is a mistake. It will do nothing
to change Cuba’s conduct; it will not
improve the situation in Venezuela;
and it will harm American interests.
Specifically, he is considering allow-
ing title 3 of the Helms–Burton Act to
go into effect. This will allow Ameri-
cans who lost property in Cuba, includ-
ing Cubans who later became U.S. citi-
zens, to go to U.S. courts to seek dam-
ages—three times the value of their
property—by suing Cuba, foreign, and
even American companies whose busi-
nesses in Cuba today are connected to
those properties.
The purpose, as the law’s authors
made clear in 1996, is to harm Cuba’s
economy by making it completely in-
hospitable for foreign investment.
Now, it is no mystery why Presidents
Clinton, Bush, Obama, and Trump
blocked title 3 from going into effect
every 6 months for the past 23 years. It
is hypocritical. It penalizes companies
for doing what American companies do
all over the world. It is contrary to
international law, which recognizes the
right of expropriation and requires
compensation.
It is an extraterritorial sanction that
guarantees a response from our trading
partners, like Canada, Spain, and the
EU, including complaints at the World
Trade Organization.
And if you care about agriculture, be
warned:
It will open a new front in the trade
war, with all the repercussions that
can bring;
It will allow Cuba to claim victim
status and rally international support;
It will clog our courts with lawsuits;
It will make it impossible to nego-
tiate compensation for U.S. claims in
Cuba and, in the end, hurt the very
Americans who seek compensation for
property they lost;
It will divide us from friends and al-
lies who are now working for a peaceful
solution in Venezuela; and
It will guarantee that new invest-
ment in Cuba will come from the Rus-
sians, Chinese, and others who are hos-
tile to the United States and whose
Stated-owned companies can’t be sued
in U.S. courts.
Once again, the U.S. will be pursuing
a strategy that has failed over and over
and over again for absolutely no good
result.
Madam Speaker, there is a better
way that deserves vocal, bipartisan
support.
We should continue to press Cuba on
human rights. With our Latin Amer-
ican and European allies, we should
challenge Cuba to play a constructive
role in resolving the crisis in Ven-
ezuela, as it did in the Colombian peace
process.
There are positive changes in Cuba to
support: There is growing Internet ac-
cess, and there is more political space
for Cuban citizens, a growing private
sector that now accounts for a third of
Cuba’s labor force. And despite policies
that limit contact, there are rich cul-
tural, educational, and intellectual ex-
changes between Americans and Cuba.
Madam Speaker, we should follow
President Trump’s original instinct
and allow Americans to do business
with Cuba.
We should pass Congressman
CRAWFORD’s bill to increase the com-
petitiveness of our agricultural exports
to Cuba. There is no reason for us to
have only a one-eighth market share of
Cuba’s $2 billion in annual food im-
ports.
We should finally end U.S. travel re-
strictions and allow all Americans to
travel freely, as they choose, to Cuba.
That would serve our values and our
national interests, and it is a worthy
cause in which Democrats and Repub-
licans can join.
f
FOR THE PEOPLE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Ohio (Mrs. BEATTY) for 5 minutes.
Mrs. BEATTY. Madam Speaker, I am
here today for the people. We want an
agreement to continue to keep the gov-
ernment open and working for the peo-
ple.
We are just 8 days from once again
having the possibility of having 800,000
workers, Federal employees—air traffic
controllers, Border Patrol agents, Se-
cret Service personnel, and many,
many more—being furloughed or forced
to work without pay. That is not for
the people.
We saw how the 35-day-long govern-
ment shutdown affected our constitu-
ents, our communities. We heard all
the stories about the shutdown. We
heard stories of cancer patients being
forced to choose between treatment or
paying their rent. We heard the stories
of families, for the first time ever,
being forced to turn to food banks and
soup kitchens to eat. And the list goes
on and on.
Madam Speaker, what we did here
was, during the State of the Union Ad-
dress, President Trump spoke about
how we must ‘‘reject the politics of re-
venge, resistance, and retaliation.’’ He
needs to heed those words and live up
to his promise: ‘‘ . . . bridge old divi-
sions, heal old wounds, build new coali-
tions, forge new solutions, and unlock
the extraordinary promise of America’s
future.’’
He can take an important step in
that direction by letting the con-
ference continue working to keep the
government open for the people.
Democrats and Republican leader-
ships indicate a long-term funding
agreement is just within reach. It is so
imperative that the conferees be al-
lowed to put pen to paper before rush-
ing to judgment or to fire off another
tweet labeling their efforts as a waste
of time, as the President has done time
and time again. That is why the Presi-
dent would be well served to put down
his phone, to stop tweeting, and to
leave the negotiations to Congress.
Members on both sides of the aisle
agree that another government shut-
down would be disastrous for the econ-
omy, for the people, and unnecessarily
harm tens of millions of Americans in
the process.
The President, on Tuesday, said he
was ready and willing to turn a new
leaf. Madam Speaker, let’s turn that
new leaf. Let’s keep the government
open.
Madam Speaker, House Democrats
are committed more than ever to keep-
ing the government open and funding
and finding commonsense solutions to
the issues affecting my constituents
and all Americans.
Madam Speaker, it is simple: Demo-
crats are for the people.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 15
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.003 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1397
February 7, 2019
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at noon.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Eternal God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
On this day of the National Prayer
Breakfast, we gather as a Nation
founded by people of faith. In their wis-
dom and, we hope, with Your inspira-
tion, our Founders recognized that the
power of government ought not be uti-
lized for the advancement of religion,
nor validated by religion, but, rather,
to guarantee the freedom of citizens to
worship as they feel called by God’s
spirit to do.
From its inception, a predominantly
Protestant, colonial population has be-
come a national population of Protes-
tants, Catholics, Jews, Muslims, Mor-
mons, and countless other congregants,
Americans all, who have flourished on
this continent, not without trials and
tribulations.
We pray together that Your blessing
continues upon us all and, most espe-
cially, on the Members of this assem-
bly, trusting that, in the depths of our
hearts, we are seeking to hear Your
call in the following of our consciences.
Bless us this day and every day. May
all that is done here be for Your great-
er honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from South Carolina (Mr.
WILSON) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina led
the Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to 15 requests
for 1-minute speeches on each side of
the aisle.
f
CONGRESS ON YOUR CORNER
CONCERNS
(Mrs. KIRKPATRICK asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK. Mr. Speaker,
this past weekend, I held a Congress on
Your Corner in Tucson, Arizona. I met
face-to-face with my constituents at a
supermarket. They shared their grave
concerns over the President’s words
and actions.
One woman had never attended an
event like this, but she stopped by to
tell me she was terrified of losing her
health insurance. Another woman was
concerned about how inaction on cli-
mate change would impact her chil-
dren.
No one President can solve every
issue, but we need a President that uni-
fies and fights for America’s future,
not divides us by party, economic sta-
tus, or the country we were born in.
President Trump’s address on Tues-
day was more of the same. He doubled
down on his divisive and destructive
agenda with blatant lies. Time and
again, he has failed the middle class
and misinformed the public from the
power pulpit. The President didn’t even
utter a word about climate change, and
he mischaracterized activity at the
border.
But I am listening, and I am here to
work. I am focused on investing in
hardworking families and fighting for
people, not corporations. We will have
votes on the floor this week that prove
our investment in and care for these
issues.
f
WITHDRAWING FROM INF TREATY
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, President Donald Trump
made the courageous decision to with-
draw from the Intermediate-Range Nu-
clear Forces Treaty last week. This
was long overdue. Sadly, there have
been obvious Russian violations since
2011.
The 1987 INF Treaty was achieved by
President Ronald Reagan to prohibit
development of ground-launched cruise
missiles. The INF Treaty was seen as
the gold standard of arms control
agreements for years, but Russia has
been in violation of the agreement,
while we have continued to limit our
research and development.
Allowing Russia to violate the INF
Treaty endangers American families.
Now, Russia will find more incentive to
return to the negotiating table, en-
couraged by Secretary of State Mike
Pompeo.
We must continue to seek peace
through strength. It was this strategy
implemented by President Reagan that
prompted Moscow to sign the INF
Treaty in the first place.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
PAY WORKERS WHAT THEY HAVE
EARNED
(Mr. HORSFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to speak about legislation that I
introduced to protect Nevadans from
the pain of another government shut-
down.
Federal employees and contractors
shouldn’t be on the hook for the fees,
interest, and fines that pile up when
the government shuts down. That is
why yesterday I introduced legislation
to ensure these workers don’t just re-
ceive backpay, but they also get paid
back for the late fees and overdue rent
notices they receive, through no fault
of their own, during any government
shutdown.
This bill also requires the Federal
Government to reimburse States and
Tribes for extra funds that they were
forced to spend during shutdowns, en-
suring Nevada taxpayers aren’t picking
up the tab when the Federal Govern-
ment refuses to do so.
The President made clear on Tuesday
night that he is willing to create an-
other self-imposed crisis so that he can
get money for a border wall. This bill
will ensure that our Federal workers
and State and Tribal governments
aren’t footing the bill for that crisis.
f
SHOW YOUR WORK
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE
(Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio. Mr. Speaker,
the Congressional Budget Office is sup-
posed to help Congress evaluate the fis-
cal costs and benefits of legislation.
Given the weight these scores have on
the ability of Members of Congress to
make policy decisions, it should be a
top priority that the CBO standards are
of the highest possible quality.
CBO should improve and could im-
prove the accuracy of its projections by
adopting a transparent process that
would allow independent experts to
provide technical contributions and
verify their conclusions, as is the
standard for all academic journals.
That is why I have introduced the
CBO Show Your Work Act, which
would require the CBO to publish on-
line all nonproprietary data, models,
and processes utilized in the analysis
and scoring of legislation.
CBO is the internal accountant for
every Member of Congress. Therefore,
Members of Congress, and the public
they serve, should have access to the
data, models, and processes that create
the numbers we rely on.
f
RECOGNIZING PAULA MASSEY
(Mr. COX of California asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. COX of California. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in honor of Black History
Month. This month, as we pay tribute
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.005 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1398 February 7, 2019
to the pioneers, the trailblazers, and
the leaders who have helped bend and
force the moral arc of our Nation clos-
er to that more perfect Union, I rise to
recognize my constituent, Paula
Massey of Hanford, California.
Paula is the founder of Women with
Visions Unlimited, a nonprofit organi-
zation that works with youth in lit-
eracy and summer school programs to
improve the academic attainment of
children in the Central Valley.
Through her organization, Paula
raises scholarships for high school sen-
iors; organizes numerous events to em-
power African-American women; and
focuses on bringing awareness to valley
fever, an illness deep in and dear to her
heart.
Paula lost her son to valley fever in
2017 and quickly realized there was a
lack of knowledge about the disease,
not only from the community, but
from the physicians treating their pa-
tients.
Thanks to the advocacy of Paula and
many others, in 2018, California Gov-
ernor Brown signed a bill requiring the
California Department of Public
Health to create outreach and aware-
ness to educate healthcare providers
and physicians in the public about the
symptoms and treatment of valley
fever.
As Paula put it: ‘‘Awareness is the
key. In the Central Valley, we are an
agriculture community with many
open fields where the dust and dirt
blow in the air. Unless there is aware-
ness, many more people will contract
this disease and not know until it is
too late.’’
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to represent
Paula in the 21st Congressional Dis-
trict.
f
NATIONAL PRAYER BREAKFAST
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, one of the finest Amer-
ican traditions took place this morn-
ing, the National Prayer Breakfast.
Penny and I were honored and in-
spired to join Members of Congress and
leaders from across the globe gathered
here in Washington, D.C., for what has
become an international forum.
Since 1953, the National Prayer
Breakfast has united people, nations,
religions, and even politicians who
come together to celebrate faith, fel-
lowship, and prayer. It is a time where
we reflect on faith and focus on the
year ahead. It is a time where we put
aside differences and unite to pray for
our leaders, our friends, and our fami-
lies.
Every President since President Ei-
senhower has attended the National
Prayer Breakfast, and President
Trump delivered excellent remarks
this morning, urging the Nation to
build a culture that cherishes the dig-
nity and sanctity of life.
President Trump said: ‘‘Let us al-
ways give thanks for the miracle of
life, creation, and the grace of God.’’
Mr. Speaker, I agree. It is my hope
the unity and fellowship we felt this
morning stays with us always in our
work and in our lives.
f
HONORING DETECTIVE BILL BREW-
ER AND LIEUTENANT NICK
DEROSE
(Mr. WENSTRUP asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Speaker, I rise
to honor some of our local heroes. This
past weekend in Clermont County,
Ohio, two police officers came under
fire when responding to a call that was
believed to be an attempted suicide. In-
stead, it turned out to be an ambush.
The gunman lured Detective Bill
Brewer, who is remembered in this
photo, along with Lieutenant Nick
DeRose, into his home, where he pro-
ceeded to fire at both deputies through
a wall.
Lieutenant Nick DeRose was injured,
and Detective Bill Brewer gave his life,
in the line of duty. Detective Brewer
died trying to help a member of his
community, as he always strived to do.
I pray that God will bring comfort to
his family; his wife, Jamie; his young
son, Braxton; my friend Sheriff Leahy;
the Clermont County Sheriff’s Depart-
ment; and all those in our community
grieving this loss.
I pray for a speedy recovery for Lieu-
tenant DeRose.
While God has called Bill Brewer
away from us, the positive effects of
his works in this lifetime shall never
perish.
f
ALZHEIMER’S AWARENESS
(Mr. LAHOOD asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAHOOD. Mr. Speaker, as the co-
chair of the Alzheimer’s Working
Group on the Ways and Means Com-
mittee, I rise today to raise awareness
about this disease that has a profound
impact on so many families across Illi-
nois and our country.
Alzheimer’s is the most common
form of dementia, causing issues with
memory and behavior. More than 3 mil-
lion individuals are diagnosed with Alz-
heimer’s per year.
Alzheimer’s transcends race, eth-
nicity, and socioeconomic standing,
touching families of all backgrounds.
For 2019, more than $400 million was al-
located for research, but it is more
than just funding that is needed to find
a cure.
As a Member of Congress, I have been
proud to support legislation aimed at
finding a cure for this disease, such as
the RAISE Family Caregivers Act and
the BOLD Infrastructure for Alz-
heimer’s Act, both of which were
signed into law.
While we have taken important
strides to find a cure for this disease,
we still have much work to do. I look
forward to working with Members on
both sides of the aisle to find a cure for
this devastating disease.
f
b 1215
REMEMBERING EDWARD EMBREY,
NELSON COUNTY RESCUE SQUAD
CAPTAIN
(Mr. RIGGLEMAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. RIGGLEMAN. Mr. Speaker,
today I rise to speak about a great
man, a man who was a proud son of my
home, Nelson County, Virginia, Edward
Embrey, former Faber Volunteer fire
chief and Nelson County Rescue Squad
captain, after a courageous battle with
cancer. His courage reflects how he
lived his life.
Raised in my home county of Nelson,
Eddie dedicated his life to helping
friends and neighbors who found them-
selves in harm’s way. He fought count-
less wildfires across the Common-
wealth and Nation, leading to his com-
mendation as Forest Warden of the
Year in Virginia. He was asked to serve
as captain of the Nelson County Rescue
Squad and chief of the Faber Volunteer
Fire Department.
His dedication to public safety and to
helping all the men and women of Nel-
son County should be recognized and
commended. He put his life at risk
time after time to save people he didn’t
even know across the entirety of the
Commonwealth. Eddie lived a life of
selflessness, and for that, we are all
thankful.
From me and all those who have
served: Rest easy, Chief.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN HARMS
LEGAL IMMIGRATION
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to call on the leadership of both
parties to end the possibility of an-
other government shutdown before
next Friday.
Many in this Chamber oppose Presi-
dent Trump’s plans to secure our bor-
der because they believe that doing so
would send a negative message, a mes-
sage that immigrants are not welcome
in this Nation. This is simply not true.
Just yesterday, I met with farmers
from my district who told me how very
much they rely on skilled foreign
labor. One farmer in particular adver-
tised 800 jobs and, in fact, did not re-
ceive a single American applicant.
These farmers also expressed concern
that, if the government shutdown con-
tinued, they will be unable to hire
workers abroad because the State De-
partment would not conduct the nec-
essary hearings for H–2A visas. This is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.007 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1399
February 7, 2019
not acceptable, and we can and must do
better.
The strong economy led by President
Trump has created more jobs than
there are Americans to fill them, and
we want to encourage legal immigra-
tion not only to fill a need, but also be-
cause immigrants create a stronger
America. After all, without legal immi-
gration, my great-grandfather, Fran-
cisco Spano, would not have immi-
grated here from Italy, and I would not
be standing before this House today.
Mr. Speaker, it is time for this House
to come together to avert another
shutdown, continue growing our econ-
omy, and push for an immigration sys-
tem that is fair, just, and inclusive for
all.
f
BLACK HISTORY MONTH
(Mr. WATKINS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. WATKINS. Mr. Speaker, today I
rise to honor Black History Month.
Kansas is no stranger to the fight for
equality. At times in our Nation’s his-
tory, Kansas has led the charge.
Bloody Kansas was a series of violent
civil confrontations, in the 1850s, sur-
rounding slavery. Brown v. Topeka
Board of Education helped end racial
segregation.
In 1968, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,
chose Kansas to deliver his speech, ti-
tled, ‘‘The Future of Integration.’’ In
that speech, he said that, if democracy
is to live, segregation must die.
Let us strive to live up to his mem-
ory; let us strive to come together; and
let us choose greatness.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, February 7, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
February 7, 2019, at 11:11 a.m.:
Appointments:
Joint Committee on Taxation.
Members of the Senate Finance Committee
as Congressional Advisers.
John C. Stennis Center for Public Service
Training and Development.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
KAREN L. HAAS.
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 840, VETERANS’ ACCESS
TO CHILD CARE ACT; PROVIDING
FOR ADOPTION OF H. RES. 86,
PROVIDING AMOUNTS FOR THE
EXPENSES OF THE SELECT COM-
MITTEE ON THE CLIMATE CRISIS
AND THE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON THE MODERNIZATION OF
CONGRESS; AND PROVIDING FOR
CONSIDERATION OF MOTIONS TO
SUSPEND THE RULES
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 105 and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 105
Resolved, That at any time after adoption
of this resolution the Speaker may, pursuant
to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the
House resolved into the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 840) to amend
title 38, United States Code, to direct the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to provide
child care assistance to veterans receiving
certain medical services provided by the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs. The first read-
ing of the bill shall be dispensed with. All
points of order against consideration of the
bill are waived. General debate shall be con-
fined to the bill and shall not exceed one
hour equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. After gen-
eral debate the bill shall be considered for
amendment under the five-minute rule. It
shall be in order to consider as an original
bill for the purpose of amendment under the
five-minute rule an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of
Rules Committee Print 116-3. That amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute shall be
considered as read. All points of order
against that amendment in the nature of a
substitute are waived. No amendment to
that amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute shall be in order except those printed
in the report of the Committee on Rules ac-
companying this resolution. Each such
amendment may be offered only in the order
printed in the report, may be offered only by
a Member designated in the report, shall be
considered as read, shall be debatable for the
time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an op-
ponent, shall not be subject to amendment,
and shall not be subject to a demand for divi-
sion of the question in the House or in the
Committee of the Whole. All points of order
against such amendments are waived. At the
conclusion of consideration of the bill for
amendment the Committee shall rise and re-
port the bill to the House with such amend-
ments as may have been adopted. Any Mem-
ber may demand a separate vote in the
House on any amendment adopted in the
Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the
amendment in the nature of a substitute
made in order as original text. The previous
question shall be considered as ordered on
the bill and amendments thereto to final
passage without intervening motion except
one motion to recommit with or without in-
structions.
SEC. 2. House Resolution 86 is hereby
adopted.
SEC. 3. It shall be in order at any time
through the legislative day of February 15,
2019, for the Speaker to entertain motions
that the House suspend the rules as though
under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or
her designee shall consult with the Minority
Leader or his designee on the designation of
any matter for consideration pursuant to
this section.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New York is recognized
for 1 hour.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, for the
purpose of debate only, I yield the cus-
tomary 30 minutes to the gentleman
from Georgia (Mr. WOODALL), pending
which I yield myself such time as I
may consume. During consideration of
this resolution, all time yielded is for
the purpose of debate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
be given 5 legislative days to revise and
extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, on
Wednesday, the Rules Committee met
and reported a rule, House Resolution
105, providing for consideration of H.R.
840, the Veterans’ Access to Child Care
Act, under a structured rule.
The rule provides for 1 hour of debate
equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
The rule makes in order 21 amend-
ments, each debatable for 10 minutes.
The rule also provides for adoption of
H. Res. 86, a resolution providing in-
terim funding for our two new select
committees.
Lastly, the rule provides suspension
authority through next Friday, Feb-
ruary 15.
Mr. Speaker, the Veterans’ Access to
Child Care Act would make permanent
the VA’s childcare pilot program, al-
lowing more veterans to access cost-
free childcare when they receive men-
tal or other intensive healthcare treat-
ment through the VA.
A nearly identical piece of legislation
passed in the House last year under a
Republican majority with bipartisan
cosponsors and without objection. It is
my hope that this Congress will sup-
port these efforts to make it easier for
our brave servicemembers to get the
care they need while supporting their
families.
Millions of working families across
the Nation are struggling to afford the
rising cost of childcare. Families in my
own State of New York often pay up-
wards of $15,000 each year to place one
child in a childcare center. Some par-
ents may find themselves owing their
entire salary each month to provision
of daycare. This cost can be so debili-
tating that parents are being driven
out of the workforce—many of them
women.
For veterans, these struggles can be
even more acute. Many veterans are
primary caregivers to their children or
even their grandchildren. These brave
men and women rely on the VA for
their healthcare, but many of them are
forced to miss appointments or forgo
treatment altogether because they
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.009 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1400 February 7, 2019
have no childcare options. For many,
that can be devastating. We have seen
the harm that can be done when mili-
tary veterans do not receive high-qual-
ity mental health services.
This Nation is facing a crisis. Each
day, 20 American veterans take their
own life. Studies have shown that men-
tal health disparities are a leading
cause of high suicide rates among vet-
erans who struggle with depression or
post-traumatic stress.
The Department of Veterans Affairs
has shown that the suicide rate has in-
creased faster among those veterans
who have not recently received treat-
ment through the VA system. Address-
ing inadequate access to lifesaving
mental health and intense health serv-
ices is critical as we seek to reform our
veterans’ healthcare system, and we
know that making care more acces-
sible will save lives.
Currently, the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs operates a pilot program
to provide cost-free childcare to help
primary caregivers seeking mental
health treatment at selected VA facili-
ties across the country. This program
has been extended by Congress several
times and has provided care for more
than 10,000 children already.
Congress now has an opportunity to
extend not only this pilot, but to ex-
pand this essential service to every VA
facility in the Nation. This will allow
thousands more veterans to receive
cost-free childcare, ensuring that they
never have to choose caring for their
family over caring for their own men-
tal health well-being.
This legislation is especially impor-
tant for female veterans across the Na-
tion, many of whom are single parents
or primary caregivers. An increasing
number of female veterans have been
in combat. One in five female veterans
seen by the VA report military sexual
trauma.
It is clear that female veterans face
unique health challenges and unique
barriers to accessing the care they
need. This legislation will work to dis-
mantle those barriers so the VA can
build on the progress we have made in
treating female veterans.
For many veterans, it is not only es-
sential that they receive mental and
intensive healthcare, but that they re-
ceive care quickly. When facing a seri-
ous mental health crisis, veterans
shouldn’t have to worry about their
babysitter dropping out or how they
will pay for a day of daycare or how
they will find someone to take care of
their child while they go to the hos-
pital and receive services. We must en-
sure that the men and women who have
laid their lives on the line for our Na-
tion have timely access to the life-
saving services they need and that we
have promised to provide.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote for this rule and the underlying
legislation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume,
and I want to thank my friend from
New York for yielding me the cus-
tomary 30 minutes.
Mr. Speaker, I am not going to have
the opportunity very often, so I want
to make sure I do it while the gen-
tleman and I are together today to tell
him I agree with absolutely everything
Mr. MORELLE had to say. It doesn’t
happen very often on the Rules Com-
mittee.
If you are ever having a good day and
you need to bring some discord into
your life, I want you to head upstairs
to the third floor, where there is a 9-to-
4 majority-minority distribution, and
you can find discord up there every day
of the week. It doesn’t matter whether
it is Republicans leading the institu-
tion or Democrats leading the institu-
tion.
Last night, we had a chance to come
together and talk about something
that unites us all; but I oppose the rule
today, Mr. Speaker, because this is a
bill that passed the Congress last year,
and when we passed it last year, we
passed it unanimously through the
Veterans’ Affairs Committee. All the
Republicans and all the Democrats
voted ‘‘yes.’’ Then we brought it to the
House floor, and we passed it unani-
mously here on a voice vote.
But the difference between the bill
we have before us today and the bill we
had before us last year is that, when we
made new promises to our veterans for
much-needed benefits last year, we
went and we found ways to pay for
those promises—not controversial
ways, not divisive ways, but ways that
we agreed to unanimously at the com-
mittee and the full House level. When
the bill reappeared this year, those
pay-fors were miraculously absent.
I am concerned about that for two
reasons, Mr. Speaker, and I think this
body should reject this rule and give us
a chance to improve this bill. We tried
to improve it with an amendment last
night, and the amendment was non-
germane.
For folks who are new to the institu-
tion, understand that, if the committee
that sends the bill to the House floor
decides they are not going to pay for it,
then any effort to try to pay for it is
nongermane. So, once a committee
sends a bill that is flawed to the Rules
Committee, unless there is a waiver of
the House rules to allow a pay-for
amendment, pay-for amendments are
not in order.
b 1230
So what happens is we are making a
new commitment of about $120 million
to our veterans, a wonderful commit-
ment.
Again, I agree with absolutely every-
thing the gentleman from New York
had to say. His heart for veterans is
pure, and his words were true.
But that $120 million commitment we
are making, Mr. Speaker, gets folded
into the Veterans’ Affairs budget that
we don’t increase by one penny, which
means we now have to go cut $120 mil-
lion worth of other veterans’ benefits
in order to pay for this veterans’ ben-
efit.
That is not what anybody on this
floor wants to do. In the Budget Com-
mittee today, we were talking about
the caps, talking about how to deal
with caps. Nobody wants to dip into
the already promised benefits that we
have made to American veterans.
But the mystery to me is that, in
this Chamber that America perceives
as being so divided, in this town that
America perceives as being so broken,
we came together last year, unani-
mously, to do it the right way; and
with new House leadership this year,
Mr. Speaker, we have instead chosen to
do it the easy way.
I think our veterans deserve better,
but, more importantly, I know the
Members of this institution can do bet-
ter. We have, and we can again.
I hope my friends will reject this rule
and give us a chance to go back, pay
for this, make sure there are not unin-
tended consequences of cutting other
veterans’ benefits that every man and
woman in this Chamber supports.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
First of all, I appreciate the com-
ments by my distinguished and wholly
entertaining colleague, the gentleman
from Georgia (Mr. WOODALL). I do want
to just make a couple of points related
to his comments.
First of all, as the gentleman indi-
cated, the amendment that he talked
about was not germane, not before the
House, and that was ruled such yester-
day. But, as it relates to the paygo
rule, we are entirely in compliance
with that. In fact, the Congressional
Budget Office advised us that there is
no direct spending in the bill.
As my mother is often wont to say:
You can’t be holier than the church.
CBO has ruled on it and indicated that
the bill does not add a single penny to
our deficit or to the national debt, pe-
riod.
I do, Mr. Speaker, however, find it
somewhat ironic. I was thinking about
this just yesterday after our conversa-
tion in the Rules Committee, and I do
note that the appropriation over the
next 5 years, $120 million—that is mil-
lion with an M, not billion with a B,
and certainly not trillion with a T. And
I do find it ironic to some agree that
the gentleman and his colleagues last
year would enact a tax cut which pro-
vided that 83 percent of its benefits
went to the wealthiest Americans.
And, if we were here each day, Mr.
WOODALL and I, for 365 days a year, for
the next 30 years—10,000 days, 10,000
times—that tax bill would have spent
more money than this would during
that time, if we did this for 10,000 days.
Think about it.
The work that we do here: authorized
spending on a program for veterans,
not our wealthiest Americans; those
who are struggling; those who have,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.011 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1401
February 7, 2019
during their time, provided great serv-
ice and sacrifice to our country; those
who have kept us safe. And I know Mr.
WOODALL and I share an appreciation
for all the work our veterans do.
But this is a policy bill, Mr. Speaker.
It is not an appropriations bill, and it
has no direct spending. What it does: It
helps save the lives of veterans, and it
helps put them on a safer, more sound
bearing for the future.
The cost for implementing it is, as I
said, $120 million over the next 5 years.
And it seems to me, it seems to my col-
leagues, that this is appropriate given
the priorities we have for our Nation
and for our veterans.
So the next step, as the gentleman
knows, is to provide funding through
the appropriation process, and I hope
that this Congress does invest in our
veterans, particularly those who have
challenging health issues, whether
they be physical, mental, or behav-
ioral, who also happen to be the par-
ents or caretakers of our young chil-
dren.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
It is not like me to correct the Chair
because he serves the entire House,
but, I will tell you, it is entirely pos-
sible that Mr. MORELLE and I could
yield each other time back and forth
today. That is the nature of this insti-
tution’s support for veterans.
And, I have to tell you, that is what
hurts me the most about the way this
bill has come to the floor. My friend is
exactly right, Mr. Speaker, when he
says that the CBO says this: There is
no direct spending in this bill at all.
I just want you to think through that
with me. We are promising veterans
new benefits that cost money, and the
scorekeeping institution of the United
States House of Representatives says
this bill will cost nothing.
Now, why is that true? It is true be-
cause there are other laws on the
books, the budget caps that are on the
books that say: If you add one penny of
veterans funding in this category, you
have got to cut a penny from this cat-
egory.
When we did this bill last year, we all
recognized that. I am not telling any-
body anything they don’t already
know, and it pains me to see the de-
fense of this bill as ‘‘we didn’t have
to,’’ ‘‘they didn’t make us,’’ ‘‘it is not
required.’’ All of those arguments were
true last year, too. They didn’t make
us. We don’t have to. It is not required.
It is just the right thing to do. And
we came together, and we did it.
You have a different vantage point of
this Chamber, Mr. Speaker, than I do.
From your chair, it may look like that
bipartisanship breaks out across this
Chamber in mass quantities every day
of the week, but, from my position be-
hind this podium, we don’t find that
many things that both spend money
and save money, those things that
make new promises while revising old
promises that weren’t working as well,
those things that make promises today
but pay for them today instead of pass-
ing the bill on to our children and
grandchildren.
And we did that together last year.
We did it together. How can folks for-
get? Yes, we have lots of new freshmen
in this Chamber, but we came together
last year, unanimously, to do this bill
right, to tell veterans: We do want to
serve you better; we are going to create
a new benefit; and we are not going to
force cuts to other benefits as a result.
I am not going to give up on biparti-
sanship breaking out in this Chamber
again and again and again, and I am
certainly not going to give up on the
bipartisan commitment that we have
to serving our veterans. There are only
so many days in a year. There are only
so many weeks in a Congress. We can-
not waste them doing a halfway job
when we could have done the job right.
In this case, it is not as if we don’t
have a roadmap of how to do the job
right. We did it. It is not as if we
thought about doing it; we voted
unanimously together to do it.
Yet, in this new day, we have chosen
a different path, an inferior path. I just
challenge my colleagues, as Paul Ryan
used to say: Raise your gaze. This is a
good idea. This is a good programmatic
policy. But we need to pay for it, not
cut veterans’ benefits in order to
squeeze it in.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I in-
quire of the gentleman whether or not
there are other speakers or whether I
should use this opportunity to close.
Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I would
welcome my friend to close, but, in the
spirit of bipartisanship, I will be happy
to begin that process.
Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
It is a different job in the minority.
The power that Mr. MORELLE has to
open this debate and close this debate,
it lends credence to his words. As I
stipulated at the beginning, everything
he said was true. It is what he didn’t
say that we can do better on.
I will say this one more time be-
cause, again, for new Members of this
Chamber, you may not understand how
the Rules Committee works. If a com-
mittee does not pay for legislation, if a
committee just makes promises and
does not find a way to pay for it, it is
not appropriate, under House rules, to
then try to add a pay-for. It requires a
waiver from the Rules Committee of
House rules in order to include a pay-
for in a bill that is not already paid for.
We offered that amendment last night.
It was rejected on a party-line vote in
the Rules Committee. Mr. Speaker, if
we defeat the previous question today,
we will offer a solution.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent to insert the text of my amend-
ment in the RECORD, along with extra-
neous material, immediately prior to
the vote on the previous question.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, the
amendment that we will offer if the
previous question is defeated would add
the language that, by collecting fees on
housing loans that would pay for this
new childcare benefit so that we don’t
have to go deep into the Veterans’ Af-
fairs budget, cutting other benefits in
order to pay for this, so we don’t have
to violate budget caps and borrow from
our children and from our grand-
children, so that we can make promises
to men and women who deserve and
need this benefit and know that we
have come together and done the heavy
lifting to pay for it today.
I hope my friends will unite, as we
did last year, in approving this funding
language, unite in defeating the pre-
vious question, so that I can bring this
amendment up and we can do this in
the same honorable, bipartisan, col-
laborative way that we unanimously
passed this very same language just a
few short months ago.
I urge my friends: Know that we can
do better.
Mr. Speaker, while I contemplated
yielding back, I am going to reserve
my time just in case there are any
more speakers who have been affected
by my words and want to come and join
this effort that we have today. I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I apolo-
gize. I am still learning this. The lingo
on the floor of the House is much dif-
ferent than the lingo on the floor of the
New York State Assembly, where I had
the privilege of serving, and I do appre-
ciate the gentleman’s help through
this. He has me at a bit of a disadvan-
tage.
I do want to just reiterate before I
yield that, in fact, this is a policy that
we set with this bill and this rule. It
will be up to the appropriators to make
a decision about whether this is a pri-
ority as they go through this process
and determine whether there will be
funding for it in the appropriations
bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON
LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, let
me say that the gentleman from New
York is doing an excellent job. He has
translated the great leadership of the
New York legislature and brought it
here to the House. We thank the gen-
tleman for his service.
I have been affected by the gen-
tleman from Georgia’s comments. We
have been on this floor together, and I
know that we have a heart of service.
As well—coming from Georgia, coming
from Texas—we know veterans and we
certainly know Active-Duty persons as
well.
So I rise to support the policy
underpinnings of this legislation that
has been so well articulated by the gen-
tleman from New York.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.013 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1402 February 7, 2019
And it is important to note, just as
background: When this government
was wrongly shut down, we lost $11 bil-
lion, $3 billion that we will never see
again and $8 billion that we may see
again. But, in the course of that, all of
us interacted with our veterans, many
of them devastated because some of
them were in positions that caused
them to be furloughed. That means
they were not getting a paycheck.
Some of them, of course, are disabled
veterans or veterans who are engaged
in the veterans’ health system.
And we know that these veterans
have pride. So this bill is an author-
izing bill that affirms that pride, that
allows veterans—many of them young
veterans, having been in the Afghani-
stan war, having been in the Iraq war,
having been in Syria—many of them
young with young children, that they
can go to get their medical care—that
is well needed—by now having
childcare during their medical care vis-
its.
And I am glad the gentleman from
New York made it clear over and over
again that this is an authorizing bill.
There is no need for paygo. There is no
need for the offset. That will be han-
dled. This is a policy point.
This is Democrats, hopefully joined
by Republicans, to affirm our commit-
ment to the service of veterans. But, as
I do that, maybe the gentleman from
Georgia would join me in reconsidering
the new tax cuts by the GOP, which
would cost $3.8 trillion to the deficit
this second round and create $3.2 tril-
lion in the Federal deficit over a dec-
ade.
b 1245
Maybe my good friend will join me
and indicate that our veterans are
more important, that services to our
families are more important, and,
therefore, let’s reconsider this deficit-
busting GOP tax bill.
But as relates to this policy, I am
grateful to the leadership of the Vet-
erans’ Affairs Committee. I thank the
gentleman from New York in the Rules
Committee for bringing forward this
thoughtful, smart veterans bill. Re-
member, you have been hearing us talk
about smart border security, and we
are working on that right now to keep
the government open, but this is a
smart bill.
I have a veterans hospital in my
area, formerly in my district, and I
know how important Medicare is.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to support the
rule, and I rise to support the under-
lying legislation, which is authorizing
legislation to help veterans have
childcare when they go to get their
medical care.
Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, it is troubling to me
that we have those things that divide
us, that permeate these conversations
that could be uniting. Again, I don’t
think we have that many opportunities
where we are able to come together as
an entire institution unanimously to
support legislation, so I deeply regret
we have missed that opportunity.
I want to encourage my friends on
the other side of the aisle not to fall
under the same trap that I think Re-
publicans fell into just 8 short years
ago. Every single conversation we have
now in the Rules Committee, the tax
cuts come into it.
The fact that so many of my Demo-
cratic friends didn’t want tax cuts for
the American people isn’t a mystery to
me. I got not one Democratic vote on
the entire bill. I get it. One team
thought it was a good idea, one team
didn’t, but we cannot use that dis-
agreement as an excuse not to do the
very best that we can on each and
every bill going forward.
I will give you that example from the
Republicans experience. I was categori-
cally opposed to the Federal takeover
of healthcare that was the Affordable
Care Act. I was categorically opposed
to the way that small businesses lost
options. And my friends that were
promised they could keep their doctor
and they could keep their plan, those
promises were broken.
But I still came together with my
Democratic friends on the floor to find
additional dollars for veterans
healthcare and plus-up those accounts,
to find additional ways to serve vet-
erans who had not been served through
healthcare and plus-up those accounts.
The fact that we disagree on really big
important issues does not mean we
cannot come together and do the very
best that we can.
And with that in mind, I want to give
credit where credit is due. I have
talked a lot about how we unanimously
passed this bill last Congress. It is
true. We unanimously passed it out of
committee, and we unanimously passed
it on the floor of the House. But what
that means is, it came to the floor of
the House on the suspension calendar,
which meant no amendments were
made in order.
The way that my friends on the other
side of the aisle have brought the bill
up, amendments are made in order, and
the Rules Committee made 21 different
amendments in order. We passed the
bill unanimously under our leadership,
but there was not an opportunity to
improve it.
My friends on the other side have
chosen a different path that does allow
an opportunity to improve it, but
doesn’t allow the opportunities that I
am seeking to pay for it.
I don’t have to demean my friends or
their intentions because their inten-
tions are pure, and they are thought-
ful, honorable Members of this institu-
tion. The fact that we disagree about
policy does not mean we have to dis-
agree about the motives of one an-
other. And when we have these oppor-
tunities to do not just good but better;
not just good, but good in a way that
we don’t pass the bill on to our chil-
dren and our grandchildren, we take
care of that bill today.
I will close with this, Mr. Speaker.
Again, I can’t disagree with any of the
words my friend from New York tells
because the half of the story that he
tells is absolutely true. This is an au-
thorizing bill where we make a new
promise to veterans.
If this bill passes the floor of the
House today, it then goes to the Appro-
priations Committee to fulfill this
promise that we all celebrate today,
and the Appropriations Committee will
have not one new penny to pay for this
new promise.
We have all been in this business long
enough to know what happens to prom-
ises that folks don’t put any money be-
hind and what happens to promises
that don’t get paid for. The law pre-
vents the Appropriations Committee
from funding this new promise, unless
they cut dollars from existing veterans
promises today.
This bill is doing all the right things
for all the right reasons. Let’s not
make another veteran have to pay in a
cut for what we are promising to one of
his brothers or sisters in a new benefit.
Defeat the previous question; allow
us to pay for this bill; and let’s put our
money where our hearts and our
mouths are.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
from Georgia for his indulgence and his
patience as I hopefully will get the
training wheels off at one of these
points, but I appreciate his comments.
I do want to note that this bill, the
amendment which the gentleman
speaks of, will not have been germane
in the previous Congress either, and it
was not ruled germane during the
Rules Committee deliberations.
But, Mr. Speaker, I do want to thank
all my colleagues for the words of sup-
port for H.R. 840, the Veterans’ Access
to Child Care Act. The Veterans’ Ac-
cess bill, I want to especially thank the
sponsor, Congresswoman JULIA
BROWNLEY and Chairman MARK TAKANO
of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, as
well as the ranking member, Mr. ROE,
for their work in supporting our Na-
tion’s veterans.
I am proud that this rule provides for
the consideration of so many diverse
ideas, including minority and bipar-
tisan amendments, something that
would not be allowed in the previous
Congress. I am proud we have taken
this bipartisan approach, and I appre-
ciate all the work that Chairman
MCGOVERN has done to make sure that
that is part of the work that we do.
I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on the rule and a
‘‘yes’’ vote on the previous question.
The material previously referred to
by Mr. WOODALL is as follows:
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 4. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this resolution, the amendment print-
ed in section 5 shall be in order as though
printed as the last amendment in the report
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.015 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1403
February 7, 2019
of the Committee on Rules accompanying
this resolution if offered by Representative
Bilirakis of Florida or a designee. That
amendment shall be debatable for 10 minutes
equally divided and controlled by the pro-
ponent and an opponent.
SEC. 5. The amendment referred to in sec-
tion 4 is as follows:
At the end, add the following:
SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF REQUIREMENT TO COL-
LECT FEES FOR HOUSING LOANS
GUARANTEED BY SECRETARY OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS.
Section 3729(b)(2) of title 38, United States
Code, is amended by striking ‘‘September 30,
2028’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘December 31, 2028’’.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time, and I
move the previous question on the res-
olution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
TIFFANY JOSLYN JUVENILE AC-
COUNTABILITY BLOCK GRANT
PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION
ACT OF 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 494) to amend the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 to reauthorize the Juvenile Ac-
countability Block Grant program, and
for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 494
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Tiffany
Joslyn Juvenile Accountability Block Grant
Program Reauthorization Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION OF JUVENILE AC-
COUNTABILITY BLOCK GRANT PRO-
GRAM.
Part R of title I of the Omnibus Crime Con-
trol and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C.
3796ee et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 1801(b)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘grad-
uated sanctions’’ and inserting ‘‘graduated
sanctions and incentives’’;
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘hiring ju-
venile court judges, probation officers, and
court-appointed defenders and special advo-
cates, and’’;
(C) by striking paragraphs (4) and (7), and
redesignating paragraphs (5) through (17) as
paragraphs (4) through (15), respectively; and
(D) in paragraph (11), as so redesignated,
by striking ‘‘research-based bullying,
cyberbullying, and gang prevention pro-
grams’’ and inserting ‘‘interventions such as
researched-based anti-bullying, anti-
cyberbullying, and gang prevention pro-
grams, as well as mental health services and
trauma-informed practices’’;
(2) in section 1802—
(A) in subsection (d)(3), by inserting after
‘‘individualized sanctions’’ the following: ‘‘,
incentives,’’;
(B) in subsection (e)(1)(B), by striking
‘‘graduated sanctions’’ and inserting ‘‘grad-
uated sanctions and incentives’’; and
(C) in subsection (f)—
(i) in paragraph (2)—
(I) by inserting after ‘‘A sanction may in-
clude’’ the following: ‘‘a range of court-ap-
proved interventions, such as’’; and
(II) by inserting after ‘‘a fine,’’ the fol-
lowing: ‘‘a restorative justice program,’’; and
(ii) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) INCENTIVES.—The term ‘incentives’
means individualized, goal-oriented, and
graduated responses to a juvenile offender’s
compliance with court orders and case dis-
position terms designed to reinforce or mod-
ify the skills and behaviors of the juvenile
offender. An incentive may include a certifi-
cate of achievement, a letter of rec-
ommendation, a family or program activity,
a meeting or special outing with a commu-
nity leader, a reduction in community serv-
ice hours, a reduced curfew or home restric-
tion, a decrease in required court appear-
ances, or a decrease in the term of court-or-
dered supervision.’’;
(3) in section 1810(a), by striking
‘‘$350,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2006
through 2009’’ and inserting ‘‘$30,000,000 for
each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 1811. GRANT ACCOUNTABILITY.
‘‘(a) DEFINITION OF APPLICABLE COMMIT-
TEES.—In this section, the term ‘applicable
committees’ means—
‘‘(1) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
Senate; and
‘‘(2) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives.
‘‘(b) ACCOUNTABILITY.—All grants awarded
by the Attorney General under this part
shall be subject to the following account-
ability provisions:
‘‘(1) AUDIT REQUIREMENT.—
‘‘(A) DEFINITION.—In this paragraph, the
term ‘unresolved audit finding’ means a find-
ing in the final audit report of the Inspector
General of the Department of Justice that
the audited grantee has utilized grant funds
for an unauthorized expenditure or otherwise
unallowable cost that is not closed or re-
solved within 12 months after the date on
which the final audit report is issued.
‘‘(B) AUDIT.—Beginning in the first fiscal
year beginning after the date of enactment
of this section, and in each fiscal year there-
after, the Inspector General of the Depart-
ment of Justice shall conduct audits of re-
cipients of grants awarded by the Attorney
General under this part to prevent waste,
fraud, and abuse of funds by grantees. The
Inspector General shall determine the appro-
priate number of grantees to be audited each
year.
‘‘(C) MANDATORY EXCLUSION.—A recipient
of grant funds under this part that is found
to have an unresolved audit finding shall not
be eligible to receive grant funds under this
part during the first 2 fiscal years beginning
after the end of the 12-month period de-
scribed in subparagraph (A).
‘‘(D) PRIORITY.—In awarding grants under
this part, the Attorney General shall give
priority to eligible applicants that did not
have an unresolved audit finding during the
3 fiscal years before submitting an applica-
tion for a grant under this part.
‘‘(E) REIMBURSEMENT.—If an entity is
awarded grant funds under this part during
the 2-fiscal-year period during which the en-
tity is barred from receiving grants under
subparagraph (C), the Attorney General
shall—
‘‘(i) deposit an amount equal to the
amount of the grant funds that were improp-
erly awarded to the grantee into the General
Fund of the Treasury; and
‘‘(ii) seek to recoup the costs of the repay-
ment to the fund from the grant recipient
that was erroneously awarded grant funds.
‘‘(2) ANNUAL CERTIFICATION.—Beginning in
the first fiscal year beginning after the date
of enactment of this section, the Attorney
General shall submit to the applicable com-
mittees an annual certification—
‘‘(A) indicating whether—
‘‘(i) all audits issued by the Inspector Gen-
eral of the Department of Justice under
paragraph (1) have been completed and re-
viewed by the appropriate Assistant Attor-
ney General or Director;
‘‘(ii) all mandatory exclusions required
under paragraph (1)(C) have been issued; and
‘‘(iii) all reimbursements required under
paragraph (1)(E) have been made; and
‘‘(B) that includes a list of any grant re-
cipients excluded under paragraph (1) from
the previous year.
‘‘(c) PREVENTING DUPLICATIVE GRANTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Before the Attorney
General awards a grant to an applicant
under this part, the Attorney General shall
compare potential grant awards with other
grants awarded under this part by the Attor-
ney General to determine if duplicate grant
awards are awarded for the same purpose.
‘‘(2) REPORT.—If the Attorney General
awards duplicate grants under this part to
the same applicant for the same purpose, the
Attorney General shall submit to the appli-
cable committees a report that includes—
‘‘(A) a list of all duplicate grants awarded
under this part, including the total dollar
amount of any duplicate grants awarded; and
‘‘(B) the reason the Attorney General
awarded the duplicate grants.’’.
SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of the Congress that the use
of best practices is encouraged for all activi-
ties for which grants under part R of title I
of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe
Streets Act of 1968 may be used.
SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
FOR JUVENILE ACCOUNTABILITY
BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM.
Section 1001(a)(16) of title I of the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
(34 U.S.C. 10261(a)(16)) is amended to read as
follows:
‘‘(16) There are authorized to be appro-
priated to carry out projects under part R
$30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2024.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE) and the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. COLLINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and include
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:10 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.004 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1404 February 7, 2019
extraneous material on the bill under
consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, this is a very special
bill to my heart and to my constitu-
ents and to the many, many advocates
dealing with the reformation of the ju-
venile justice system and the impor-
tance of such.
I would like to take note of many of
them, but, in particular, the National
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Pre-
vention Council and Coalition that rep-
resent decades of work all over the Na-
tion, organizations that recognize that
the best place for our young juveniles
that have had some encounter with the
system is not in a detention-like jail.
I hope that as we move forward on
criminal justice reform and juvenile
justice reform that we can reform the
places and the attitudes toward juve-
niles who run awry of the system all
over the Nation.
This bill is named for Tiffany May
Joslyn, a champion for criminal justice
reform, who formerly served as deputy
chief counsel of the Crime, Terrorism,
Homeland Security and Investigations
Subcommittee, and whose life trag-
ically was cut short on March 5, 2016, in
a car accident, which sadly also
claimed the life of her brother Derrick.
She was just 33 years old.
Her family loved her. Her family still
remembers how much she talked about
her work on the House Judiciary Com-
mittee and the Subcommittee on
Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security
and Investigations that I served on at
that time as the ranking member.
So passage of this bill last Congress
in this body was both bitter and sweet,
but I would understand that Tiffany, in
the place where she is, would have been
proud as she championed these causes
fearlessly. This moment is for both her
and for all of the millions of young peo-
ple that will be helped by this bill.
We worked very hard on this bill, and
it is a bipartisan bill. It has, I believe,
those who have an interest in doing the
very best for our Nation and for our
young people.
The Tiffany Joslyn bill will help
stem the epidemic of juveniles within
the criminal justice system by reau-
thorizing the juvenile justice system
and the juvenile accountability block
grant program and providing funding
to State and local governments for the
creation of antibullying and antigang
prevention programs and intervention.
It is clearly important to recognize
that it is only us that can begin to re-
frame the old-fashioned attitudes
about ‘‘lock’em up.’’ We know that
there was a period of time, Mr. Speak-
er, when it was a shift so that schools
and the education system were saying:
Get the bad apples out of your class-
room, not even into the principal’s of-
fice or not even into the auditorium for
detention.
They leaped from the classroom into
the hands of law enforcement officers
who then, as we have seen some of the
untoward actions, had to wrestle them
down or there was emotional encoun-
ters, but they went downtown, as many
of us would say, to the county jail or to
the detention center.
We hope that we will provide other
tools to be able to intervene on behav-
iors by way of providing resources to
some of our well-documented groups
and organizations and new ones that
have creative ways of intervening in a
juvenile’s life. How many of us have
heard the story of how a pilot, a law-
yer, a doctor started out their life, and
then how they wound up as being con-
tributing citizens because someone in-
tervened. This bill is about interven-
tion.
In addition to reauthorizing the juve-
nile justice programs, the Tiffany
Joslyn Juvenile Accountability Block
Grant, and the Bullying Prevention
and Intervention Act clarifies how to
address the occurrences of bullying
through developmentally appropriate
intervention and prevention tech-
niques, which center on evidence-based
models and best practices.
Best practices bring people together,
because it doesn’t matter whether you
are Republican or Democrat, it brings
people together, and that is best prac-
tices that rely on schools and commu-
nities rather than the involvement
from law enforcement and the justice
system.
What we want is to put a big red stop
sign in front of the life of every juve-
nile that might be awry with the sys-
tem, and procedures and rules to be
able to find an alternative way.
H.R. 494 is designed to help both the
victims and perpetrators of bullying.
Research studies have shown that ap-
proximately 25 percent of school bul-
lies will be convicted of a criminal of-
fense in their adult years. Let’s put a
stop sign there. Let’s not have that
happen.
b 1300
We also recognize that cyberbullying
has become an epidemic, particularly
for young people. Their life is centered
around technology. Many times they
are in their home, bedroom, et cetera,
only with technology, and they use
that in a way—because their brains are
not matured until 25 and over, they use
it in a way that they don’t fully com-
prehend how vicious, how devastating
this could be to the receiver of that in-
formation, how exposing that could be
to the receiver of that information.
Let’s get in their lives. Let’s use this
legislation to do so.
It also includes provisions for gang
prevention programs which will help
guide our children toward socially ben-
eficial paths. If we want our children to
learn, we must be able to maintain a
safe and healthy school environment.
Bullying is a massive issue in our Na-
tion’s schools. Over the years, I have
worked with young children as young
as 10 or 12. Some of them have orga-
nized their own antibullying organiza-
tions, looking to us to affirm them,
and I hope in this legislation we will
have the opportunity to do so. If we
want our children to learn, that is
what we must do.
The National Center for Educational
Studies shows that 14 percent of 12- to
18-year-olds surveyed reported being
victims of direct or indirect bullying.
One out of four kids is bullied.
Cyberbullying is in the midst of that.
That is why I urge my colleagues to
support this important legislation.
I also urge them to consider that we
may have short memories on some
things, but I am sure many of us can go
back and remember that middle school,
that early age leading up to 18 and
then going off, some to college and
some on, at some point, to work. We
remember that indecisive moment. We
remember wanting to have friends and
wanting to be liked. And then we re-
member the alternative of those who
might take advantage of that.
With that in mind, here we are with
an opportunity to deal with best prac-
tices and to help our young people in
the best way possible.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to support the
‘‘Tiffany Joslyn Juvenile Accountability Block
Grant Reauthorization and the Bullying Pre-
vention and Intervention Act’’, which we
passed in the last Congress, here in the
House.
This bill is named for Tiffany May Joslyn, a
champion for criminal justice reform, who
served as Deputy Chief Counsel of the Crime
Subcommittee and whose life tragically was
cut short on March 5, 2016, in a car accident,
which sadly also claimed the life of her broth-
er, Derrick. She was just 33 years old.
So passage of this bill last Congress in this
body, was both bitter and sweet. Tiffany would
have been proud, as she championed these
causes fearlessly. This moment is for both her
and for all the millions of young people that
will be helped by this bill.
The Tiffany Joslyn bill will help stem the epi-
demic of juveniles within the criminal justice
system by reauthorizing the Juvenile Account-
ability Block Grant program (JABG) and pro-
viding funding to state and local governments
for the creation of bullying and gang preven-
tion programs.
It also includes provisions for gang preven-
tion programs, which will help guide our chil-
dren towards socially beneficial paths.
If we want our children to learn, we must be
able to maintain a safe and healthy school en-
vironment. Bullying is a massive issue in our
nation’s schools.
The National Center for Educational Studies
reports show that 14 percent of 12- to 18-
year-olds surveyed, reported being victims of
direct or indirect bullying. One out of 4 kids is
bullied.
This is why I urge my colleagues to support
this important legislation.
It will authorize such appropriations as may
be necessary, which is anticipated to be at
least $30 million per year.
In addition to reauthorizing juvenile justice
programs, the Tiffany Joselyn Juvenile Ac-
countability Block Grant Reauthorization and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.019 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1405
February 7, 2019
the Bullying Prevention and Intervention Act
clarifies how to address the occurrences of
bullying through developmentally appropriate
intervention and prevention techniques, which
center on evidence-based models and best
practices that rely on schools and commu-
nities rather than involvement from law en-
forcement and the justice system.
H.R. 494 is designed to help both the vic-
tims and perpetrators of bullying. Research
studies have shown that approximately 25 per-
cent of school bullies will be convicted of a
criminal offense in their adult years.
Bullying is not just in a schoolyard anymore;
it is a crisis that’s taking over our nation. Gone
are the days that children can come home and
seek solace and escape from their bullies;
technological advances have made it easy for
young people to be tormented on social net-
works at any time from any place.
They are never out of harm’s reach. This
needs to end. Americans children should be
protected, and no child should be persecuted
for exercising their American right to be them-
selves.
It is time for us to come to a conclusive so-
lution to America’s bullying crisis so that we
may keep all of our children safe.
My bill, H.R. 494, provides the solution that
we need.
This is why I support this bill and ask my
colleagues to do the same.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
I rise today in support of H.R. 494,
the Tiffany Joslyn Juvenile Account-
ability Block Grant Program Reau-
thorization Act of 2019. The bill reau-
thorizes the Justice Department’s Ju-
venile Accountability Block Grant—
JABG—program, strengthens the pro-
gram to reduce youth crime, and con-
tains vigorous accountability and over-
sight mechanisms to ensure taxpayer
dollars are efficiently and wisely uti-
lized.
I would like to say thank you to the
sponsor of this legislation, Congress-
woman JACKSON LEE, for her hard work
and, as she just explained in great de-
tail, the many things about this bill
that are good for us and why I would
support this bill.
When young people commit crimes,
it has a serious and long-lasting detri-
mental impact. Our children represent
the promise of a bright future and the
hope for continued prosperity. That
means improving the juvenile justice
system and reducing juvenile crimes is
crucial to preserving and protecting
the future of our children and our Na-
tion.
The JABG program provides grants
to States, Tribes, and localities to
strengthen juvenile justice systems
and reduce recidivism among offenders.
The program currently has 17 author-
ized purpose areas, including the im-
plementation of graduated sanctions
for juveniles; support for prosecutorial
initiatives aimed at curbing drug use,
violence, and gangs; accountability-
based school safety initiatives; the es-
tablishment of juvenile drug courts;
and bullying and cyberbullying preven-
tion.
The JABG has a long history of bi-
partisan support among members of
the Judiciary Committee and in Con-
gress as a whole.
Again, I thank my colleague, Con-
gresswoman JACKSON LEE, for her hard
work on this legislation, and I would
encourage my colleagues to support
this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Let me, first of all, thank the rank-
ing member for his kind support of this
legislation. I think we have been to-
gether long enough to know how im-
portant this kind of work is; and a trib-
ute to his father, who certainly prob-
ably ran across a few juveniles in the
course of his work as a law enforce-
ment officer. So I thank the gentleman
so very much.
I want to thank the chairman of the
committee, Mr. NADLER, for his sup-
port of this legislation and continued
work in this area.
Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege to
yield such time as he may consume to
the distinguished gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. JOHNSON), the chair on
the Subcommittee on Courts, Intellec-
tual Property, and the Internet.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, today, I rise in support of H.R. 494,
the Tiffany Joslyn Juvenile Account-
ability Block Grant Program Reau-
thorization Act of 2019.
We cannot, as a nation, continue to
condemn our children into the criminal
justice system. African American
youth are significantly more likely to
be tried as adults. In 2014, although
Black youth were only 14 percent of
the juvenile population, they rep-
resented 52 percent of the youth tried
as adults in this country.
This legislation reauthorizes impor-
tant programs that ensure sentences
for our young people are appropriate
and not excessive, and it funds ac-
countability-based programs to inter-
vene when youth are most vulnerable
in the system. I support this legisla-
tion, and I urge my colleagues to do
the same.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I have no other additional speakers
for this and would inquire of the gen-
tlewoman from Texas if she is ready to
close on this piece of legislation.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, let
me thank the gentleman.
We are inquiring, and I am just going
to say it publicly. We were about to en-
gage the ranking member, but we are
inquiring to be sure that the bill is
complete. Its language was, ‘‘and Anti-
Bullying and Intervention Act.’’ That
is what the bill has carried over a pe-
riod of time, so I was trying to get a
ruling about that addition to the title.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Is it my un-
derstanding the gentlewoman is asking
for a correction to the short title? Is
that what we are looking for?
Ms. JACKSON LEE. That is clearly
what we are trying to do. If I might en-
gage the gentleman in a dialogue: it
reads, ‘‘the Tiffany Joslyn Juvenile Ac-
countability Block Grant Program Re-
authorization Act,’’ and it has always
read, over the years, ‘‘and Anti-Bul-
lying and Intervention Act.’’ It is in
my text here, ‘‘and the Bullying Pre-
vention and Intervention Act.’’
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. I see the
gentlewoman’s concern here on lines 4,
5, and 6 of the bill. I mean, are we
awaiting a ruling from——
Ms. JACKSON LEE. We are awaiting
a ruling, and may have to—but I at
least want to get it on the RECORD. You
see what I am saying?
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. I under-
stand.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. And that is the
name that has been carried over the
years that we have had——
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Look, per-
sonally, from my perspective, to con-
tinue our colloquy here, I have no prob-
lem with the name. I think it was prob-
ably an oversight in drafting from a
previous time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. I believe so.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. But I am
not sure how we would do it at this
point, unless we could agree.
PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRIES
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. From an
inquiry position, is it possible here
that we could unanimous consent a
change to this title?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman may withdraw her pending
motion and re-offer the motion with
the amended text.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, continuing my parliamentary in-
quiry, could it also be a possibility for
the gentlewoman to understand that
this is the intent, and we have this into
the RECORD; that if she was to move
ahead with this, that I am sure this
will be probably well-respected and
well-founded in the Senate; that we
could make the change in the Senate
and have it back over for us so that we
could make this, and not hold up the
further proceedings today?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. That is
not a proper parliamentary inquiry.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Well, it is a
proper question.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, if I
might, I assume I can proceed.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Texas is recognized.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. First of all, I
want to thank the ranking member for
his courtesies, and thank the commit-
tees for their courtesies.
I would not desire to not move for-
ward H.R. 494. So any motion for
amending at this time, I would like
unanimous consent to withdraw and to
emphasize what the bill is in my de-
bate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.007 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1406 February 7, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Does the
gentlewoman seek to withdraw the
pending motion?
Ms. JACKSON LEE. I seek to not
withdraw H.R. 494, just any request for
editing the legislation.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Will the
gentlewoman yield?
Ms. JACKSON LEE. I yield to the
gentleman.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. If I hear
the gentlewoman correctly, what she is
asking is continuing as we were 5 min-
utes ago into this process and con-
tinuing on. Is that the gentlewoman’s
intention?
Ms. JACKSON LEE. That is my de-
sire at this time.
Mr. Speaker, I have no further speak-
ers. Does the gentleman?
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. No, I do
not.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
So I will close at this time asking for
support of this legislation. But as I do
so, I cannot help but thank—I think we
have had——
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Texas will suspend.
The gentleman from Georgia is rec-
ognized to close debate on his side, and
then the gentlewoman will close.
The gentleman from Georgia is rec-
ognized.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, obviously, the gentlewoman from
Texas has ultimate passion on this bill
and I would not say anything except
that we support this legislation. We
look forward to moving it. I am sure
that she will be able to make any
changes she needs to.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I thank the gentleman from Georgia
for engaging in the colloquy on this
important issue, and I think we have
created a record that indicates that
this bill is the Tiffany Joslyn Juvenile
Accountability Block Grant Program
Reauthorization Act, and it does cover
bullying prevention and intervention,
and we will move forward with that un-
derstanding and recognize the impor-
tance of those elements of the bill.
I want to just take a moment in my
closing to acknowledge again the Na-
tional Juvenile Justice and Delin-
quency Prevention Coalition and to in-
dicate their support for a bill that has
gone unfunded now for 6 years, and to
indicate in their letter that H.R. 494
updates the JABG to reflect current re-
search and practices; incentivizes
States to use graduated sanctions and
incentives grounded in positive youth
development; enhanced antibullying
measures, gang prevention programs,
and additional youth violence preven-
tion and intervention services. It also
updates the JABG to include evidence-
based practices such as trauma-in-
formed practices and mental
healthcare.
I am excited about this legislation.
And I close by saying bullying is not
just a schoolyard action anymore; it is
a crisis that is taking over our Nation.
Gone are the days that children can
come home and seek solace and escape
from their bullies. Technological ad-
vances have made it easy for young
people to be tormented on social net-
works at any time from any place.
They are never out of harm’s reach.
This needs to end. American children
should be protected, and no child
should be persecuted for existing or ex-
ercising their American right to just be
themselves. It is time for us to come to
a conclusive solution to America’s bul-
lying crisis so that we may keep all of
our children safe. I think we are on the
right path by passing H.R. 494 and mov-
ing it to the Senate. That is why I sup-
port this bill and ask my colleagues to
do the same.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JACKSON LEE) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 494, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
b 1315
PREVENTING CRIMES AGAINST
VETERANS ACT OF 2019
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 450) to amend title 18, United
States Code, to provide an additional
tool to prevent certain frauds against
veterans, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 450
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Preventing
Crimes Against Veterans Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL TOOL TO PREVENT CERTAIN
FRAUDS AGAINST VETERANS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 63 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘§ 1352. Fraud regarding veterans’ benefits
‘‘(a) Whoever knowingly executes, or at-
tempts to execute, any scheme or artifice to
defraud an individual of veterans’ benefits,
or in connection with obtaining veteran’s
benefits for that individual, shall be fined
under this title, imprisoned not more than 5
years, or both.
‘‘(b) In this section—
‘‘(1) the term ‘veteran’ has the meaning
given that term in section 101 of title 38; and
‘‘(2) the term ‘veterans’ benefits’ means
any benefit provided by Federal law for a
veteran or a dependent or survivor of a vet-
eran.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 63 of
title 18, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following new item:
‘‘1352. Fraud regarding veterans’ benefits.’’.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. BASS) and the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. COLLINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days to revise and extend
their remarks and include extraneous
materials on the bill under consider-
ation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to support
H.R. 450, the Preventing Crimes
Against Veterans Act of 2019, as
amended, which would make it a crime
to knowingly engage in any scheme to
defraud a veteran of his or her veterans
benefits.
This legislation provides an impor-
tant, additional tool for Federal pros-
ecutors to use to combat veterans ben-
efits fraud.
Because we honor their service and
because of the sacrifices our veterans
have made for us, it is particularly im-
portant that we protect them from
fraud and ensure the integrity of the
system of benefits we provide for them.
Currently, there are about 21 million
veterans of the U.S. military, men and
women who selfishly serve our Nation.
Unfortunately, many of our veterans,
as a result of their service, have been
scarred, whether physically, mentally,
or both. Often, it is the scars that we
cannot visually see that are the hard-
est to address.
There are well over 1 million Amer-
ican veterans with service-connected
disabilities.
The suicide rate among veterans is
300 percent above the national average,
and it is estimated that about 30 per-
cent of all Vietnam veterans and 20
percent of veterans of the recent Mid-
dle East conflicts suffer from post-
traumatic stress disorder in a given
year.
In addition, veterans are more likely
than nonveterans to become homeless.
They comprise 17 percent of our home-
less population. On any given night, an
estimated 50,000 veterans are sleeping
on American streets. That is just not
right.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.022 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1407
February 7, 2019
In recognition of the extreme sac-
rifice by our veterans and the hard-
ships many of them continue to face
after their military service, it is our
duty to provide, to the best of our abil-
ity, an appropriate measure of com-
pensation for them, particularly those
in need.
This is the least we can do, and it is
still not enough. There continue to be
issues with the medical care we provide
our veterans and problems about some
benefits never being processed and paid
because of the loss of claims by the
Veterans Benefits Administration.
That is why we must prohibit any
schemes that would defraud a veteran
of their benefits. Under H.R. 450, any-
one convicted of such crime could be
fined, imprisoned, or subject to both
penalties.
This bill is important because it fills
in a gap in enforcement for the protec-
tion of veterans. Under current law,
the VA allows agents or attorneys to
assess a nominal fee to assist claim-
ants who are appealing different as-
pects of their benefits.
It is illegal for a nonattorney or a
person not registered as an agent to as-
sist such claimants. However, if an un-
authorized individual offers a veteran
assistance in person, they cannot be
prosecuted under current Federal law.
The wire fraud statutes do not extend
to such in-person contact.
Because of this, fraudsters routinely
take advantage of this loophole. I am
aware of at least one specific instance
in which a bad actor visited an assisted
living facility in Florida and asked the
staff to round up all veterans for a
seminar. He could not be prosecuted
under the law as it stands today. This
is unconscionable. We need this bill,
because the example I just gave is not
an isolated incident.
More broadly, those who defraud vet-
erans or their surviving spouses or de-
pendents endanger our system of vet-
erans benefits not only by harming the
victims, but also by diminishing re-
sources required to pay the claims and
fund the programs that are needed to
help those who have served our coun-
try.
Mr. Speaker, I commend the bill’s
sponsors, Mr. DEUTCH and Mr. MEAD-
OWS, for their hard work and bipartisan
efforts to address this critical problem.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this important legislation, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself as much time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the bill before us today
makes a small but significant change
to the Federal fraud statutes to protect
veterans from fraudsters who seek to
steal their benefits. It does so by in-
serting a new provision into the crimi-
nal code to complement the mail and
wire fraud statutes.
In recent years, there have been re-
ports of criminals entering nursing
homes in search of elderly veterans
with the intent to defraud them of
their Federal benefits. Like many
crimes of fraud, Mr. Speaker, the worst
part is that people often present them-
selves as helpful to the veteran. This is
a truly heinous crime worthy of Con-
gress’ attention.
This legislation has passed this
House twice by overwhelming margins,
and it also incorporates technical as-
sistance from the Department of Jus-
tice, ensuring it will be effective in
practice.
This is a bill that is supported by
many. My colleague, Mr. MEADOWS
from North Carolina, has spoken elo-
quently about this, and we will be en-
tering his message under general leave
as well.
As a member of the Air Force Re-
serve and an Iraq veteran, Mr. Speaker,
this issue is near and dear to my heart.
I have introduced numerous pieces of
legislation over the years to protect
our veterans and to expedite the bene-
fits process.
Our men and women in uniform have
sacrificed much for us. They are enti-
tled to our gratitude, our respect, and
our protection.
As President Abraham Lincoln re-
minded us 156 years ago, it is our duty
‘‘to care for him who shall have borne
the battle and for his widow, and his
orphan.’’
Mr. Speaker, there is nothing in my
mind more heinous than someone who
tries to defraud a veteran of what they
have earned. This is something that we
can all come around on. This is some-
thing we can all support.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support of this
legislation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. DEUTCH).
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my friend from California for the time
and for her support of this legislation,
and I thank Mr. COLLINS from Georgia
for his service and for his support of
this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of our Nation’s veterans. Our veterans
distinguish themselves in service to
our country, but that distinction is too
often recognized and preyed upon by
scam artists.
H.R. 450, the Preventing Crimes
Against Veterans Act, will close a loop-
hole in our criminal law and will give
Federal law enforcement the tools they
need to crack down on financial fraud
schemes that target our veterans.
My friend, veteran, and former Con-
gressman Tom Rooney introduced this
bill with me in the past two Con-
gresses. It passed by a voice vote in the
115th Congress and passed unanimously
411–0 in the 114th.
It is time to pass it again and to fi-
nally make it law to help our veterans.
Mr. Speaker, I am grateful to Rep-
resentative MEADOWS for continuing
this important bipartisan work to pro-
tect America’s veterans.
In a 2017 survey, AARP found that 78
percent of veterans receive scam
pitches specifically targeted to their
military service. They also found that
16 percent of veterans lost money to fi-
nancial fraud over the past 5 years,
double the rate of nonveterans.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Greg Dover of
Palm Beach County Veterans Services,
who sounded the alarm and helped
fight for this important legislation.
I have heard too many stories from
south Floridians—veterans, survivors,
families, and their veterans service of-
ficers—who have been taken advantage
of through so-called pension poaching
scams that target the supplemental aid
and attendance pension benefit.
In one case, a veteran responded to a
solicitation with the hope of securing
additional pension benefits. He was
met with a high-pressure sales tactic in
his own home. The sales representative
tried to convince him to apply for ben-
efits that he didn’t want and that he
wasn’t eligible for.
In addition to filing an improper
claim on the veteran’s behalf, the
scammer lied and told the veteran that
he was required to enter into a long-
term healthcare contract in order to
receive the benefits.
Pension poachers comb through
south Florida’s senior communities to
look for targets. They gather residents
for high-pressure sales pitches to con-
vince them to file inaccurate claims.
In one case, a scammer intentionally
withheld spousal income from a vet-
eran’s application to illegally unlock
additional benefits. The veteran paid
excessive filing fees of over $600, but
that wasn’t the worst of it. The VA
eventually learned about the addi-
tional unreported income. They
learned that the veteran was not eligi-
ble, and they sought to claw back near-
ly $50,000 in overpayments.
By the time the veteran faced finan-
cial ruin, the scammer had disappeared
and couldn’t be found.
As our senior population continues to
grow, aging veterans will require as-
sistance with activities of daily living
that the veterans aid and attendance
benefit can provide. The application of
financial eligibility requirements of-
fers an opportunity for scam artists to
take advantage of our most vulnerable
American veterans with empty prom-
ises and hidden consequences.
Veterans don’t have to face benefit
hurdles alone, but they shouldn’t be
easy targets for criminals either.
This legislation will help law en-
forcement fight back against pension
poachers and other scammers. It will
root out scam operations. And it will
protect our veterans from falling prey
to these ploys.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
be there for our veterans, just as they
have been there for us. Please vote
‘‘yes’’ on this important legislation.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia for her leadership, and I thank
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.026 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1408 February 7, 2019
both the ranking member and the full
committee chair. And I thank Mr.
DEUTCH from Florida, for it looks like,
in this instance, Florida and Texas and
many other States certainly are—how
should I say it?—in coalition with the
number of veterans that we have and
the stories that we have heard about
fraudulent activities as it relates to
our veterans.
I would think that all veterans want
to do after battling on behalf of this
Nation and securing this Nation is to
come home to a safe and secure com-
munity and people who welcome them
and treat them with the dignity that
they deserve. Unfortunately, because
veterans have resources through their
veterans benefits, they are targeted by
those who have no goodwill, but evil
intent.
Currently, there are approximately
21 million veterans of the United
States Armed Forces living in our
country. It is estimated that about 30
percent of all Vietnam veterans have
had post-traumatic stress disorder, and
up to 20 percent of veterans serving in
more recent conflicts in the Middle
East are estimated to suffer from
PTSD in a given year.
Given the extreme sacrifice of our
veterans and the hardships many of
them continue to face after their mili-
tary service, it is our duty, to the best
of our ability, to have an appropriate
measure of compensation for them,
particularly for those in need.
For instance, we provide disability
payments to those with service-con-
nected disabilities, pensions for vet-
erans with limited income, education
and training under the GI Bill, and var-
ious life insurance benefits.
Over 71,000 veterans live in my con-
gressional district.
H.R. 450 provides law enforcement
with another tool to bring to justice
those who knowingly defraud a veteran
of their benefits or engage in fraud in
connection with obtaining veterans
benefits.
Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, there
are many of them. 476,515 veterans are
living with PTSD and need their bene-
fits.
Mr. Speaker, how many have come to
us in our offices and indicated that,
through a telemarketing scheme, they
have given up their benefits or they
have taken their benefits to invest or
buy something that either is never
seen or doesn’t help them, and never is
their money returning back to them.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
from Florida in particular for being
sensitive enough to listen to his con-
stituents. In listening to my constitu-
ents and solving cases in our offices,
there are cases that come into our of-
fices where veterans have had their
benefits taken away or they wind up
homeless because resources are taken
away and they don’t have the nec-
essary resources.
This is a good, good step to acknowl-
edge their service and how important
they are; to stop those who think that
they are easy prey from defrauding our
veterans; and to make the right kind of
legal traps, if you will, that law en-
forcement can place, not for veterans
who have served us, but for those who
wish to defraud them.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate the gen-
tleman from Florida and ask my col-
leagues to support H.R. 450, the Pre-
venting Crimes Against Veterans Act
of 2019.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong support
of H.R. 450, the ‘‘Preventing Crimes Against
Veterans Act of 2017,’’ which provides an ad-
ditional tool to deter, detect, and punish fraud-
ulent activity against veterans.
The Preventing Crimes Against Veterans
Act of 2017 would make it unlawful to know-
ingly execute, or attempt to execute, any
scheme or artifice to defraud an individual of
veterans’ benefits, or in connection with ob-
taining veterans benefits.
We honor our veterans’ service and their
sacrifices; it is important that we protect vet-
erans from fraud and ensure the integrity of
the system of benefits we provide for them.
Currently, there are approximately 21 million
veterans of the United States Armed Forces
living in our country.
It is estimated that about 30 percent of all
Vietnam veterans have had post-traumatic
stress disorder (PTSD) and up to 20 percent
of veterans serving in more recent conflicts in
the Middle East are estimated to suffer from
PTSD in a given year.
Given the extreme sacrifice by our veterans
and the hardships many of them continue to
face after their military service, it is our duty to
provide, to the best of our ability, an appro-
priate measure of compensation for them—
particularly for those in need.
For instance, we provide disability payments
to those with service-connected disabilities,
pensions for veterans with limited incomes,
education and training under the GI Bill, and
various life insurance benefits.
Over 71,749 veterans reside in my 18th
Congressional District and one of my top prior-
ities is to fight for their benefits and to fight for
the rights of our most patriotic Americans.
H.R. 450 provides law enforcement with an-
other tool to bring to justice those who know-
ingly defraud a veteran of their benefits or en-
gage in fraud in connection with obtaining vet-
erans’ benefits.
Mr. Speaker, 476,515 veterans are living
with PTSD and need their benefits to obtain
needed care for their disorder; it is criminal
that some are left untreated.
Those who defraud veterans and the sys-
tem of veterans’ benefits harm the victims and
diminish resources needed to pay the claims
and fund the programs that are needed to
help those who have served their country.
I urge all Members to join me in voting to
pass H.R. 450.
b 1330
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I think this is something we can all
get around. I think, again, when we
deal with our veterans, I have made the
comments many times before, not spe-
cifically in dealing with this fraud and
dealing with the issues here that are
just heinous—and anybody who would
do this definitely would put themselves
on the margins of society—but also on
a broader picture with our veterans.
I think this scenario where we can all
come together—I long for a time in
which my constituents services folks
back in Georgia, I long for a time when
I listen to their report each week, and
I want to come to a time when there
are no veteran issues.
We should strive in our country to
have a time in which no veteran should
feel the need to have to go to their
Congressman to get help. That is some-
thing that we can all shoot for. That is
a worthy goal. I would love to have
that time to let them help other people
and not these men and women who
have served us so proudly. Mr. Speaker,
I know you would join me in that.
Mr. Speaker, I ask for support of this
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, we should do
everything we can to protect our vet-
erans who have given so much of them-
selves to our Nation.
Our veterans have laid their lives on
the line. We owe them much, and we
should repay our gratitude whenever
we can. Certainly, helping to ensure
that their veterans benefits are pro-
tected against fraud, as H.R. 450 would
do, is one way of expressing our appre-
ciation, and it is the right and the just
thing to do. For these reasons, I urge
my colleagues to join me in supporting
this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in
support of a bill to provide real consequences
against those who would seek to commit fraud
at the expense of America’s Veterans.
H.R 450, the Bipartisan ‘‘Preventing Crimes
Against Veterans Act,’’ would close loopholes
in existing laws and provide law enforcement
with additional tools to crack down on fraud
cases in connection with Veterans’ benefits.
In recent history, financial predators have in-
creasingly begun targeting America’s veterans,
particularly those in low income housing, look-
ing to commit fraud and rob them of their fed-
eral benefits. Many of these fraudsters pose
as federal caseworkers, offering to expedite
Veterans’ claims or assist them with unan-
swered questions—only to charge them exor-
bitant fees while providing little or no service
in return.
Absolutely no veteran should be defrauded
of their well-earned benefits, particularly those
in need. Those who defraud veterans and
their families of their benefits not only harm
these victims, but they also diminish resources
required to pay the claims and fund the pro-
grams needed to assist those who have
served our Nation.
Mr. Speaker, Congress has both a responsi-
bility and an obligation to step up and protect
our Veterans against this activity.
Unfortunately, current law hamstrings pros-
ecutors and allows for criminals engaging in
this type of conduct to escape with minimal
penalty.
H.R. 450 would make needed changes to
that process. It would impose new penalties
on fraudsters—including a fine, imprisonment
of up to five years, or both. By attaching a
criminal penalty to this behavior, the bill pro-
vides prosecutors with the tools to take ade-
quate and appropriate legal action against
those who seek to defraud veterans.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.027 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1409
February 7, 2019
This is a common sense reform that would
send a loud and clear message of support to
those who have served our country so faith-
fully and protect them against any effort to rob
them of their hard earned benefits.
Finally, I want to thank the gentleman from
Florida, TED DEUTCH, who is the lead Demo-
cratic cosponsor, for his leadership on this im-
portant measure.
I support this bill and I urge my colleagues
to do the same.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
BASS) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 450, as amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, on that I de-
mand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
PUT TRAFFICKING VICTIMS FIRST
ACT OF 2019
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 507) to direct the Attorney Gen-
eral to study issues relating to human
trafficking, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 507
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Put Traf-
ficking Victims First Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. TRAINING FOR PROSECUTIONS OF TRAF-
FICKERS AND SUPPORT FOR STATE
SERVICES FOR VICTIMS OF TRAF-
FICKING.
It is the sense of Congress that a portion of
the funds available for training and tech-
nical assistance under section 107(b)(2)(B)(ii)
of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence
Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C.
7105(b)(2)(B)(ii)) should be devoted to advanc-
ing the following goals:
(1) Increasing the personal safety of victim
service providers, who may face intimidation
or retaliation for their activities.
(2) Promoting a trauma-informed, evi-
dence-based, and victim-centered approach
to the provision of services for victims of
trafficking.
(3) Ensuring that law enforcement officers
and prosecutors make every attempt to de-
termine whether an individual is a victim of
human trafficking before arresting the indi-
vidual for, or charging the individual with,
an offense that is a direct result of the vic-
timization of the individual.
(4) Effectively prosecuting traffickers and
individuals who patronize or solicit children
for sex, and facilitating access for child vic-
tims of commercial sex trafficking to the
services and protections afforded to other
victims of sexual violence.
(5) Encouraging States to improve efforts
to identify and meet the needs of human
trafficking victims, including through inter-
net outreach and other methods that are re-
sponsive to the needs of victims in their
communities.
(6) Ensure victims of trafficking, including
United States citizens, lawful permanent
residents, and foreign nationals are eligible
for services.
SEC. 3. WORKING TO DEVELOP METHODOLOGIES
TO ASSESS PREVALENCE OF HUMAN
TRAFFICKING.
(a) WORKING GROUP.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Attor-
ney General, in consultation with other Fed-
eral entities engaged in efforts to combat
human trafficking, shall establish an expert
working group, which shall include survivors
of human trafficking, experts on sex and
labor trafficking, representatives from orga-
nizations collecting data on human traf-
ficking, and law enforcement officers. The
working group shall, utilizing, to the extent
practicable, existing efforts of agencies, task
forces, States, localities, tribes, research in-
stitutions, and organizations—
(A) identify barriers to the collection of
data on the incidence of sex and labor traf-
ficking; and
(B) recommend practices to promote better
data collection and analysis.
(2) PILOT TESTING.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Attorney General shall implement a pilot
project to test promising methodologies
studied under paragraph (1).
(b) REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Attorney General, in consultation with the
Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health
and Human Services, the Secretary of Home-
land Security, and the Director of the
Human Smuggling and Trafficking Center,
shall submit to Congress a report on—
(A) Federal efforts to estimate the preva-
lence of human trafficking at the national
and regional levels;
(B) the effectiveness of current policies and
procedures to address the needs of victims of
trafficking; and
(C) an analysis of demographic characteris-
tics of victims of trafficking in different re-
gions of the United States and recommenda-
tions for how to address the unique
vulnerabilities of different victims.
(2) INPUT FROM RELEVANT PARTIES.—In de-
veloping the report under paragraph (1), the
Attorney General shall seek input from the
United States Advisory Council on Human
Trafficking, victims of trafficking, human
trafficking survivor advocates, service pro-
viders for victims of sex and labor traf-
ficking, and the President’s Interagency
Task Force on Human Trafficking.
(c) SURVEY.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Attor-
ney General, in coordination with Federal,
State, local, and Tribal governments, and
private organizations, including victim serv-
ice providers and expert researchers, shall
develop and execute a survey of survivors
seeking and receiving victim assistance serv-
ices for the purpose of improving the provi-
sion of services to human trafficking victims
and victim identification in the United
States. Survey results shall be made publicly
available on the website of the Department
of Justice.
(d) NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS.—No additional
funds are authorized to carry out this sec-
tion.
SEC. 4. REPORT ON PROSECUTORS SEEKING RES-
TITUTION IN TRAFFICKING CASES.
Not later than 1 year after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Attorney General,
in consultation with the Administrative Of-
fice of the United States Courts, shall sub-
mit to Congress a report on efforts to in-
crease restitution to victims of human traf-
ficking.
SEC. 5. SENSE OF CONGRESS ENCOURAGING
STATES TO ADOPT PROTECTIONS
FOR VICTIMS OF TRAFFICKING.
Congress recognizes and applauds the State
legislative bodies that have taken tremen-
dous steps to adopt protections and services
for victims of trafficking. Congress encour-
ages States to—
(1) uphold the dignity of human trafficking
survivors;
(2) ensure the safety, confidentiality, and
well-being of victims of trafficking, while
recognizing symptoms of trauma and coping
mechanisms that may impact victims’ inter-
actions with law enforcement, the justice
system, and service providers;
(3) implement screening mechanisms to
identify and extend appropriate services to
children in the custody of child protective
services agencies, the juvenile justice sys-
tem, or the criminal justice system who are
victims of trafficking;
(4) promote greater access to child welfare
services for, rather than criminalization of,
child victims of sex trafficking;
(5) develop a 24-hour emergency response
plan by which victims of human trafficking
may receive immediate protection, shelter,
and support from a victim assistance coordi-
nator when those victims are first identified;
(6) adopt protections for adult victims of
trafficking, such as protection if the victim’s
safety is at risk, comprehensive trauma-in-
formed, long-term, culturally competent
care and healing services, mental health
services to relieve traumatic stress, housing,
education (including, where appropriate, vo-
cational training and employment assist-
ance), mentoring, language assistance, drug
and substance abuse services, and legal serv-
ices;
(7) ensure that child sex trafficking vic-
tims are treated as children in need of child
protective services and receive appropriate
care in the child welfare, rather than juve-
nile justice, system;
(8) encourage the adoption of procedures
for human trafficking victims that are con-
sistent with those afforded to victims of sex-
ual assault, rape, child sexual abuse, or in-
cest to allow human trafficking victim to
clear records, expunge convictions, and va-
cate adjudications related to prostitution
and nonviolent offenses that arose as a di-
rect result of being trafficked, including pro-
tections for foreign nationals who are being
removed and those who are losing or deter-
mined to be inadmissible for immigration
benefits as a result of the aforementioned
human trafficking victim related conviction
or arrest; and
(9) ensure victims of trafficking, including
United States citizens, lawful permanent
residents, and foreign nationals are eligible
for services.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. BASS) and the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. COLLINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days to revise and extend
their remarks and include extraneous
material on the bill under consider-
ation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.012 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1410 February 7, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I introduced H.R. 507,
the Put Trafficking Victims First Act,
with my colleague, the gentlewoman
from Missouri (Mrs. WAGNER).
I thank Mrs. WAGNER for her hard
work over the years on this important
legislation. We are here today because
of her dedication and willingness to
work in a bipartisan manner to address
the problems faced by victims of traf-
ficking. We both recognize that Con-
gress must do more to combat this hei-
nous crime.
H.R. 507 is designed to ensure that
survivors of human trafficking do not
go unnoticed. First, it expresses the
sense of Congress that law enforcement
set aside a portion of the funds they re-
ceive for combating human trafficking
to ensure that victims receive support
that is trauma informed and victim
centered. This will provide victims
with a better chance of recovering from
their experiences.
Second, this legislation addresses the
tremendous need for expanded victim
services, improved data gathering on
the prevalence and trends in human
trafficking, and effective mechanisms
to identify and work with victims in an
effective and respectful manner.
It directs the Attorney General to
form a broadly representative working
group to assess the status of the collec-
tion of data on human trafficking and
recommend best practices, conduct a
survey of providers regarding the pro-
vision of services to them, as well as
prepare a report to Congress on Federal
efforts to estimate the prevalence of
human trafficking, the effectiveness of
current policies addressing victims’
needs, and analyzing the demographic
characteristics of trafficking victims,
and recommendations on how to ad-
dress their unique vulnerabilities.
The bill also directs the Attorney
General to implement a pilot project
testing the methodologies identified by
the working group and requires the At-
torney General to report on efforts to
increase restitution to victims of
human trafficking.
With this type of information in
hand, Congress can provide appropriate
oversight of efforts to combat human
trafficking; and researchers, advocates,
and law enforcement agencies will all
have a shared resource as they con-
tinue to develop innovative approaches
to stop traffickers.
Finally, the bill expresses the sense
of Congress that States should imple-
ment trauma-informed, victim-cen-
tered care for all trafficking victims.
Forced labor and human trafficking
are among the world’s fastest growing
enterprises. Globally, these inhumane
practices generate an estimated $150
billion a year in profit. That is three
times the amount that the top Fortune
500 companies made in 2016.
Criminals are profiting from the sys-
tematic abuse of vulnerable people
around the globe. Sadly, women and
girls represent approximately 71 per-
cent of these victims.
The U.S. State Department estimates
that between 14,000 and 17,000 people
are trafficked into our country from
other nations every year. These vic-
tims are part of the estimated hun-
dreds of thousands of victims of traf-
ficking currently living within our
communities.
My home State of California has the
ninth largest economy in the world. It
is also one of the Nation’s top four des-
tinations for human traffickers, espe-
cially for child sex trafficking.
In 2018, of the 5,000 reports to the Na-
tional Human Trafficking Hotline, 760
of them were from California. As the
founder of the Congressional Caucus on
Foster Youth, I am very aware of the
risks to vulnerable youth. Foster
youth, along with runaways and home-
less youth, are at the highest risk of
being sex-trafficked.
Experts agree that the foster care
system is yielding a disproportionate
number of human trafficking victims.
Nearly 60 percent of all child sex traf-
ficking victims have histories in the
child welfare system. We cannot allow
this to continue.
Washington, D.C., is home to the
most powerful government in the
world, yet even in D.C., women and
girls are being trafficked.
Organizations like Courtney’s House
are working to improve the outcome of
trafficking survivors.
H.R. 507 will improve the implemen-
tation of the Justice for Victims of
Trafficking Act of 2015.
Trafficking victims face many chal-
lenges, even after they are freed from
trafficking rings, ranging from access
to social services and utilizing assist-
ance programs. Survivors face difficul-
ties navigating social services and as-
sistance programs.
A component of H.R. 507 encourages
law enforcement and prosecuting agen-
cies to make every attempt to deter-
mine whether an individual has been a
victim of human trafficking before
charging them with offenses that are
the result of their victimization. This
is of particular concern to commu-
nities of color.
Mr. Speaker, Congress’ intent is
clear. Protecting victims from the hei-
nous crime of human trafficking is of
the utmost concern. I am proud to have
worked across the aisle with Congress-
woman WAGNER on this important leg-
islation, and I urge our colleagues to
support it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today in support of H.R. 507,
the Put Trafficking Victims First Act
of 2019.
Human trafficking is a form of mod-
ern-day slavery, which has taken its
toll on communities across our Nation.
It is a multibillion-dollar criminal in-
dustry that denies freedom to nearly 25
million people around the globe.
Traffickers use violence, threats, de-
ception, debt bondage, and other hor-
rendous tactics to force people to en-
gage in commercial sex or to provide
labor or services against their will.
This creates an enormous need for ex-
panded victims services, improved data
on the prevalence and trends of human
trafficking, and effective mechanisms
to identify and rescue trafficking vic-
tims.
H.R. 507 expresses the sense of Con-
gress that a portion of the funds avail-
able under the Victims of Trafficking
and Violence Protection Act of 2000
should be devoted to increasing the
safety of victim service providers,
many of whom are threatened because
of their positions. It also promotes a
trauma-informed, evidence-based, and
victim-centered approach for providing
services to the victims of trafficking.
Additionally, H.R. 507 promotes the
effective prosecution of human traf-
fickers and individuals who patronize
or solicit children for sex. It encour-
ages States to improve efforts to iden-
tify and meet the needs of human traf-
ficking victims.
The bill also establishes a working
group to identify barriers to the collec-
tion of data on the incidence of sex and
labor trafficking and recommended
practices to promote better data col-
lection and analysis.
Finally, H.R. 507 will provide assist-
ance to trafficking victims seeking res-
titution, many of whom still face many
obstacles in Federal court. The bill di-
rects the Attorney General to report
on efforts to increase mandatory res-
titution for victims by providing Con-
gress with the relevant data.
Mr. Speaker, this has been an issue
in my home State of Georgia. It is one
that I am very proud to know that,
under Governor Deal, our previous
Governor, and continuing under Gov-
ernor Kemp, that around, especially,
the city of Atlanta, a very inter-
national city, it has also, unfortu-
nately, become an area in which sexual
exportation and human trafficking was
something that became a scar and is
still affecting our city. We saw that
around the Super Bowl and the several
arrests that took place.
This is something that needs to be
erased from our vocabulary. This is
something that does not need to be
talked about. Again, human trafficking
anywhere in the world is wrong and,
hopefully, will be relegated to the an-
nals of the history books at some
point.
I want to commend the gentlewoman
from California (Ms. BASS) and also my
friend, the gentlewoman from Missouri
(Mrs. WAGNER), for their tireless devo-
tion to continuing this path and bring-
ing this forward each Congress.
I am looking forward to this actually
becoming law during this session, and I
would urge all of my colleagues to sup-
port this.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Texas, (Ms. JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman very much,
and I acknowledge the words of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.031 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1411
February 7, 2019
ranking member of the full committee
and acknowledge the work of the chair-
man, Mr. NADLER, of the committee.
I am glad that these bills that we
have just debated and one coming up
that I know is Mr. COLLINS’ bill dealing
with the fees to provide resources to
those who file lawsuits, justified law-
suits, and have no recourse, these bills
are coming out of the Judiciary Com-
mittee in a bipartisan manner.
This is a very important statement
that we are making with the new ma-
jority and working with the minority
on very important issues.
This is an issue that has claimed our
attention for decades, the fact that we
are working every day to improve and,
as Mr. COLLINS has just indicated, to
never to have to talk about sex traf-
ficking, human trafficking again. If we
can eliminate this scourge, I think all
of us will find peace.
Just a few years ago, as the ranking
member on the Homeland Security
Committee, we did the first human
trafficking hearing with then-Chair-
man MCCAUL and Ranking Member
THOMPSON in Houston, Texas, to listen
to many who claimed and documented
that Houston, Texas, was the epicenter
of human trafficking in that region, in
the Nation.
It is not something that we are proud
of, but we are proud of the advocates
who work without ceasing with law en-
forcement to put, again, a red stop sign
in front of this travesty.
So I acknowledge the work that has
been done by many of my colleagues,
the work that has been done by Con-
gresswoman WAGNER and many others
who gathered.
That hearing was the first in history
in that community, and the first field
hearing that was addressing that ques-
tion. It was quite a few years ago.
But I want to acknowledge from my
hometown Jackie Aluotto, who has
found and saved lives of victims of
human trafficking in our own commu-
nity; Kathryn Griffin, who, likewise,
has been at the forefront of stopping
human trafficking, and particularly of
young children sex trafficking, and has
been a refuge for many who have suf-
fered; Constable Alan Rosen; Constable
May Walker; Sheriff Gonzalez; Mayor
Sylvester Turner, who has an out-
standing program in the city of Hous-
ton.
So I rise to support H.R. 507 for sev-
eral reasons, not the least of which
being how much it will impact the
local community and the work that is
being done. This measure will strength-
en the effectiveness of the 2017 act in
various ways, which I am very proud to
have supported.
b 1345
The 2017 act directed the Attorney
General to study issues related to
human trafficking in response to traf-
ficking concerning services and bene-
fits for victims, criminal justice, do-
mestic sex trafficking of children, and
interagency coordination and training.
For example, H.R. 507 increases the
personal safety of victim service pro-
viders who may face intimidation or
retaliation for their activities. While
many of us may not realize, sometimes
these providers within the context of
the law, may have one or two of these
individuals at their own homes, or have
secreted them somewhere, so they are
in the eye of the storm.
As I indicated, we had the first
human trafficking hearing of any com-
mittee in Houston, Texas, several years
ago under the auspices of the Home-
land Security Committee.
I am proud of the facts that came
out, giving the local people the oppor-
tunity to talk about the difficulties
and challenges that they face trying to
stop the scourge of human trafficking,
particularly with young people.
Our committee determined this very
point, that the safety of these victims
should be our number one concern. In-
nocent people who have been turned
into human trafficking products by the
heinous traffickers deserve our protec-
tion. As such, this training and funding
is critical to ensure that human traf-
ficking victims are treated as victims
and afforded justice, respect, and dig-
nity.
Second, H.R. 507 ensures that law en-
forcement officers and prosecutors
make every attempt to determine
whether an individual is a victim of
human trafficking before arresting the
individual for or charging the indi-
vidual with an offense that is a direct
result of victimization of that indi-
vidual.
This will ensure that law enforce-
ment officers do not add trauma and
pain to the victims that have already
endured an enormous amount of suf-
fering.
Let me remind my colleagues, that
human trafficking, even beyond the
scourge of drugs, is a product that can
be used or is used over and over again.
How devastating, how deadly, how hei-
nous it is that these individuals can be
used in human trafficking, sex traf-
ficking, and the acts that they may be
called upon to do over and over again.
As a result, H.R. 507 will ensure that
most effective practices are standard-
ized so that sex trafficking victims are
ultimately protected and treated with
respect at all times.
Lastly, the legislation ensures the ef-
fective prosecution of traffickers and
individuals. For these reasons, I would
say that this would be a bill that all of
us support. Let’s put up more than a
stop sign and fight human trafficking
and sex trafficking.
Support this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 507,
which directs the Attorney General to study
issues relating to human trafficking, and for
other purposes.
Madam Speaker, it is of the upmost impor-
tance that we pass this important legislation
and uphold the ideals of this country by pro-
tecting human trafficking victims.
This bill is intended to improve the imple-
mentation of the Putting Trafficking Victims
First Act of 2017.
The 2017 act directed the Attorney General
to study issues relating to human trafficking in
response to trafficking concerning services
and benefits for victims, criminal justice, do-
mestic sex trafficking of children, and inter-
agency coordination and training.
I support H.R. 507 for several reasons. This
measure will strengthen the effectiveness of
the 2017 act in various ways, which I was
proud to support.
For example, H.R. 507 increases the per-
sonal safety of victim service providers, who
may face intimidation or retaliation for their ac-
tivities.
We had the first human trafficking hearing of
any committee in Houston, Texas, several
years ago under the auspices of the Home-
land Security Committee.
Our committee determined this very point:
that the safety of these victims should be our
number one concern.
Innocent people who have been turned into
human traffic products by the heinous traf-
fickers deserve our protection.
As such, this training and funding is critical
to ensure that human trafficking victims are
treated as victims and afforded justice, re-
spect, and dignity.
Second, H.R. 507 ensures that law enforce-
ment officers and prosecutors make every at-
tempt to determine whether an individual is a
victim of human trafficking before arresting the
individual for, or charging the individual with,
an offense that is a direct result of the victim-
ization of the individual.
This will ensure that law enforcement offi-
cers do not add trauma and pain to the victims
that have already endured an enormous
amount of suffering.
As a result, H.R. 507 will help ensure the
most effective practices are standardized so
that sex trafficking victims are ultimately pro-
tected and treated with respect at all times.
Lastly, the legislation ensures the effective
prosecution of traffickers and individuals who
patronize or solicit children for sex and facili-
tate access for child victims of commercial sex
trafficking to the services and protections af-
forded to other victims of sexual violence.
H.R. 507 identifies a broad range of impor-
tant initiatives that States should undertake
that would provide meaningful assistance to
these victims: increasing victims’ personal
safety, ensuring the correct treatment of
human trafficking victims by law enforcement
and, ensuring the effective prosecution of all
traffickers.
Each of these initiatives should help ensure
that these victims are not revictimized and
help enable them to be guided back to a nor-
malized life.
Mr. Speaker, for all of these reasons, I am
pleased to support this bill.
This legislation is all about pointing out, find-
ing, saving the victims, making sure they get
treatment, and making sure that human traf-
ficking is identified.
I am also pleased that this measure, main-
tains the commitment to maintaining a report
on State safe harbor laws.
As we all know, safe harbors play a critical
role in preventing youth, forced into the sex
trade, from being revictimized again and stig-
matized a second time by the criminal justice
system, almost similar to the little girl who was
looking for love.
Instead, she got victimized and turned into
a human trafficking product.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.032 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1412 February 7, 2019
H.R. 507 also fosters better collaboration
among the Federal, State, and local law en-
forcement in the fight against sex trafficking
and encourages States to adopt protections
for trafficking victims by providing rehabilitation
and recovery services for victims of human
trafficking.
Accordingly, I urge my colleagues to support
this measure and, as well, to be reminded of
all those children who will be helped and
saved.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield such time as she may con-
sume to the gentlewoman from Mis-
souri (Mrs. WAGNER). She is someone to
whom this has been a tireless call. She
has been a sponsor of this, and out-
spoken on this, a fighter on this, along
with the other folks who have talked
about this.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the ranking member very much for his
voice on this issue and so many others,
and I thank my dear friend from Cali-
fornia, KAREN BASS, for her leadership.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge my
colleagues to support the Put Traf-
ficking Victims First Act, which I
wrote and introduced in the last Con-
gress with Congresswoman KAREN
BASS.
The bill passed unanimously in May
of 2017, and I hope that the House will
again stand with the victims of human
trafficking. Too often, trafficking vic-
tims are overlooked and underserved.
In my home State of Missouri, I have
met with many survivors and listened
to their painful stories. They need help
to rebuild their lives and that is ex-
actly what this legislation will do.
America’s courtrooms need to adopt
victim-centered practices oriented to-
wards justice and recovery. While vic-
tims technically have access to manda-
tory restitution in Federal courts, the
sad reality is that according to one es-
timate, sex trafficking victims get res-
titution in only 14 percent of Federal
sex trafficking cases. This is unaccept-
able, Mr. Speaker.
This legislation will direct the Attor-
ney General to work on increasing res-
titution and to adopt victim-friendly
procedures in criminal cases. We be-
lieve the trauma-informed care helps
victims recover and cooperate with law
enforcement so we may put pimps and
buyers behind bars.
Lack of help for victims in the jus-
tice system can lead to revictimiza-
tion, or even result in victims being
criminalized for offenses that they
were forced to commit.
The Putting Trafficking Victims
First Act of 2019 encourages training
for agencies, law enforcement, and
prosecutors across the country to im-
plement victim-centered approaches to
investigating and preventing traf-
ficking.
We also encourage law enforcement
to make every attempt to determine
whether an individual’s participation
in trafficking is free from force, fraud,
and coercion before arresting or charg-
ing them.
The lack of good data on how to find
and rescue victims of trafficking is an-
other major challenge in the United
States. We don’t really know how best
to identify and locate victims; what
proportion are coming from foster care;
or their ages; ethnicity; or other char-
acteristics. We can’t help victims if we
can’t find them, and we desperately
need to improve victim outreach.
The Putting Trafficking Victims
First Act of 2019 establishes a national
working group to develop a public sur-
vey of survivors and robust methodolo-
gies to estimate the prevalence of traf-
ficking. This will help us understand
how and where victims are accessing
help to improve service provision.
Finally, victims of trafficking are
mostly served at the State level. So it
is critical that States improve how
they respond to victims. We need to
make sure that all child trafficking
victims receive the same level of care
that any other child abuse survivor
would receive. The bill encourages
States to improve outreach, screen
children entering child welfare services
and the justice system, screen foreign
nationals who will be labor trafficked,
create safe harbor laws, and develop
emergency response plans.
Together, we can get victims of traf-
ficking out of dangerous and abusive
situations and make trauma-informed
services more accessible.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
put trafficking victims first and join
Congresswoman BASS and myself in
voting for this legislation.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Ten-
nessee (Mr. COHEN).
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Ms. BASS for yielding. I just wanted to
stand on this bill because this is an im-
portant area and I want to commend
Representative BASS for bringing it.
I am happy to be a cosponsor, but I
particularly thank Congresswoman
ANN WAGNER. When we had a bill last
year, the SOAR Act, Stop, Observe, Act
and Respond, to Health and Wellness
Act, a pilot program to train
healthcare workers who come into con-
tact with people who have been sexu-
ally trafficked, they oftentimes do see
healthcare workers because they have
either been beaten up by their pimps or
they have gotten a venereal disease.
They might have to go in for birth
control or for some other reason sexu-
ally related, oftentimes health related,
so that we need to train health workers
to observe and to know when they were
seeing somebody trafficked to stop, to
observe, to see if that person might be
in that situation, and then to ask
them, and then to send them to an
agency that can help them.
This was an important bill that we
were able to pass in the Senate and
make law.
Representative KINZINGER helped,
Representative CÁRDENAS helped, but
Representative WAGNER was my star,
and I want to thank her so much for
working with us and helping on the
Senate side, particularly, to get it
passed.
I am proud to be a cosponsor of this
bill. I also want to mention that Rep-
resentative BURCHETT is a strong spon-
sor and supporter of this type of legis-
lation, and a great American.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, much has been said
about this bill. I think all of it is very
timely, and I think, again, as we look
at this, this is a time in which we all
come together and make a very strong
statement in support of this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support it, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Organizations like Courtney’s House
are working to improve the outcomes
for sex trafficking survivors. Tina
Frundt, the director of Courtney’s
House right here in D.C., asserts that
African American and Latino commu-
nities are not immune to human traf-
ficking. Her organization provides
trauma-informed services to sex traf-
ficking survivors between the ages of 12
and 19.
Tina is also a child sex trafficking
survivor. As a 9-year-old girl in foster
care, she was sex trafficked. By the
time Tina was 14, she became one of 2
million children who run away from
home each year. Nearly 200,000 of them
will be sex trafficked.
In Tina’s case, her adult abuser was
more than twice her age, and forced
her to become a child sex worker. It
took her years to escape. Now Tina
helps children like her recent client, a
12-year-old girl whose 25-year-old
abuser called himself her boyfriend
rather than her trafficker.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 507 supports efforts
to stop human trafficking. We are
making progress in protecting those
who have been caught up in this hor-
rific criminal activity, and this bill is
a great example of what we can accom-
plish when we focus on helping the
most vulnerable among us.
We have an obligation not only to
end human trafficking, but to support
people who undergo horrific experi-
ences like these. This bill is yet an-
other step in the right direction.
Once again, I would like to thank
Congresswoman WAGNER and Congress-
woman JACKSON LEE for all of their ef-
forts in this regard. I was very pleased
to team up with Congresswoman WAG-
NER again on this legislation, and hope
that we can continue to work on these
issues in the future.
Mr. Speaker, for these reasons, I urge
my colleagues to join me in supporting
this bill today, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
BASS) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, H.R. 507.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.013 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1413
February 7, 2019
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, on that I de-
mand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
OPEN BOOK ON EQUAL ACCESS TO
JUSTICE ACT
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 752) to amend titles 5 and 28,
United States Code, to require the
maintenance of databases on awards of
fees and other expenses to prevailing
parties in certain administrative pro-
ceedings and court cases to which the
United States is a party, and for other
purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 752
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Open Book
on Equal Access to Justice Act’’.
SEC. 2. MODIFICATION OF EQUAL ACCESS TO
JUSTICE PROVISIONS.
(a) AGENCY PROCEEDINGS.—Section 504 of
title 5, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ‘‘,
United States Code’’;
(2) by redesignating subsection (f) as sub-
section (h); and
(3) by striking subsection (e) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(e) The Chairman of the Administrative
Conference of the United States shall create
and maintain online a searchable database
containing the following information with
respect to each award of fees and other ex-
penses under this section:
‘‘(1) The case name and number of the ad-
versary adjudication, if available.
‘‘(2) The name of the agency involved in
the adversary adjudication.
‘‘(3) A description of the claims in the ad-
versary adjudication.
‘‘(4) The name of each party to whom the
award was made, as such party is identified
in the order or other agency document mak-
ing the award.
‘‘(5) The amount of the award.
‘‘(6) The basis for the finding that the posi-
tion of the agency concerned was not sub-
stantially justified.
‘‘(f) The online searchable database de-
scribed in subsection (f) may not reveal any
information the disclosure of which is pro-
hibited by law or court order.
‘‘(g) The head of each agency shall provide
to the Chairman of the Administrative Con-
ference of the United States all information
requested by the Chairman to comply with
the requirements of subsections (e) and (f)
not later than 60 days after the date on
which the request is made.’’.
(b) COURT CASES.—Section 2412(d) of title
28, United States Code, is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(5) The Chairman of the Administrative
Conference shall create and maintain online
a searchable database containing the fol-
lowing information with respect to each
award of fees and other expenses under this
section:
‘‘(A) The case name and number.
‘‘(B) The name of the agency involved in
the case.
‘‘(C) The name of each party to whom the
award was made, as such party is identified
in the order or other court document making
the award.
‘‘(D) A description of the claims in the
case.
‘‘(E) The amount of the award.
‘‘(F) The basis for the finding that the po-
sition of the agency concerned was not sub-
stantially justified.
‘‘(6) The online searchable database de-
scribed in paragraph (5) may not reveal any
information the disclosure of which is pro-
hibited by law or court order.
‘‘(7) The head of each agency (including the
Attorney General of the United States) shall
provide to the Chairman of the Administra-
tive Conference of the United States all in-
formation requested by the Chairman to
comply with the requirements of paragraphs
(5) and (6) not later than 60 days after the
date on which the request is made.’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—Section 2412 of
title 28, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (d)(3), by striking ‘‘United
States Code,’’; and
(2) in subsection (e)—
(A) by striking ‘‘of section 2412 of title 28,
United States Code,’’ and inserting ‘‘of this
section’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘of such title’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘of this title’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendments made by
subsections (a) and (b) shall first apply with
respect to awards of fees and other expenses
that are made on or after the date of the en-
actment of this Act.
(2) ONLINE DATABASES.—The online data-
bases required by section 504(e) of title 5,
United States Code, and section 2412(d)(5) of
title 28, United States Code, shall be estab-
lished as soon as practicable after the date of
the enactment of this Act, but in no case
later than 1 year after the date of enactment
of this Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Tennessee (Mr. COHEN) and the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. COLLINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Tennessee.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have
up to 5 legislative days to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on the bill under
consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Tennessee?
There was no objection.
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
752, the Open Book on Equal Access to
Justice Act, a bill House Judiciary
Committee Ranking Member COLLINS
and I have worked on together for sev-
eral years.
The Equal Access to Justice Act was
enacted to allow Americans to recover
attorneys’ fees and costs associated
with lawsuits against the Federal Gov-
ernment. This has enabled ordinary
citizens, such as veterans, seniors,
small business owners, advocates for
clean air and clean water, and any
other type of citizen to fight unfair or
illegal government actions without
fear of court costs.
The law has been a success. In 1995,
however, an important reporting re-
quirement was removed from it, which
made it harder for the public to know
how much money the government has
awarded. Our bill, the Open Book on
Equal Access to Justice Act reinstates
the Equal Access to Justice Act’s
tracking and reporting requirements
with respect to payments awarded so
that American people can have access
to this important information.
It would do this by requiring ACUS,
an acronym for the Administrative
Conference of the United States, a
highly respected, nonpartisan agency,
to prepare an annual report for Con-
gress on the fees and costs awarded in
these cases. The reports would also in-
clude the number and nature of the
claims involved.
In summary, H.R. 752 would promote
greater transparency and account-
ability. Accordingly, I urge my col-
leagues to join me and Mr. COLLINS in
voting for this measure today, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, there are so many times
on this floor that we come down here
and we talk about things that divide
us, but I have to say, Mr. COHEN and I,
we have had so many things that some-
times we don’t see eye to eye on, but
we are still friends, and this is one of
those times where we have been pur-
suing this one for a long time. This is
a bill that I have been very privileged
to have him be a part of and sponsor.
b 1400
H.R. 752, the Open Book on Equal Ac-
cess to Justice Act, is to provide trans-
parency and oversight for taxpayer dol-
lars awarded under the Equal Access to
Justice Act.
Of all the folks who have been co-
sponsors on this, Mr. COHEN has stood
out among all. He has been such a
great supporter of this, and it is good
to have him with us managing this bill.
I also thank Representatives CHENEY
and PETERSON for being original co-
sponsors and their continued leader-
ship on this.
Also, Mr. Speaker, because this is, I
believe, something we should have
passed last Congress, we went ahead
and worked it, and, today, we are also
excited to have identical legislation
that has been introduced in the Senate
by Senators BARRASSO and COONS.
This bill has previously passed the
House unanimously. It is common
sense and restores needed congres-
sional and public oversight.
Congress originally passed the Equal
Access to Justice Act in 1980 to remove
a barrier to justice for those with lim-
ited access to the resources it takes to
sue the Federal Government and to re-
cover attorney’s fees and costs that go
along with such suits. The law was
meant to give citizens the ability to
challenge or defend against unreason-
able government actions where they
might otherwise be deterred or unable
to do so because of large legal ex-
penses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.036 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1414 February 7, 2019
The Equal Access to Justice Act was
intended for true David and Goliath
scenarios where a wronged citizen is
facing the Federal Government’s vast
resources. This law has been on the
books for decades and remains impor-
tant. However, since 1995, tracking and
reporting requirements on payments
under the law have been halted. With-
out a comprehensive Federal report on
the total amount of fees under the law,
we have fallen behind in oversight re-
sponsibilities and can’t tell, in a mean-
ingful way, if that law is still working
as intended.
In fact, a Government Accountability
Office report indicated that, without
any direction to track payments, most
agencies simply do not do it. We have
only anecdotal evidence about how
much we are spending on attorney’s
fees, the agencies paying out the fees,
and what types of claims are being cov-
ered.
The Open Book on Equal Access to
Justice Act reinstates needed trans-
parency and accountability require-
ments to ensure that the Equal Access
to Justice Act is helping individuals,
retirees, veterans, and small businesses
as intended. It requires the Adminis-
trative Conference of the United States
to develop an online searchable data-
base that includes information on the
number, nature, and amount of the
awards; claims involved in the con-
troversy; and other relevant informa-
tion. Agencies would be required to
provide information requested by
ACUS for the development and mainte-
nance of the database. Importantly,
ACUS would be required to withhold
information from the database if dis-
closure is prohibited by law or court
order.
As made clear in report language in
previous years, I continue to expect
ACUS to take appropriate measures to
ensure that individual specific
healthcare information, such as an in-
dividual’s diagnoses and treatments, is
not contained in the database. This
legislation ensures appropriate protec-
tions are in place while facilitating
critical public and congressional over-
sight.
The Open Book on Equal Access to
Justice Act places agency expenditures
under EAJA in view of a watchful pub-
lic eye and restores scrutiny over tax-
payer dollars.
Where the Federal Government is
spending money, Congress needs to ex-
ercise oversight and ensure it is being
done in accordance with the law and
congressional intent.
Tracking and reporting requirements
preserve the integrity of the Equal Ac-
cess to Justice Act. They will enable
Congress to evaluate the law to make
sure it is working effectively for the
people it is intended to help. We owe it
to small businesses, Social Security
claimants, veterans, and similarly situ-
ated individuals who rely on the law,
faced with the daunting task of taking
on the Federal Government, to make
sure that it is working.
I look forward to continuing bipar-
tisan efforts to move this bill forward
and to the Open Book on Equal Justice
Act ultimately becoming law. The con-
sensus behind this legislation reflects
the need to address this issue and
Americans’ right to know how their
taxpayer dollars are being spent. It is
time we gave them that transparency.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, today, I
recognize a lady who served in this
Congress named Cynthia Lummis. She
was the original cosponsor I had on
this bill and worked hard on it and was
a very fine Representative.
We also worked with a man named
Lowell Baier. Mr. Baier wrote a book
called ‘‘Inside the Equal Access to Jus-
tice Act: Environmental Litigation and
the Crippling Battle over America’s
Lands, Endangered Species, and Crit-
ical Habitats.’’ He was a great sup-
porter of this concept, and I want to
recognize his efforts as well as Mrs.
Lummis’.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield such time as she may con-
sume to the gentlewoman from Wyo-
ming (Ms. CHENEY), who is a cosponsor
and our Conference chair. She has been
a great supporter of this.
I would also be remiss, Mr. Speaker,
to not say that it was her predecessor
who introduced me to this issue, Mrs.
Lummis, who always seems to be
around, and she keeps this agenda in
focus as well. I want to say thank you
to her for her previous work.
Ms. CHENEY. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague and Republican leader of
the Steering Committee, Mr. COLLINS,
as well as my colleague, Mr. COHEN
from Tennessee, for their work on this
important issue. I thank Chairman
NADLER, of course, for helping to bring
this important bill to the floor. Of
course, I echo my colleagues’ fond
words for my predecessor, Congress-
woman Lummis, and all the work she
did over the years on this issue and so
many others for our great State. I
thank them the opportunity to speak
on this important bill.
Mr. Speaker, the Equal Access to
Justice Act was enacted in 1980 for
good reason: to ensure that private
citizens could obtain legal representa-
tion in cases against the Federal Gov-
ernment, in cases where it was de-
served.
While the Equal Access to Justice
Act serves that important purpose in
holding these Federal agencies ac-
countable, in the past 20 years, we have
seen this process abused too often by
outside organizations. This program
was intended to help everyday citizens
seek justice, but those seeking profits
have also had access to this program.
They have effectively turned the Equal
Access to Justice Act into their own
personal wallet through frivolous law-
suits. This program was never intended
to be a slush fund for serial litigators.
Making matters worse, the perver-
sion of the Equal Access to Justice Act
is funded by American taxpayers.
Americans are footing the legal and at-
torney’s fees of groups that are imped-
ing critical activities, especially on
Federal lands in my home State of Wy-
oming and in others.
It is clear that the Equal Access to
Justice Act needs modernizing, and
H.R. 752 is the first step toward that
goal. This legislation still affords citi-
zens, organizations, and other affected
parties the same right to financial re-
wards in a prevailing lawsuit, but it fi-
nally would establish transparency and
accountability for these funds.
Under H.R. 752, an online database
detailing funds awarded to prevailing
parties, the agency, and the party in-
volved in the case, and a description of
these claims, will be made available to
the American people. This provides ac-
countability and transparency not only
to outside organizations, but to our
Federal agencies and, most impor-
tantly, to the American people. The
American people have a right to know
how their hard-earned money is spent,
and this legislation takes a crucial step
toward doing just that.
I am pleased, Mr. Speaker, to support
this important legislation, and I urge
my colleagues to support it as well.
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself the balance of my
time.
Mr. Speaker, this is definitely an
area that I looked forward to. It should
have happened last Congress, for my
good friend from Tennessee. It is going
to happen, I believe, in this Congress.
We have both the House and the Sen-
ate, and I think this is definitely some-
thing the administration will support.
I look forward to this becoming law.
This is simply a good bill that opens
up transparency and allows us to make
better decisions in Congress. That is
what we are supposed to be about.
Again, I thank my friend from Ten-
nessee for being a cosponsor on this
and for being a part of that.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. COHEN. Mr. Speaker, in closing,
again, I would like to thank all the
other people, all the members of the
Academy and the producers and direc-
tors, but also Ranking Member COLLINS
for his continued partnership on this
bill, which passed the House last Con-
gress and almost passed the Senate. We
always have to remember the enemy is
not the Republicans; it is the Senate.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Representatives
COLLIN PETERSON and LIZ CHENEY for
their efforts as well. I urge my col-
leagues to pass this bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 752 ‘‘Open Book Equal Ac-
cess to Justice Act’’ which will amend titles 5
and 28, United States Code, to require the
maintenance of databases on awards of fees
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.038 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1415
February 7, 2019
and other expenses to prevailing parties in
certain administrative proceedings and court
cases to which the United States is a party,
and for other purposes.
In 1980, Congress passed the Equal Access
to Justice Act (EAJA) as a means to help indi-
viduals, retirees, veterans, and small busi-
nesses recover attorney’s fees and costs as-
sociated with suing the federal government.
Congress intended the EAJA to remove a
barrier to justice for those with limited access
to the resources it takes to sue the federal
government.
Payments of EAJA attorney’s fees come
from the budget of the agency who action
gave rise to the claim.
While the original EAJA legislation included
a requirement to track payments and report to
Congress annually, Congress and the agen-
cies halted tracking and reporting of payments
made through EAJA in 1995.
Without any direction to track payments,
most agencies simply do not do it and Con-
gress and taxpayers are unable to exercise
oversight over these funds.
H.R. 752 reinstates the tracking and report-
ing requirements of the original EAJA legisla-
tion by requiring the Administrative Con-
ference of the United States (ACUS) to de-
velop an online, searchable database to facili-
tate public and Congressional oversight over
the program.
This will allow public access to information
on the amount of attorney’s fees being paid
under EAJA, to whom the taxpayers’ money is
being paid, and from which agencies.
The Open Book on Equal Access to Justice
Act helps ensure that agencies are operating
under the public eye and that taxpayer dollars
are being spent effectively and properly.
Allowing plaintiffs to recoup legal costs
when they sue the federal government for rep-
arations they deserve is only fair.
Many Americans do not have the resources
to take on our sprawling bureaucracy, but
EAJA gave them the power to do that by re-
moving a barrier to justice for those with lim-
ited access to resources.
Since the original reporting requirements
were halted by Congress, there is no informa-
tion on payments made under the law.
Tracking and reporting payments will help
preserve the integrity of this law and help
Congress make sure it is working effectively
for the people it was intended to help.
I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for
H.R. 752.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr.
COHEN) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 752.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Ordering the previous question on
House Resolution 105;
Adoption of House Resolution 105, if
ordered;
Motion to suspend the rules and pass
H.R. 450; and
Motion to suspend the rules and pass
H.R. 507.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 840, VETERANS’ ACCESS
TO CHILD CARE ACT; PROVIDING
FOR ADOPTION OF H. RES. 86,
PROVIDING AMOUNTS FOR THE
EXPENSES OF THE SELECT COM-
MITTEE ON THE CLIMATE CRISIS
AND THE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON THE MODERNIZATION OF
CONGRESS; AND PROVIDING FOR
CONSIDERATION OF MOTIONS TO
SUSPEND THE RULES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The un-
finished business is the vote on order-
ing the previous question on the reso-
lution (H. Res. 105) providing for con-
sideration of the bill (H.R. 840) to
amend title 38, United States Code, to
direct the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to provide child care assistance to
veterans receiving certain medical
services provided by the Department of
Veterans Affairs; providing for the
adoption of the resolution (H. Res. 86)
providing amounts for the expenses of
the Select Committee on the Climate
Crisis and the Select Committee on the
Modernization of Congress; and pro-
viding for consideration of motions to
suspend the rules, on which the yeas
and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 227, nays
189, not voting 16, as follows:
[Roll No. 68]
YEAS—227
Adams
Aguilar
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Yarmuth
NAYS—189
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McClintock
McKinley
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.016 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1416 February 7, 2019
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—16
Allred
Cleaver
Cummings
Dingell
Hastings
Jones
LaMalfa
Loudermilk
McCarthy
McCaul
McHenry
Meadows
Nadler
Smith (NJ)
Steube
Wilson (FL)
b 1434
Messrs. REED, AMASH, NUNES,
HUNTER, and Ms. FOXX of North
Carolina changed their vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, on that I de-
mand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 225, nays
193, not voting 14, as follows:
[Roll No. 69]
YEAS—225
Adams
Aguilar
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Yarmuth
NAYS—193
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—14
Allred
Cleaver
Cummings
Dingell
Grijalva
Hastings
Jones
LaMalfa
McCarthy
Meadows
Nadler
Sires
Steube
Wilson (FL)
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1444
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PREVENTING CRIMES AGAINST
VETERANS ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 450) to amend title 18, United
States Code, to provide an additional
tool to prevent certain frauds against
veterans, and for other purposes, as
amended, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
BASS) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 417, nays 0,
not voting 15, as follows:
[Roll No. 70]
YEAS—417
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.017 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1417
February 7, 2019
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—15
Allred
Bishop (UT)
Cleaver
Cummings
Dingell
Hastings
Jones
LaMalfa
McCarthy
Meadows
Nadler
Rutherford
Sires
Steube
Wilson (FL)
b 1451
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I was absent
for the vote on H.R. 450—Preventing Crimes
Against Veterans Act. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 70.
f
PUT TRAFFICKING VICTIMS FIRST
ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 507) to direct the Attorney
General to study issues relating to
human trafficking, and for other pur-
poses, on which the yeas and nays were
ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
BASS) that the House suspend the rules
and pass the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 414, nays 1,
not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 71]
YEAS—414
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.019 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1418 February 7, 2019
NAYS—1
Amash
NOT VOTING—17
Allred
Cleaver
Cummings
Davis (CA)
Dingell
Hastings
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (SD)
Jones
LaMalfa
Marchant
McCarthy
Meadows
Nadler
Sires
Steube
Wilson (FL)
b 1459
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. ALLRED. Mr. Speaker, I am back home
in Dallas, Texas, on paternity leave with my
family, I submit the following vote explanation.
Had I been present, I would have voted
‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 68, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No.
69, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 70, and ‘‘yea’’ on roll-
call No. 71.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. STEUBE. Mr. Speaker, I missed this
vote series due to a death in the family. Had
I been present, I would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on
rollcall No. 68, ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 69, ‘‘yea’’
on rollcall No. 70, and ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 71.
f
PROVIDING AMOUNTS FOR THE
EXPENSES OF THE SELECT COM-
MITTEE ON THE CLIMATE CRISIS
AND THE SELECT COMMITTEE
ON THE MODERNIZATION OF
CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 105, House
Resolution 86 is considered as adopted.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 86
Resolved,
SECTION 1. AMOUNTS FOR EXPENSES OF SELECT
COMMITTEES.
(a) SELECT COMMITTEE ON THE CLIMATE CRI-
SIS.—
(1) PAYMENT OF EXPENSES.—There shall be
paid out of the applicable accounts of the
House of Representatives not more than
$70,000 for the expenses of the Select Com-
mittee on the Climate Crisis established
under section 104(f) of House Resolution 6, as
agreed to January 9, 2019, to be available
during the period beginning at noon on Janu-
ary 1, 2019, and ending on March 31, 2019.
(2) VOUCHERS.—Payments under this sub-
section shall be made on vouchers authorized
by the Select Committee on the Climate Cri-
sis, signed by the chair of the Select Com-
mittee, and approved in the manner directed
by the Committee on House Administration.
(b) SELECT COMMITTEE ON THE MODERNIZA-
TION OF CONGRESS.—
(1) PAYMENT OF EXPENSES.—There shall be
paid out of the applicable accounts of the
House of Representatives not more than
$50,000 for the expenses of the Select Com-
mittee on the Modernization of Congress es-
tablished under title II of House Resolution
6, as agreed to January 9, 2019, to be avail-
able during the period beginning at noon on
January 1, 2019, and ending on March 31, 2019.
(2) VOUCHERS.—Payments under this sub-
section shall be made on vouchers authorized
by the Select Committee on the Moderniza-
tion of Congress, signed by the chair of the
Select Committee, and approved in the man-
ner directed by the Committee on House Ad-
ministration.
(c) REGULATIONS.—Amounts made avail-
able under this resolution shall be expended
in accordance with regulations prescribed by
the Committee on House Administration.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Survivors Protection
Act, and I ask for its immediate con-
sideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRIES
Mr. SCALISE. A parliamentary in-
quiry, Mr. Speaker.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. SCALISE. I understand the
guidelines the Chair decided, Mr.
Speaker, but seeing no objection from
either side of the House, would that
constitute clearance and allow the
Chair to entertain my motion under
the rules of the House?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. A unani-
mous-consent request for the consider-
ation of that measure would have to re-
ceive clearance by the majority and
the minority floor and committee lead-
erships.
The Chair is unaware of such clear-
ance; therefore, the Chair cannot en-
tertain that request at this time.
Mr. SCALISE. Further parliamen-
tary inquiry, Mr. Speaker.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. SCALISE. Again, seeing no ob-
jection on either side of the aisle, Mr.
Speaker, can the Chair advise what is
required pursuant to section 956 of the
House rules to allow my motion to be
considered?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will have to be made aware of
clearance.
Mr. SCALISE. So, Mr. Speaker, is
there any guidance under section 956 of
the House rules to have that motion be
in order?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Again,
the Chair has not been made aware of
the requisite clearance.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, can the
ruling of the Chair be challenged?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has sought unanimous consent.
The Chair has not ruled.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I ask the
Chair to rule on the motion of unani-
mous consent.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman was not recognized for his
unanimous consent request. Under the
guidelines, the request cannot be enter-
tained.
Mr. SCALISE. So, Mr. Speaker, is
there a motion that can be made under
the rules that have been cited to allow
for the immediate consideration of
H.R. 962?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair does not issue advisory opinions.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, if this
unanimous consent request can’t be en-
tertained, I would urge the Speaker
and the majority leader to schedule the
born-alive bill immediately so we can
stand up and protect the sanctity of
human life, and I would ask all others
to join in in that request.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has not been recognized for de-
bate.
f
VETERANS’ ACCESS TO CHILD
CARE ACT
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R. 840.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 105 and Rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 840.
The Chair appoints the gentlewoman
from the Virgin Islands (Ms. PLASKETT)
to preside over the Committee of the
Whole.
b 1507
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 840) to
amend title 38, United States Code, to
direct the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to provide child care assistance to
veterans receiving certain medical
services provided by the Department of
Veterans Affairs, with Ms. PLASKETT in
the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
bill is considered read the first time.
General debate shall not exceed 1
hour equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
The gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) and the gentleman from Ten-
nessee (Mr. DAVID P. ROE) each will
control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 840, the Veterans’ Access to
Child Care Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.021 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1419
February 7, 2019
We ask our servicemembers to risk
their lives in service of our country,
and in return, we promise to provide
healthcare and benefits so they can
live happy, healthy, and successful
lives, and provide for their families.
As our veteran population becomes
increasingly diverse, as the number of
LGBTQ and minority and women vet-
erans goes up, we must ensure every
veteran has the opportunity to access
their healthcare and benefits. Address-
ing underserved veterans is a pillar of
my VA 2030 vision, which will drive our
work on the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs in the 116th Congress.
I proudly chose Congresswoman
BROWNLEY’s Veterans’ Access to Child
Care Act as the very first bill our com-
mittee would bring to the House floor
because it addresses a sometimes over-
looked group of veterans: veterans who
are parents and caregivers to young
children.
Providing cost-free, safe, and conven-
ient healthcare so that veterans can
see a mental health provider for treat-
ment of post-traumatic stress, military
sexual trauma, cancer resulting from
exposure to Agent Orange, spinal cord
injury, or even treatment for drug or
substance abuse is the least we can do
to make their lives easier so they, in
turn, can be loving parents and care-
givers to the children who depend on
them.
Under my leadership of the most di-
verse and talented Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs in the history of this
Chamber, underserved veterans, espe-
cially women veterans, minorities,
LGBTQ veterans, and veterans from
our tribal communities, homeless vet-
erans, and even deported veterans will
be a top priority.
We will work together to shatter the
barriers and structural challenges un-
derserved veterans face in this country
they selflessly served by first attending
to their most basic and essential needs:
healthcare.
Ms. BROWNLEY, the chair of the Vet-
erans’ Affairs Subcommittee on Health
and the head of the Task Force on
Women Veterans, has been a tireless
advocate for veterans since being elect-
ed to Congress. Her bill makes an al-
ready successful and popular pilot pro-
gram permanent, a program that helps
mothers, fathers, grandparents, and
caregivers who need their VA
healthcare, but struggle to find safe
and convenient childcare or struggle to
afford the high cost of childcare for
their children.
A veteran should never be made to
choose between caring for their chil-
dren and their health. This bill will
make sure veterans will no longer have
to make this terrible choice.
The Caregivers and Veterans Omni-
bus Health Services Act first author-
ized the pilot program we are making
permanent today. Under the pilot, VA
could provide childcare services to eli-
gible veterans seeking mental
healthcare, intensive mental
healthcare services, and other inten-
sive healthcare services that require
veterans to travel to VA hospitals,
clinics, or vet centers for regular or
frequent appointments.
The first childcare program started
at the VA Medical Center in Buffalo,
New York, in October of 2011. Within 2
years, VA expanded the program to
Northport, New York, and American
Lake, Washington, and later brought
childcare to Dallas, Texas.
The 2-year pilot program was meant
to end in September 2013, but Congress
has reauthorized the program for the
past 6 years due to its success and pop-
ularity.
Since the beginning, over 10,000 chil-
dren have used the childcare pilot pro-
gram, and as more veterans and their
children use the program, the cost de-
creased.
Last Congress, the legislation au-
thorizing this program passed unani-
mously, and now we will have an op-
portunity to improve this already
great bill with amendments we will be
considering today and tomorrow. I am
optimistic this bill will pass with the
same bipartisan, unanimous support.
So I am very excited to work with
Dr. ROE, the ranking member of our
committee, on this bill and on future
bipartisan legislation.
Before I give him a chance to share
his thoughts on this bill, I would like
to share one of the anecdotes we re-
ceived from a social worker who helps
homeless veterans under the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment-Veterans Affairs Supportive
Housing Program, otherwise known as
the HUD-VASH program: ‘‘Just this
week a female veteran with a 3-year-
old son discussed childcare with me.
She was so relieved it was still open,
because she scheduled a gynecological
appointment that she was going to can-
cel because she had no one to care for
her son.
‘‘This is a veteran who came to us
homeless with a newborn and
unmanaged diabetes. She is now dili-
gently following her medical regimen
and consistently makes appointments.
She is stably housed in the community,
enjoying being a mother, attending col-
lege, and working part-time.
‘‘I do not think we would have been
able to stabilize her life without the
support of childcare to allow her to get
to her appointments and receive the
treatment, medication, recommenda-
tions, and care that have helped her
succeed.’’
b 1515
Now, as chairman of this committee,
I look forward to sharing more stories
of veterans throughout this country
whose lives have been improved be-
cause of access to VA healthcare.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Chair, I yield myself as much
time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise today in support
of H.R. 840, the Veterans’ Access to
Child Care Act, and I acknowledge the
gentlewoman from California (Ms.
BROWNLEY), the chairwoman and spon-
sor of this legislation, for her hard
work and leadership on this issue.
As a father of three and a grand-
father of three more, I know firsthand
how important affordable, accessible,
and safe childcare is and how difficult
it can be for busy parents to find.
I never want a veteran, particularly
one struggling with a mental health
condition that requires regular ongoing
treatment to manage, to be unable to
get the care they need because of a
lack of childcare.
The Veterans’ Access to Child Care
Act would prevent that by authorizing
the Department of Veterans Affairs to
provide childcare assistance to vet-
erans who are receiving mental health
or certain other intensive healthcare
services.
Since 2011, VA has been providing
childcare assistance to eligible vet-
erans in select sites through a pilot
program that has been extended by
Congress on a consistent basis. This
bill would permanently authorize that
program and expand it across the VA
healthcare system.
I was proud to support this bill last
Congress as it passed the House with
unanimous bipartisan support, and I
am proud to support it today. However,
my support is not without some res-
ervations.
When we passed this bill last Con-
gress, it had been reported out of the
committee fully offset with a manda-
tory pay-for that, again, passed the
House with unanimous bipartisan sup-
port.
An amendment offered by Congress-
man GUS BILIRAKIS of Florida that
would use the same pay-for to offset
the cost of this bill, which has in-
creased from $96 million 2 years ago to
an estimated $120 million today, was
ruled not in order by the Rules Com-
mittee yesterday. That is a shame.
As chairman of the Veterans’ Affairs
Committee in the previous Congress, I
entertained frequent objections to
other good policies from my friends on
the other side of the aisle due to con-
cerns about how improvements to the
VA healthcare system would be ac-
counted for under discretionary caps.
It appears those concerns have sud-
denly disappeared.
Yesterday afternoon, Chairman
TAKANO noted that no offset was pro-
vided for this bill because the House
Democrats have no requirement for
discretionary costs to be offset, and it
would be up to the appropriators to
provide the funding VA needs to imple-
ment this program.
The Democrats’ lack of a rule pro-
moting fiscal discipline does not mean
that we should not aspire to be good
stewards of taxpayer money. The
American taxpayer should expect and
certainly deserve more from their
elected officials than literally passing
of the buck.
I also have reservations about this
bill because it failed to move through
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.050 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1420 February 7, 2019
regular order, which it most certainly
would have benefited from.
I commend my colleagues from both
sides of the aisle for offering a number
of thoughtful amendments to this leg-
islation. I look forward to considering
a number of those later today.
That said, we do not know what the
Department thinks of them. We do not
know what veterans service organiza-
tions think of them. We are blind to
the second and third order implications
they will undoubtedly have on this pro-
gram and its cost. What is more, not
all of the thoughtful amendments that
were offered to this bill were ruled in
order or will be up for debate.
I offered an amendment that would
have provided the Asset and Infrastruc-
ture Review Commission greater flexi-
bility by removing a prohibition
against the Commission meeting in
any calendar year except 2022 and 2023.
The AIR Commission is an objective,
data-driven, transparent process that
will consider VA’s real property port-
folio as a whole and determine how it
will be realigned and brought into the
21st century to continue providing the
high-quality care that our veterans re-
quire in future years.
The bill we are considering today
could result in the repurposing of exist-
ing space or creation of new space to be
used to provide childcare services. De-
cisions about how limited VA medical
facility space will be used must not be
made in a vacuum, especially when
Congress has already established a
process for how those decisions should
be made. I fail to see how my amend-
ment doesn’t apply here, and it is a
shame that we didn’t have an oppor-
tunity to have a robust debate on that
in committee or on the floor.
Another good government amend-
ment that was, unfortunately, ruled
out of order was offered by Congress-
man JODEY ARRINGTON of Texas. Con-
gressman ARRINGTON’s amendment
would have prohibited any employee
who is hired by VA to provide childcare
pursuant to this bill from spending
their time on taxpayer-funded union
activities rather than performing the
childcare duties they were hired to per-
form.
I agree that government employees
should be doing the job for which they
are hired and receive a taxpayer-funded
paycheck to do, and do nothing else.
Again, it is a shame we won’t be able
to discuss or debate that amendment.
Despite these issues, I do find the un-
derlying bill to be a worthy one, and I
will be supporting it today.
I thank Congresswoman BROWNLEY,
again, and Chairman TAKANO for bring-
ing this bill to the floor today, and I
look forward to working with them in
the next 2 years on these and other im-
portant issues of our Nation’s veterans.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I thank the gentleman
for his support of the bill. I would say,
with regard to the amendments, we
would have entertained more amend-
ments. I would have been happy to do
so had they been germane, and we
would have been glad to entertain
them, but they were not.
Before I yield to Ms. BROWNLEY, the
sponsor of this legislation, I include in
the RECORD a letter of support from the
Easterseals.
EASTERSEALS,
February 6, 2019.
Hon. JULIA BROWNLEY,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE BROWNLEY:
Easterseals is pleased to again support your
Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act legisla-
tion to increase the availability of child care
for veterans who are receiving services or
treatment at a U.S. Department of Veterans
Affairs (VA) medical center.
Easterseals is a national network of more
than 70 nonprofit organizations who deliver
local services to help children and adults
with disabilities, veterans, older adults and
others to live independently and to fully par-
ticipate in their communities. Easterseals is
a leading provider of inclusive child care and
early education and development in the
United States, providing thousands of young
children with and without disabilities with
high-quality child care.
Easterseals understands how important ac-
cess to high-quality child care is to allow
parents, including veterans, to go to work
and to meet their own health care needs.
That is why we supported the establishment
of a pilot program at the VA to provide child
care at select VA medical centers around the
country that qualified veterans could use
while at a medical appointment or while re-
ceiving medical services. The program has
been particularly helpful for female vet-
erans, nearly 30 percent of whom have chil-
dren living at home. A recent VA report
found that 42 percent of female veterans who
use the VA reported that finding child care
to attend a medical appointment was hard or
very hard. When asked about solutions, more
than three of out five female veterans sur-
veyed said on-site childcare would be ‘‘very
helpful.’’
The Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act
would expand and make permanent the VA
Child Care Pilot Program. The legislation
would make available a stipend, to cover the
full cost of child care provided by a licensed,
on-site or private child care center while the
veteran receives services, including travel
time back and forth to the facility. The leg-
islation is a common-sense next step toward
improving access to VA health care to vet-
erans.
Easterseals is pleased to support the Vet-
erans’ Access to Child Care Act. In addition,
Easterseals stands ready to partner with the
VA to provide child care assistance while
they attend to their well-being and medical
care. Thank you for your leadership on this
important issue.
Sincerely,
MAYNARD FRIESZ,
Assistant Vice President,
Government Relations, Easterseals.
Mr. TAKANO. This bill is also sup-
ported by the American Legion, the
Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Vietnam
Veterans of America, and other vet-
erans service organizations. So I am
pleased to say that we have heard the
VSOs weigh in on Ms. BROWNLEY’s leg-
islation.
Madam Chair, I yield 5 minutes to
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
BROWNLEY), the author of the bill.
Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
Madam Chair, I thank the chairman for
yielding time and for bringing my bill,
the Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act,
to the floor for consideration; and I
thank Ranking Member ROE for his
support of the bill.
As a member of the House Veterans’
Affairs Committee, I believe that it is
critical that veterans have the support
they need to ensure they are able to ac-
cess needed healthcare services at the
VA.
For many veterans, the lack of ac-
cess to childcare is a barrier to receiv-
ing healthcare, especially mental
healthcare and intensive care services.
Research has shown that women vet-
erans more commonly face this barrier,
as they are more often responsible for
caring for young children. That said,
we know that the problem is not
unique to women veterans, as male vet-
erans have also reported lack of avail-
able childcare as a barrier to making
their healthcare appointments as well.
In 2010, Congress passed legislation
directing the VA to start a pilot pro-
gram to provide free childcare at a
small number of VA medical centers
and clinics throughout the country.
Since then, this pilot program has been
successfully implemented and hugely
popular at several locations across the
country.
In 2015, the VA reported that the
pilot program had provided childcare
assistance to more than 10,000 children,
and since then, many more veterans
have benefited.
The pilot program has been popular
among the veteran community, and
there has been strong support for its
continuation from veterans service or-
ganizations. That is because we all be-
lieve that veterans should not be forced
to choose between getting necessary
healthcare and caring for a child.
My bill, which we are debating today,
would make the VA childcare pilot pro-
gram permanent and expand the pro-
gram to VA facilities all across the Na-
tion.
Like the original pilot program, my
bill is narrowly tailored for veterans
who are full-time caretakers of chil-
dren and who need intensive medical
care or mental health treatments and
for those veterans who might otherwise
miss their appointments because of
lack of available short-term childcare
during their appointments.
For instance, a veteran who is under-
going cancer treatment cannot afford
to miss these critical and intense med-
ical appointments, and they need a safe
place to leave their young child while
they receive chemotherapy or radi-
ation therapy.
Likewise, veterans who have regular
mental health appointments would
need a place to leave their young chil-
dren, because it would be inappropriate
for young children to be present for
tough conversations with a therapist
about military sexual trauma or other
battlefield trauma.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.052 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1421
February 7, 2019
Like the pilot program, my bill also
gives VA flexible authority to deter-
mine how to provide childcare assist-
ance during veterans’ medical appoint-
ments. Options include:
Providing the benefit through sti-
pend payments directly to veterans to
pay for their childcare expenses;
Direct provision of childcare at VA
facilities;
Direct payment to childcare pro-
viders;
Collaboration with other Federal de-
partments and agencies; or
Other appropriate forms of assistance
that the Secretary determines are ap-
propriate.
Passage of this legislation will ben-
efit veterans of all areas who are pri-
mary caretakers. In fact, many of the
caretakers who have used the pilot pro-
gram have been women and older vet-
erans, including grandparents who take
care of a child during the day and
would otherwise be unable to make
their appointments.
This bill will guarantee these vet-
erans receive the healthcare they need,
while ensuring a safe, reliable, and
cost-free option for childcare during
those appointments.
For our colleagues who are new to
this body, I would note that similar
legislation passed the House in the
115th Congress by voice vote. I urge my
colleagues to again support this legis-
lation.
I especially want to thank my col-
league Mr. HIGGINS from New York,
who has been a tireless advocate for ex-
panding and making permanent the
childcare pilot program. His partner-
ship has been invaluable in moving our
bill forward.
I also want to thank Senator PATTY
MURRAY from Washington, who has in-
troduced similar legislation in the Sen-
ate.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Chair, I have no further speak-
ers. I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. HIGGINS).
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam
Chair, I rise in strong support on pas-
sage of H.R. 840, the Veterans’ Access
to Child Care Act, to provide childcare
assistance to our military families.
Nearly a decade ago, the Veterans
Administration survey found that over
1 in 10 veterans have had to cancel
their VA medical appointments due to
the lack of childcare. In response, Con-
gress created the VA childcare pilot
program. The first in the Nation
opened in my hometown of Buffalo,
New York.
The program has been a tremendous
success. Since its inception, it has
served countless military families.
Last year, more than 1,000 children vis-
ited the Kids Korner, located at the
Buffalo VA Center, while their parents
received much-needed care.
America’s veterans placed their lives
on the front lines for our freedoms.
Many veterans returned to their fami-
lies from combat with injuries and
post-traumatic stress disorder that re-
quires regular treatment at their VA.
Madam Chair, we need to remove bar-
riers to care and give our veterans cer-
tainty. By passing this legislation,
Congress will make childcare available
to veterans who need it, while being
cost effective in improving health out-
comes.
In closing, I thank Congresswoman
BROWNLEY for her tireless work on be-
half of our Nation’s veterans, and I
strongly urge my colleagues to vote on
passage of this important legislation.
b 1530
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
We have the data to show how access
to healthcare services improves and
saves lives, but I think it is important
that we also hear from the veterans
and the providers whose lives have
been improved by this program.
I would like to share another story
from a childcare staffer in Buffalo, New
York.
‘‘Buffalo also has a World War II vet-
eran, now 97 years old, who cares for
his great-granddaughter. He heard of
the service, stopped in to see the facil-
ity and ask questions to verify he felt
‘safe’ in leaving her in their care. As
primary caretaker for this child, he is
so pleased to be able to attend his ap-
pointments at his ‘elderly age’ and
keep his family close.’’
Let me also add, I want to address
the reservation, although the ranking
member has stated his general support
for the bill, but this reservation about
the legislation, H.R. 840, lacking a pay-
for that was included in last session’s
legislation, and the pay-for that they
said was necessary this time around.
I want to state that H.R. 840 simply
makes permanent a program that we,
as a Congress, have reauthorized six
times since 2013. For none of those six
times was the issue of a pay-for really
germane. In fact, the CBO has never re-
quired that we do it.
The pay-for that the gentleman
keeps speaking of will not pay for this
program. It will simply take money
from veterans and send it to the Treas-
ury, and the VA, still under discre-
tionary funds, will still have to find
the money to pay for it.
Each of the six times we authorized
this program, not once did my col-
leagues insist on a pay-for. Only when
we are introducing legislation to make
it a permanent program does this sud-
denly pop up as a concern.
In reality, even if we included the
pay-for, the Treasury wouldn’t see the
funds for nearly a decade.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Chair, just to, I guess, retort to
my friend, the chairman, if a program
costs money, the money has to come
from somewhere. We have programs
right now, and the appropriators are
going to have to decide, if this program
costs a lot of money, to take it away
from some other VA program, whereas,
we had the extra revenue to pay for
this program. That is all we are talk-
ing about.
Every single one of us in this Cham-
ber last Congress agreed to pay for it.
So now something has changed. I have
no further speakers on the bill, and I
am prepared to close. I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Chair, just in
response, the pay-for to which the gen-
tleman from Tennessee is referring is
under mandatory spending, which
would not actually pay for the pro-
gram. It would be returned to the
Treasury, and the discretionary funds
simply—there is no pay-for out of the
discretionary funds. It is coming out of
the mandatory side. It is a very illu-
sory device.
So I want to reiterate that each time
this pilot program was reauthorized
under the majority, never was there a
demand on their part that there be a
pay-for.
Madam Chair, I have no further
speakers. I am prepared to close, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Chair, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
First of all, I thank Ms. BROWNLEY
for her leadership on this. I, too, have
been, at one point in my life, a single
parent. I am a veteran, and I certainly
understand the difficulty in child-
bearing and child-rearing from my pre-
vious life as an OB/GYN doctor. I deliv-
ered a lot of babies and took care of a
lot of parents who were single parents,
who struggled to not only make ends
meet, but to get the healthcare they
need.
I think this is a great bill. I think it
should be supported unanimously in
this Congress.
Our American heroes who have
served this country can come get the
care they need. We know that, in this
country, 20 veterans commit suicide
each day, and 14 of them have never
gotten into VA care. We don’t know
what the reason for some of those are,
but, hopefully, it is not a barrier of
childcare.
Madam Chair, I encourage all my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to
support unanimously H.R. 840, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Chair, I wholly
support Ms. BROWNLEY’s bill, H.R. 840. I
urge my colleagues to join me in its
passage, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The CHAIR. All time for general de-
bate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be
considered for amendment under the 5-
minute rule.
It shall be in order to consider as an
original bill for the purpose of amend-
ment under the 5-minute rule the
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute consisting of the text of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:24 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.053 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1422 February 7, 2019
Rules Committee Print 116–3. The
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute shall be considered as read.
The text of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute is as follows:
H.R. 840
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States in Congress as-
sembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Veterans’ Ac-
cess to Child Care Act’’.
SEC. 2. CHILD CARE ASSISTANCE FOR VETERANS
RECEIVING MENTAL HEALTH CARE
AND OTHER INTENSIVE HEALTH
CARE SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subchapter III of chapter 17
of title 38, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following new section:
‘‘§ 1730D. Child care assistance for veterans
receiving mental health care and other in-
tensive health care services
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall pro-
vide child care assistance to an eligible veteran
for any period that the veteran—
‘‘(1) receives covered health care services at a
facility of the Department; and
‘‘(2) is required travel to and return from such
facility for the receipt of such health care serv-
ices.
‘‘(b) CHILD CARE ASSISTANCE.—(1) Child care
assistance provided under this section may in-
clude any of the following:
‘‘(A) A stipend for the payment of child care
offered by a licensed child care center (either di-
rectly or through a voucher program) which
shall be, to the extent practicable, modeled after
the Department of Veterans Affairs Child Care
Subsidy Program established pursuant to section
590 of title 40.
‘‘(B) Direct provision of child care at an on-
site facility of the Department.
‘‘(C) A payment made directly to a private
child care agency.
‘‘(D) A collaboration with a facility or pro-
gram of another Federal department or agency.
‘‘(E) Such other form of assistance as the Sec-
retary considers appropriate.
‘‘(2) In the case that child care assistance
under this section is provided as a stipend under
paragraph (1)(A), such stipend shall cover the
full cost of such child care.
‘‘(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘eligible veteran’ means a vet-
eran who—
‘‘(A) is the primary caretaker of a child or
children; and
‘‘(B) is—
‘‘(i) receiving covered health care services
from the Department; or
‘‘(ii) in need of covered health care services,
and but for lack of child care services, would re-
ceive such covered health care services from the
Department.
‘‘(2) The term ‘covered health care services’
means—
‘‘(A) regular mental health care services;
‘‘(B) intensive mental health care services; or
‘‘(C) such other intensive health care services
that the Secretary determines that provision of
assistance to the veteran to obtain child care
would improve access to such health care serv-
ices by the veteran.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of such chapter is amend-
ed by inserting after the item relating to section
1730C the following new item:
‘‘1730D. Child care assistance for veterans re-
ceiving mental health care and
other intensive health care serv-
ices.’’.
The CHAIR. No amendment to the
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute shall be in order except those
printed in House Report 116–6. Each
such amendment may be offered only
in the order printed in the report, by a
Member designated in the report, shall
be considered as read, shall be debat-
able for the time specified in the report
equally divided and controlled by the
proponent and an opponent, shall not
be subject to amendment, and shall not
be subject to a demand for division of
the question.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. BRINDISI
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 1 printed in
House Report 116–6.
Mr. BRINDISI. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 2, line 2, insert ‘‘, such as a commu-
nity-based outpatient clinic’’ after ‘‘Depart-
ment’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 105, the gentleman from New
York (Mr. BRINDISI) and a Member op-
posed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
Mr. BRINDISI. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I thank the gentle-
woman from California, chairwoman of
the Veterans’ Affairs Committee’s
Health Subcommittee, for introducing
this important bill, as well as the
chairman of the Veterans’ Affairs Com-
mittee, the gentleman from California.
Veterans should never have to miss a
doctor’s appointment or medical treat-
ment because they don’t have access to
affordable childcare. This bill is a com-
monsense solution that removes this
roadblock and ensures our Nation’s
veterans have access to the care they
have earned. I am glad to see the House
take up this issue.
My amendment would clarify that
community-based outpatient clinics
are included under the bill’s definition
of facilities of the Department and en-
sure that veterans who receive their
care from CBOCs are able to access VA
childcare assistance.
Many veterans who live in rural
areas in my district and across the
country do not have a full-service hos-
pital nearby, and they rely on CBOCs
to receive primary and mental
healthcare. It is important to make
clear that this childcare benefit would
include them, no matter how small or
large their VA facility is.
As a new Member of the House Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs, I will con-
tinue working to improve access to VA
healthcare and benefits for veterans,
including veterans living in rural com-
munities.
I urge adoption of my amendment
and again thank the gentlewoman from
California for introducing this bill, and
I urge our colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to pass the underlying legisla-
tion.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Chair, I ask unanimous consent
to claim the time in opposition, though
I am not opposed to it.
The CHAIR. Is there objection to the
request of the gentleman from Ten-
nessee?
There was no objection.
The CHAIR. The gentleman is recog-
nized for 5 minutes.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Chair, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of
Congressman BRINDISI and former
member of the committee Congress-
woman KUSTER’s amendment that
would clarify that veterans receiving
intensive mental health or other quali-
fying treatment from community-
based outpatient clinics, CBOCs, are
also eligible for childcare assistance
from the VA.
CBOCs are an important access point
for many veterans, and healthcare con-
tinues to transition away from inpa-
tient hospitals and will form the basis
of future care. Madam Chair, we have
over 800 of these CBOCs in the country,
so it makes care much more available
to our veterans in their home commu-
nities.
Childcare burdens are no less a factor
for veterans who receive care in a
CBOC than it is for veterans who seek
care in a VA medical center. This
amendment rightly recognizes that
fact and ensures that we don’t inad-
vertently create a disparity for vet-
erans with the same conditions seeking
the same treatments who happen to
use different VA medical facilities.
Madam Chair, I urge all my col-
leagues to join me in supporting this
amendment, and I thank Congressman
BRINDISI and Congresswoman KUSTER
for submitting that, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. BRINDISI. Madam Chair, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. TAKANO), the chair of the
committee.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentleman for yielding, and I sup-
port this amendment because, by clari-
fying that community-based out-
patient clinics are covered under the
bill, we are ensuring that veterans
seeking healthcare services at any VA
facility are able to receive no-cost
childcare.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Chair, I have no further speak-
ers, and I am prepared to close. I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. BRINDISI. Madam Chair, I urge
adoption of the amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Chair, I strongly support this
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from New York (Mr. BRINDISI).
The amendment was agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.055 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1423
February 7, 2019
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MRS.
RADEWAGEN
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 2 printed in
House Report 116–6.
Mrs. RADEWAGEN. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 3, line 4, strike ‘‘The Secretary’’ and
insert ‘‘Subject to subsection (c), the Sec-
retary’’.
Page 3, after line 24, insert the following:
‘‘(c) CONDITION ON RECEIPT OF ASSIST-
ANCE.—(1) The Secretary may not provide
any child care assistance under this section
to an eligible veteran who is receiving cov-
ered health care services from the Depart-
ment unless that eligible veteran actively
participates in such services.
‘‘(2) For purposes of this subsection, the
term ‘actively participates’ means, with re-
spect to covered health care services—
‘‘(A) engaging in transit to and from ap-
pointments for such services;
‘‘(B) attending appointments for such serv-
ices; and
‘‘(C) such other activities as the Secretary
determines appropriate.’’.
Page 3, line 25, strike ‘‘(c)’’ and insert
‘‘(d)’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 105, the gentlewoman from
American Samoa (Mrs. RADEWAGEN)
and a Member opposed each will con-
trol 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from American Samoa.
Mrs. RADEWAGEN. Madam Chair, I
thank Representative BROWNLEY for in-
troducing this legislation to help our
veterans and their families.
Madam Chair, I am offering this
amendment to clarify that the
childcare benefit be made available for
veterans while they are actively par-
ticipating in VA healthcare services,
i.e., when they are traveling to or at-
tending VA appointments, and not at
any other time.
This small clarification will ensure
that the childcare assistance is re-
served for veterans who need it most
and that it does not accidentally re-
place more long-term childcare pro-
grams.
If there is a need for an expanded
childcare program, I believe it should
be created separately, and I would be
happy to work with my colleagues on
that.
Madam Chair, I ask my colleagues to
support this amendment, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Chair, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment, even though I am not opposed to
the amendment.
The CHAIR. Without objection, the
gentleman from California is recog-
nized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Chair, I rise in
support of this amendment to ensure
that our taxpayer dollars are spent ac-
cording to Congress’ intent.
I agree that childcare should only be
provided to veterans when they are
using the childcare to attend their
healthcare appointments.
I thank the gentlewoman for working
with me to make this amendment bi-
partisan and ensure it is clear to the
VA that they cannot revoke this ben-
efit from veterans for missing an ap-
pointment.
The intent of this amendment is not
to be an incentive to access care. It is
simply to make it easier for veterans
to make it to their appointments. It
will be up to us as lawmakers to keep
close oversight over this program and
many others at the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs.
This committee will keep close
watch over the resources we provide
and the programs we authorize at the
VA. We will hold VA leaders account-
able when these programs are not car-
ried out according to congressional in-
tent, or made in a haphazard and unin-
formed manner, or without the purpose
of doing what is best for veterans.
I look forward to working with the
gentlewoman and my colleagues on
this committee to oversee the success-
ful execution of this childcare program
so any eligible veterans who need
childcare can get it.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mrs. RADEWAGEN. Madam Chair, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P. ROE).
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Chair, I thank Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, who is a tireless advocate
for veterans issues, for bringing this
up. She travels, I guess, about as far as
anybody, 24 hours in the air to get
here, so she is a tireless advocate for
our Nation’s heroes, and I thank her
for that.
b 1545
Madam Chair, I rise in strong support
of this amendment that would clarify
that childcare assistance is intended
for veterans while they are attending a
VA appointment or traveling to and
from a VA appointment, but not at any
other time.
This amendment is in line with the
intent of the underlying bill, which is
to provide access to childcare services
so that veterans who would otherwise
be burdened with childcare responsibil-
ities can have easier access to the care
that they need.
By clarifying when VA-provided
childcare assistance will be provided,
this amendment will help ensure that
this program is sustainable, is not un-
intentionally abused, and will help the
greatest number of veterans in need.
Congresswoman RADEWAGEN is a val-
uable member, as I have stated, of the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, and I
thank her for bringing this common-
sense, good-government amendment
forward today.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to join me in supporting it.
Mrs. RADEWAGEN. Madam Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from the
Northern Mariana Islands (Mr.
SABLAN).
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Chair, I rise to
enter into a short colloquy with the
distinguished gentlewoman from Amer-
ican Samoa.
As it is in your district, it is in my
district. Sometimes we have to leave
our home and travel by airplane to a
place where we can receive the medical
attention we need for VA services for
our veterans.
I would like to discover, which I
think I may already know the answer,
but just for the record, a veteran who
lives, say, in Saipan going to Tripler or
Spark M. Matsunaga VA Medical Cen-
ter in Hawaii, that childcare is pro-
vided for that time, including the trav-
el time and the time when the veteran
is receiving medical attention in Ha-
waii and until that veteran returns
home.
Is that an appropriate or correct in-
terpretation of this legislation?
Mrs. RADEWAGEN. Will the gen-
tleman yield?
Mr. SABLAN. I yield to the gentle-
woman from American Samoa.
Mrs. RADEWAGEN. That is a good
question, and that is something we are
going to have to work on.
Mr. SABLAN. It happens many times
that a veteran, again, has to leave. For
example, in my district, they would
have to leave the island of Tinian or
the island of Rota, fly to Saipan even
to have a teleconference, a telemedi-
cine video, with their licensed social
worker, their psychologist, or their
psychiatrist, and it takes time. Flights
are just once a day, for example, or a
flight to Guam requires an overnight
stay.
So for the time that the veteran
leaves home, goes to Guam, for exam-
ple, gets the care and comes back, I
was hoping that that restriction is ap-
propriate.
The CHAIR. The time of the gen-
tleman has expired.
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Chair, I yield
the gentleman an additional 30 sec-
onds.
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Chair, I would
like to engage the gentleman from
Tennessee in a colloquy.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Will the gentleman yield?
Mr. SABLAN. I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Chair, Mr. SABLAN and I have
worked together on these unique issues
about where he is in American Samoa.
That is one of the reasons I wish we
had had regular order. We could have
brought this up, because the gentleman
does have unique circumstances be-
cause of long travel distances, and I
think that is something else we need to
look at in the committee.
I will pledge myself to work with you
on this issue as ranking member.
Mr. SABLAN. I thank the ranking
member of the committee and my dis-
tinguished colleague from American
Samoa.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:00 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.058 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1424 February 7, 2019
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Chair, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Let me say for the record that I be-
lieve, if a veteran is receiving care at a
facility, in this case in Hawaii on trav-
el from Saipan, that the intent of the
legislation would provide that
childcare for the time necessary for
that veteran, and it would be at a VA
facility. It would be childcare at a VA
facility in Hawaii, in this particular
case.
Madam Chair, in closing, I do urge
that my colleagues support the amend-
ment by Mrs. RADEWAGEN, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentle-
woman from American Samoa (Mrs.
RADEWAGEN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. ROSE OF
NEW YORK.
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 3 printed in
House Report 116–6.
Mr. ROSE of New York. Madam
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 3, line 16, strike ‘‘or’’;
Page 3, after line 16, insert the following:
‘‘(C) health care services related to sub-
stance or drug abuse counseling; or’’.
Page 3, line 17, strike ‘‘(C)’’ and insert
‘‘(D)’’.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 105, the gentleman from New
York (Mr. ROSE) and a Member opposed
each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
Mr. ROSE of New York. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise to offer an
amendment that would make clear
that healthcare related to substance
and drug abuse counseling is included
in the covered health services in this
bill.
In addition, Madam Chair, the opioid
epidemic has not only affected my
home district of Staten Island and
south Brooklyn—and to be clear, it
very much has—but this has touched
constituents in district after district,
State after State, and has dispropor-
tionately affected our Nation’s great-
est heroes.
As the fathers, wives, husbands, and
children of the veterans fighting this
disease can attest, combating this ad-
diction is daunting and
heartbreakingly difficult. Imagine how
excruciating it can be when a mother
has to make the choice between receiv-
ing the treatment that she so des-
perately needs and making sure that
her own children are cared for.
That is the choice veteran parents
need to make time and again. It is a
disgrace, and on both sides of the aisle,
we have not done enough.
Make no mistake here, if Congress
does not act, these barriers to treat-
ment will absolutely persist. Whether
you are a Republican or a Democrat, it
is our constituents who are suffering,
and we need to act now. If we do not
address this, this epidemic will con-
tinue to wreak havoc on our districts,
our communities, and our families.
A national survey from the Sub-
stance Abuse and Mental Health Serv-
ices Administration showed that 1 in 15
veterans suffer from a substance abuse
disorder, but for vets who left Active
Duty post-9/11, it was nearly one in
eight. These veterans are twice as like-
ly to die from an accidental overdose
as a nonveteran.
As one of the few post-9/11 combat
veterans who is serving right now in
this body, I have seen the courage of
my fellow former soldiers who seek the
help that they so desperately need. I
have seen that substance abuse coun-
seling at our VA facilities can really
save lives and save families. And I have
seen what happens when my brothers
and sisters who serve do not get the
treatment they need. I am here to tell
my colleagues that I refuse to watch
that happen again.
That is why I offer this amendment
here today, so that the veteran mother
who I mentioned, and the fathers who
are full-time caregivers of their chil-
dren, are no longer trapped in an im-
possible choice. They can receive treat-
ment for PTSD, for cancer, and for
counseling to combat life-threatening
addiction with the peace of mind that
their children are safe and cared for.
That is the very reason Congress di-
rected this pilot program to start in
the first place. When we put party poli-
tics aside and put our constituents
first, this country really succeeds.
We can all agree that this country is
battling an opioid epidemic. Let’s show
our constituents that we are more than
just talk and more than just thanking
vets for their service and are actually
doing something about it. We have to
stop treating addiction as anything but
the disease and the public health crisis
that it actually is. We need to encour-
age, not punish, those who are taking
this fight head on and seeking the care
that they so desperately need and de-
serve.
Madam Chair, I thank Ms. BROWNLEY
for sponsoring this legislation and
commend my colleague, Mr. NORCROSS
from New Jersey, for cosponsoring this
amendment. I applaud my colleagues,
Ms. SHERRILL, Mr. GOLDEN, Ms.
STEFANIK, and Mr. DELGADO, for offer-
ing amendments to strengthen this
bill.
Madam Chair, I urge adoption of this
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Chair, I claim the time in oppo-
sition, although I am not opposed to
the amendment.
The CHAIR. Without objection, the
gentleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Chair, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of
Congressman ROSE’s amendment to in-
clude substance abuse or drug abuse
counseling under the definition of a
covered health service, and I thank
him for his service to our great coun-
try.
Unfortunately, our veterans are not
immune to the scourge of addiction
that has tragically impacted far too
many of our communities for far too
long, particularly in the last few years
of the opioid crisis. Veterans seeking
substance abuse treatment from VA
should certainly have access to
childcare assistance if they require it,
and I am grateful to Congressman ROSE
for sponsoring this amendment to
make sure that they are specifically in-
cluded in this bill. I hope that I am
joined by all my colleagues in sup-
porting this needed amendment today.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. ROSE of New York. Madam
Chair, I yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. TAKANO).
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I support this amendment because
veterans are not immune from the
opioid epidemic. They are not immune
to alcoholism or substance abuse.
When a veteran is also suffering from
post-traumatic stress or other serious
health conditions that may have
caused dependency on a substance, we
should do everything we can to make
sure that veteran can receive care.
I thank the gentleman for offering
this very important amendment, and I
urge all my colleagues to support it.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Madam Chair, I urge support of Con-
gressman ROSE’s amendment, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. ROSE of New York. Madam
Chair, in closing, I urge support of this
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from New York (Mr. ROSE).
The amendment was agreed to.
b 1600
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. BERGMAN
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 4 printed in
House Report 116–6.
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end, add the following section:
SEC. 3. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR
CHILD CARE ASSISTANCE TO CON-
STRUCT NEW CHILD CARE FACILI-
TIES.
The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may not
use funds made available for child care as-
sistance provided under section 1730D of title
38, United States Code, as added by section 2,
to construct any new child care facility.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 105, the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. BERGMAN) and a Member op-
posed each will control 5 minutes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.060 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1425
February 7, 2019
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Michigan.
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Chair, I rise
today to offer an amendment to H.R.
840, the Veterans’ Access to Child Care
Act.
My amendment is simple. It prohibits
VA from constructing new childcare fa-
cilities using funds made available by
this bill. It does not prohibit the VA
from using existing facilities.
While I support the underlying bill
and believe something as simple as
childcare services can greatly improve
veterans’ access to care, I also under-
stand how bloated VA’s infrastructure
portfolio has become.
Just last year, Congress passed the
VA MISSION Act, which included lan-
guage to establish the Asset and Infra-
structure Review Commission. This
commission is designed to assess areas
in which the VA can modernize and re-
align its existing infrastructure port-
folio to save valuable money and
refocus on its core mission of caring for
our veterans.
Madam Chair, offering childcare
services has the potential to make VA
benefits more accessible and conven-
ient for all families. H.R. 840 allows VA
to provide childcare services via pri-
vate centers and through collaboration
with other Federal agencies, thus uti-
lizing already existing facilities.
Until the asset and infrastructure re-
view is complete, it would be irrespon-
sible to allow VA to invest more lim-
ited resources in new construction
when positive, viable alternatives are
available.
I appreciate the work our committee
has done to help improve access to
care, and I look forward to our contin-
ued efforts to realign VA’s priorities
and its unused or underutilized assets.
Mr. Chair, I urge support of this
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chair, I rise in op-
position to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia). The gentleman from Cali-
fornia is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chairman, I rise in
opposition to the amendment, which
would prevent additional VA hospitals
and clinics from providing onsite
childcare to veterans receiving care at
VA hospitals and clinics.
VA only has four childcare sites
throughout the VA system, and this
amendment would prevent further ex-
pansion of the program by preventing a
VA hospital or clinic from even doing
basic things to provide convenient
childcare, things like covering elec-
trical sockets to make a facility safe
for young children or putting up fenc-
ing around the playground so children
can play safely.
As our colleague, Ms. SHALALA, re-
minded us during the Rules Committee
meeting yesterday, and as many par-
ents of young children quickly learn,
most private childcare facilities do not
allow children to be temporarily
dropped off for just a few hours.
Childcare facilities need to know
whether children are up to date on
their vaccinations, have food allergies
or other medical conditions to provide
safe care.
This means VA must have the flexi-
bility to determine how best to execute
this program at each of its facilities
throughout the country. If this means
that it makes sense to build an onsite
childcare center, VA should not be
barred from doing so.
I think this amendment was written
without considering its effects, which
would limit further the expansion of
the program and prevent veterans from
being able to access childcare and their
healthcare when they need it.
Any of us who have been on this com-
mittee long enough know that VA has
had trouble managing major construc-
tion projects. Admittedly, this is what
we know on the committee. And I am
just as outraged as my colleagues
across the aisle when VA construction
projects are mismanaged and money is
wasted. However, we are talking about
minor construction that, in many
cases, will be necessary to expand this
program to all eligible veterans who
need it.
There are other ways in which we can
ensure the money for this program is
not mismanaged, and it doesn’t need to
be something as drastic as preventing
construction which will, in effect, pre-
vent the program’s expansion.
Now, I hope to work with General
Bergman and my other colleagues on
this committee to prevent mismanage-
ment of construction projects, procure-
ment of the $16 billion electronic
health record, and other contracts and
programs at the VA; and I pledge to
work with the general to ensure funds
for construction of childcare facilities
are not wasted.
Mr. Chair, I must say that I have to
urge my colleagues to oppose this
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Chairman, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P. ROE).
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chair, I rise in strong support of this
amendment to prohibit VA from con-
structing new structures to be used as
childcare centers.
Mr. Chair, the VA has over 6,000
pieces of property, and 1,100 of them
are either not utilized or underutilized.
We on the committee, including the
chairman, have just witnessed a $600
million hospital in Denver, Colorado,
explode into a $2 billion—I didn’t say
that wrong, two thousand million dol-
lars—project.
Both General Bergman’s amendment
and mine, which would have provided
greater flexibility to the Asset and In-
frastructure Review Commission, rec-
ognized that VA’s vast and, in most
cases, outdated, misaligned, and pro-
hibitively-expensive-to-maintain infra-
structure must be dealt with holis-
tically.
I regret that my amendment was not
made in order today, but I am glad
that General Bergman’s was. Where VA
has existing space that is not needed
for veteran patients, VA could and
should consider repurposing that space
to provide childcare assistance, and
where existing space is not available,
VA should use the authorities provided
in this bill to provide childcare assist-
ance.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentleman has expired.
Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Chair, I yield an
additional 2 minutes to the gentleman.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
Where existing space is not available,
VA should use the authorities provided
in this bill to provide childcare assist-
ance off VA property—either through
leases, sharing agreements, and other
means—rather than investing in costly
new buildings.
Mr. Chair, what happens? If we build
a childcare facility and the demo-
graphics change and it is no longer
needed, we have got an empty building.
If we lease that building, which this
gives us the authority to do, we can let
the lease expire, and the VA can go on
and use their moneys for something
else.
General BERGMAN is the ranking
member of the Subcommittee on Over-
sight and Investigations, and I thank
him today, as always, for his leadership
and vision on behalf of his fellow vet-
erans.
Mr. Chair, I am pleased to support
this amendment today, and I urge all
of my colleagues to join me in support.
Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chair, I would just
wish to point out to the ranking mem-
ber of the Oversight and Investigations
Subcommittee of the Veterans’ Affairs
Committee, General BERGMAN, that his
amendment would not even allow for
the repurposing of existing facility
space that may exist at a VA.
It is so rigid that it would be difficult
to even put protective electrical sock-
ets in to prevent young children from
electrocuting themselves. Even minor
construction would be prohibited by
this amendment.
I am pleased to know that the gen-
eral is serving on the Oversight and In-
vestigations Subcommittee, and I do
plan to work with the chairman, Mr.
PAPPAS of New Hampshire, and him to
make sure that VA money is well
spent.
As I said, this amendment would sim-
ply prevent reasonable expansion of
this program, and that is something
that members of this committee and
Members of this House would not want
to see happen.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Michigan (Mr. BERGMAN).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Chair, I demand
a recorded vote.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.065 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1426 February 7, 2019
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Michigan will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MRS. LEE OF
NEVADA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 5 printed in
House Report 116–6.
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Mr. Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 3, after line 21, insert the following:
‘‘(3) The term ‘facility of the Department’
includes any Vet Center.
‘‘(4) The term ‘Vet Center’ has the meaning
given that term in section 1712A of this
title.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 105, the gentlewoman
from Nevada (Mrs. LEE) and a Member
opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Nevada.
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Mr. Chairman,
my amendment clarifies that every
veteran is able to access childcare serv-
ices guaranteed by the underlying bill,
regardless of whether they are using
the services at a VA center, medical
center, or a vet center that is not on
the campus of a VA facility.
I am pleased to be joined in offering
this bipartisan amendment by my Re-
publican colleague Congresswoman
LESKO from Arizona. I would also like
to thank Congresswoman BROWNLEY
for leading this bill, as well as Chair-
man TAKANO and Ranking Member ROE
for their assistance and leadership on
this vital issue.
No veteran should be forced to choose
between caring for their children or
caring for themselves. In several
States, including my home State of Ne-
vada, veterans use both the VA medical
centers and the community-based vet
centers to access the care they need.
Vet centers provide a wide array of
social and psychological services to
help veterans readjust to civilian life,
and I am very proud of the work they
do to serve those who served all of us.
For many of those who do not have
access to a local VA medical center,
vet centers are the only VA facilities
they can use. To ensure that all vet-
erans and, in particular, women vet-
erans are able to receive the care they
need, our amendment would clarify
that any veteran receiving care, wheth-
er at a VA facility or an off-VA-campus
vet center, would be eligible for the
childcare authorized under this legisla-
tion.
We never want any veteran to choose
between receiving the care and support
they need or caring for their child. Our
amendment would guarantee that all
veterans would be able to access care
regardless of where and how they seek
treatment.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support this amendment, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chair, I claim the time in opposition to
the amendment, although I am not op-
posed to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chair, I rise in support of the amend-
ment sponsored by Congresswoman LEE
and Congresswoman LESKO to provide
for childcare assistance to veterans re-
ceiving readjustment counseling in a
vet center.
The work done in vet centers is crit-
ical to veterans who are struggling to
readjust to civilian life following their
military service. I am glad that this
amendment will make it easier for vet-
erans who lack childcare to seek the
support they need in vet centers, and I
will be supporting this amendment.
That being said, expanding childcare
assistance to include the hundreds of
vet centers across the country is a
costly prospect. Unfortunately, be-
cause the bill did not go through reg-
ular order, we do not know just how
costly this project will be.
I wish that we could have received re-
views and cost estimates on this pro-
posal prior to voting on it and hope
that, moving forward, bills will have
the benefit of work in committee be-
fore being moved onto the floor.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Mr. Chairman, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO).
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentlewoman for yielding.
I support this amendment because,
by clarifying that vet centers are cov-
ered under the bill, we are ensuring
that veterans seeking healthcare at
any VA facility are allowed access-at-
no-cost childcare.
Vet centers are particularly attrac-
tive to veterans who are uncomfortable
in a more clinical setting, and they
should be able to seek childcare while
they receive their mental health care
at a VA vet center.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from Arizona (Mrs. LESKO).
b 1615
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Chair, I am proud
to come to the floor today to discuss
an amendment to H.R. 840, the Vet-
erans’ Access to Child Care Act, that I
have cosponsored with my colleague,
Representative SUSIE LEE from Ne-
vada.
The Veterans’ Access to Child Care
Act will provide veterans who need to
attend regular or intensive mental
healthcare appointments with no-cost
childcare during their appointments.
Our amendment will make sure these
childcare services are covered at our
local VA clinics, such as the one in my
district in Peoria, Arizona, along with
the main VA facilities.
No veteran seeking these types of
mental health services should be left
behind. It is our responsibility to en-
sure that, under this legislation, all
our eligible veterans who need mental
health services are able to go to a facil-
ity operated by the VA Department,
even if it is located separately from the
VA’s general healthcare facility.
My home State of Arizona is blessed
to be home to so many of our Nation’s
veterans. In fact, I have 70,000 veterans
in my district alone. However, it deep-
ly troubles me that veteran suicide
rates are 9 percentage points higher in
Arizona than the national average.
Expensive childcare should not
hinder Arizona’s returning veterans
the ability to access needed mental
healthcare or other prolonged service-
connected disability care needs.
We need to do everything we can do
to help our Nation’s greatest heroes.
They risked it all for us. It is inexcus-
able for us, after our veterans have
given so much to defend our freedoms,
to permit policies that don’t give them
the best resources to recover and heal.
We relied on them to protect us; now
we must step up and help them.
I thank Representatives BROWNLEY
and ROE for their work on this legisla-
tion, and Representative LEE for her ef-
fort on this much-needed amendment.
I urge all of my colleagues to support
this amendment to give eligible vet-
erans choice and access.
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Mr. Chairman, I
have no other speakers, and I am pre-
pared to close at this time, if my col-
league is as well.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chair, I am prepared to close and urge
support of this bipartisan amendment,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Mr. Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Nevada (Mrs. LEE).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MR. BARR
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 6 printed in
House Report 116–6.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Chairman, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end, add the following:
SEC. 3. STUDY ON EFFECTS OF CHILD CARE AS-
SISTANCE.
(a) STUDY REQUIRED.—Not later than one
year after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall
conduct a study of the effects of the child
care assistance provided under section 2 on
access to covered health care services, as
that term is defined in that section, and on
compliance with treatment protocols.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall sub-
mit a report to Congress regarding the study
required under subsection (a).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 105, the gentleman
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.067 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1427
February 7, 2019
from Kentucky (Mr. BARR) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Kentucky.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Chairman, I rise
today in support of my amendment to
H.R. 840, the Veterans’ Access to Child
Care Act.
Let me just first say to my good
friend, the ranking member of the
House Veterans’ Affairs Committee, I
appreciate the opportunity and the
privilege and the responsibility to
serve in this Congress on the House
Veterans’ Affairs Committee so we can
continue to advocate for the veterans
of the Sixth Congressional District of
Kentucky and throughout the Nation.
This amendment would require the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to con-
duct a study on the effects of childcare
assistance provided in the underlying
bill on access to healthcare services
and compliance with treatment proto-
cols. While I certainly support the un-
derlying bill, this amendment is a com-
monsense measure that would improve
the legislation.
We should always be willing to evalu-
ate and assess whether or not the poli-
cies we enact are actually producing
their intended result; and this amend-
ment, by requiring the Secretary to
conduct a study after 1 year of the ef-
fects of the childcare assistance on the
actual access to the covered healthcare
services and the requirement to report
the findings of that study after 18
months to Congress, will ensure that
the policies we implement are actually
successful in increasing veterans’ ac-
cess to care.
I urge my colleagues to support this
amendment.
Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID
P. ROE), the ranking member of the
Veterans’ Affairs Committee.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chair, I thank the gentleman from
Kentucky, my next-door neighbor, for
doing this. We are really pleased to
have him on the Veterans’ Affairs Com-
mittee, Mr. Chair.
I rise in support of this amendment
to require VA to study how the provi-
sion of childcare assistance impacts ac-
cess to and compliance with care.
It is important that we closely mon-
itor any taxpayer-funded program to
ensure that it is meeting its intended
objectives, and I am grateful for Con-
gressman BARR’s foresight in ensuring
that we do this for this program as
well.
Congressman BARR has long been a
strong supporter of our Nation’s vet-
erans, and I am pleased to welcome
him, as stated, to the Veterans’ Affairs
Committee this Congress. I thank him
for his leadership on this amendment
and hope that all of my colleagues will
join me in supporting this amendment.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chair, I claim the
time in opposition to the amendment,
even though I am not opposed to it.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from California is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chairman, I rise in
support of this amendment offered by
the gentleman from Kentucky, a new
member on the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs, and I believe the co-
chair of the Bourbon Caucus.
I agree that it is important to re-
quire that VA collect data on the effec-
tiveness of its childcare program so we
can determine whether veterans are
better able to access their healthcare
because of this benefit.
As the veterans population becomes
increasingly diverse, the VA of the
year 2030 that I envision must be pre-
pared to provide healthcare to women
veterans, fathers of young children,
stepparents and grandparents, and to
make sure veterans are able to access
their healthcare while also caring for
their children.
Congress and VA need reliable data
to inform these decisions and deter-
mine whether other barriers to
healthcare access exist for veterans
who care for young children. If the
data from this study demonstrates that
veterans are less likely to miss ap-
pointments and have better healthcare
outcomes, it could be used to inform
further VA policy decisions to expand
the program.
Mr. Chairman, I wholeheartedly sup-
port this bipartisan amendment, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Chair, I appreciate
the chairman’s kind words, and I ap-
preciate the chairman’s support of this
amendment.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Kentucky (Mr. BARR).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MR. CISNEROS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 7 printed in
House Report 116–6.
Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment, No. 7, at the desk made in
order by the rule.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of the bill, insert the following:
(c) FEASIBILITY STUDY ON CHILD CARE FOR
VETERANS RECEIVING CARE IN NON-DEPART-
MENT FACILITIES.—
(1) STUDY REQUIRED.—The Secretary of
Veterans Affairs shall conduct a feasibility
study to determine how the Department of
Veterans Affairs could provide child care as-
sistance for veterans who receive covered
health care services (as such term is defined
in section 1730D(c)(2) of title 38, United
States Code, as added by subsection (a)) from
the Department at non-Department facili-
ties.
(2) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—Not later
than one year after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit
to the Committees on Veterans Affairs of the
Senate and House of Representatives a re-
port containing the results of the study re-
quired to be conducted under paragraph (1).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 105, the gentleman
from California (Mr. CISNEROS) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Chairman, I sin-
cerely thank my colleague, Ms.
BROWNLEY, for her steadfast leadership
on this critical issue, and Mr. TAKANO
for working with me to ensure consid-
eration. Finally, I would like to thank
the gentleman from Vermont (Mr.
WELCH) for cosponsoring this amend-
ment.
I rise to offer an amendment, which
would require the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to study how the VA
could provide childcare assistance for
veterans who receive covered
healthcare services furnished by the
VA at non-Department facilities.
I am a strong supporter and cospon-
sor of H.R. 840 because I am committed
to advancing policies that make it
easier for all veterans to take advan-
tage of their VA benefits they deserve.
As a veteran with two young twin
boys, I know firsthand that rambunc-
tious young kids can often derail the
best of plans. Providing safe, afford-
able, and convenient childcare for vet-
erans who are parents and grand-
parents eliminates just one of those
many barriers to quality care our vet-
erans can face when trying to make
health and mental health appoint-
ments. I rise to offer this amendment
to ensure that my constituents are not
left behind in this noble effort.
Orange County, California, is home
to the largest veteran population in
the country, approximately 130,000 vet-
erans, without its own VA hospital.
This leaves many of my constituents
without easy access to high-quality
care our VA system provides.
My amendment would direct the VA
to conduct a feasibility study to deter-
mine how the Department of Veterans
Affairs could provide childcare assist-
ance for veterans who receive
healthcare services far from a VA med-
ical center campus. This includes my
constituents seeking care at the Ana-
heim community-based orthopedic
clinic.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
support of this amendment to ensure
we do not overlook veterans who could
benefit from childcare services.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chair, I ask unanimous consent to rise
in opposition, although I am not op-
posed to it.
The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection
to the request of the gentleman from
Tennessee?
There was no objection.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chair, I rise in support of Congressman
CISNEROS’ and Congressman WELCH’s
amendment to require VA to conduct a
study to assess the feasibility of VA-
provided childcare assistance for vet-
erans receiving community care. This
is a critically important amendment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.071 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1428 February 7, 2019
For decades, VA has had the author-
ity to refer patients to community pro-
viders when veterans are unable to get
the care they need in VA medical fa-
cilities for various reasons. Last year,
almost 40 percent of appointments in
the VA healthcare system occurred in
the community.
Clearly, VA cannot meet every need
of every veteran patient in every com-
munity across this country without the
assistance of community partners.
That is not the fault of the VA
healthcare system. It is a strength.
Veterans in need of childcare assist-
ance should not be denied such assist-
ance when they are referred to a VA
community partner rather than a VA
provider.
I am disappointed that another
amendment offered by Congressman
CASE, that would have simply lifted
this barrier to care for those veterans
who must seek care through commu-
nity partners, was not accepted. How-
ever, I am encouraged that the issue
will be reexamined through this study.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
supporting this amendment today.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Chairman, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO).
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chairman, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I support this amendment because it
will allow Congress to receive the crit-
ical data and information it needs to
determine how to expand this program
and the feasibility of expanding this
program to community-based out-
patient clinics and VA centers, VA fa-
cilities that are away from the main
VA medical center campuses but crit-
ical for veterans in rural areas to ac-
cess their care.
While this bill specifically provides
the no-cost childcare benefit to vet-
erans receiving care from the VA doc-
tors, nurses, and VA providers, I would
like to work with my colleagues on the
committee at a future date on whether
it may be feasible to provide no-cost
childcare to veterans receiving treat-
ment from community providers, or
even look at ways we can provide in-
centives to community providers to
offer no-cost childcare on-site when
they contract with the VA to provide
care to veterans.
I thank the gentleman for offering
this important amendment. I support
it wholeheartedly, and I urge all my
colleagues to do so as well.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chair, I strongly support Congressman
CISNEROS’ amendment, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Chairman, I just
want to reiterate that this is a simple
amendment to require a study by the
VA within 1 year.
I urge my colleagues to adopt this
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. TAKANO).
The amendment was agreed to.
b 1630
AMENDMENT NO. 8 OFFERED BY MR. CISNEROS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 8 printed in
House Report 116–6.
Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Chairman, I have
an amendment, No. 8, at the desk made
in order by the rule.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 3, line 16, strike ‘‘or’’;
Page 3, after line 16, insert the following:
S6201
‘‘(C) intensive health care services related
to physical therapy for a service-connected
disability; or’’.
Page 3, line 17, strike ‘‘(C)’’ and insert
‘‘(D)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 105, the gentleman
from California (Mr. CISNEROS) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Chairman, I
want to quickly thank my colleague
and chair of the House Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs, Mr. TAKANO, for urg-
ing, in his testimony before the House
Committee on Rules, that this amend-
ment be made in order.
I rise to offer an amendment which
would include ‘‘intensive healthcare
services related to physical therapy for
a service-connected disability’’ in the
definition of ‘‘covered healthcare serv-
ice.’’
Physical therapy is an important as-
pect of any human process and is often
necessary for veterans suffering from
sustained pain or discomfort from a
service-connected disability. This expe-
rience can often involve lengthy com-
mitments and long commutes to
achieve results.
For my constituents, accessing phys-
ical therapy services at VA health clin-
ics, receiving regular physical therapy
means making a regular commitment
to be stuck in traffic on the 405 to drive
to the Long Beach VA hospital.
My amendment will ensure that vet-
erans in need of physical therapy for a
service-connected disability are specifi-
cally afforded access to childcare serv-
ices.
VA benefits are not truly benefits if
the costs associated with childcare dur-
ing regular appointments place too
large a burden on veteran caretakers.
Veterans and their families face
many obstacles when transitioning
back to civilian life, but access to
healthcare should not be one of them. I
urge my colleagues to support this
amendment.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chairman, I ask unanimous consent to
rise in opposition to the amendment,
although I am not opposed.
The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection
to the request of the gentleman from
Tennessee?
There was no objection.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Chair, I share the gentleman’s
concern. I have been on the 405, and I
certainly understand that trip.
Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of
Congressman CISNEROS’ amendment to
include physical therapy for service-
connected disabilities under the defini-
tion of ‘‘covered health service.’’
Caring for service-connected condi-
tions is the reason the VA healthcare
system exists. Service-connected con-
ditions should always take priority. I
thank Congressman CISNEROS for rec-
ognizing this with his amendment. I
am proud to join him in supporting it.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Chairman, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO).
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentleman for yielding.
I support this amendment because it
provides an important clarification
that veterans receiving physical ther-
apy for a service-connected disability
will be able to access no-cost childcare.
When 50 percent of the veterans
treated in VA facilities suffer from
chronic pain, physical therapy is a
vital part of their treatment that will
reduce their need for prescribing
opioids. We are in the midst of an
opioid epidemic in this country, and
many of our veterans, sadly, suffer
from opioid addiction because they
were prescribed these powerful drugs to
treat pain.
We should encourage other treat-
ments like physical therapy, which can
address the root cause of pain, and
make it easier for them to access this
care, which often requires multiple
treatments over time.
I thank the gentleman for this im-
portant amendment, and I urge my col-
leagues to support it.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chair, caring for service-connected
conditions is the reason the VA
healthcare system exists. I strongly
support Congressman CISNEROS’
amendment and encourage my col-
leagues to support it also.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Chairman, I just
want to reiterate that this is a simple,
commonsense amendment. I urge my
colleagues to adopt this amendment.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. CISNEROS).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 9 OFFERED BY MR. RODNEY
DAVIS OF ILLINOIS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 9 printed in
House Report 116–6.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I have an amendment at the
desk.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.073 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1429
February 7, 2019
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as
follows:
Page 3, line 3, strike ‘‘the’’ and insert ‘‘a’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 105, the gentleman
from Illinois (Mr. RODNEY DAVIS) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Illinois.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I obviously rise in support
of our amendment.
Mr. Chairman, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Tennessee (Mr.
DAVID P. ROE), the ranking member of
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
before I offer my comments.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chair, I want to thank Congressman
RODNEY DAVIS, first of all, for his com-
mitment to our Nation’s heroes.
I was able and privileged to be in his
district last year. I saw his commit-
ment to that and the respect that they
have for him, and I want to thank him
for bringing this up. He does a terrific
job for our Nation’s heroes in his dis-
trict, and it was a privilege to be there.
I rise in support of Congressman
DAVIS’ and Congressman PANETTA’s
commonsense amendment. The bill we
are considering today defines a veteran
who is eligible for childcare assistance
as a veteran who is ‘‘the’’ primary
caretaker of a child or children. How-
ever, this amendment rightly recog-
nizes that most children have two par-
ents and either of them could be con-
sidered ‘‘a’’ primary caretaker of that
child.
I thank Congressman DAVIS and Con-
gressman PANETTA for that clarifica-
tion, and I am happy to support this
amendment today.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chairman, I rise in
opposition, even though I am not op-
posed to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from California is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chairman, I rise in
support of this amendment offered by
the gentleman from Illinois, which
would ensure either parent to a young
child would be considered the primary
caretaker for a child and, therefore, el-
igible to receive the childcare benefit.
This amendment is necessary, espe-
cially in instances when a veteran is
receiving mental health services with a
spouse. In instances like this, a veteran
could not rely on the spouse to watch a
child if it was important that a spouse
participate in the treatment.
This will also relieve a significant
administrative burden on VA and the
veteran: As long as a veteran is a par-
ent to a child and in need of childcare,
that veteran would be eligible.
As lawmakers, we should strive to
make sure that programs we authorize
are not confusing to VA and conduct
oversight to ensure our constituents
are not confused when the VA rolls out
a program. This amendment will make
it more clear to VA and veterans that,
in families where one or both parents
are veterans, they are eligible for this
childcare benefit when receiving serv-
ices from the VA.
I support this amendment, and I urge
my colleagues to do the same.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, in my short time here in
this institution, I have found that,
when you offer an amendment to a bill
that has jurisdiction of a committee
that you don’t sit on, it is always good
to have the chairman and ranking
member be in support of your amend-
ment. So I want to thank Chairman
TAKANO and Ranking Member ROE for
their help—and their team’s help—in
helping us craft this commonsense so-
lution.
And I really want to thank my good
friend and colleague JIMMY PANETTA,
who is a main cosponsor of this amend-
ment. JIMMY and I have worked to-
gether on a wide variety of issues, but
not many more important than making
sure that our families, our heroes, get
access to the childcare and the services
that they need.
This Veterans’ Access to Child Care
Act, also, Mr. Chairman, builds upon a
successful pilot program and is finally
going to provide some certainty and
better access to mental and intensive
healthcare services for our heroes, our
veterans, through increased access to
childcare while our veterans attend the
appointments that they need to attend
to.
The intention of this amendment, as
you heard from the chairman and the
ranking member, is to make sure that
the VA does not determine that this
bill is meant that there is only one pri-
mary caretaker in the family and then,
arbitrarily, have a bureaucrat at the
VA decide who that caretaker is.
Without this change, some veterans
this bill is intended to help would not
be able to access childcare over a tech-
nicality. Our amendment, as you
heard, clarifies this language to help
eliminate barriers to mental health
services for our veterans with families.
When our veterans face a mental
health crisis, I want to ensure that
they are not alone, and that we are
doing everything we can to properly
support them and their families.
While we have been successful in
passing legislation that prevents many
veterans from having to drive long dis-
tances to access care, it is possible
that, in some cases, a veteran in my
district could have to drive 4 hours to
the nearest VA hospital, and ensured
access to childcare will encourage
them to get the services that they
need.
I don’t want a technicality to get in
the way of our heroes. I want to make
sure they get access to the services
they need. That is why I urge my col-
leagues to support this bipartisan
amendment.
I urge all Members to support our
amendment to H.R. 840, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chairman, I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 10 OFFERED BY MR. SABLAN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 10 printed
in House Report 116–6.
Mr. SABLAN. Mr. Chairman, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 3, line 14, insert ‘‘, including tele-
mental health services furnished by the De-
partment’’ after ‘‘services’’.
Page 3, line 15, insert ‘‘, including tele-
mental health services furnished by the De-
partment’’ after ‘‘services’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 105, the gentleman
from the Northern Mariana Islands
(Mr. SABLAN) and a Member opposed
each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from the Northern Mariana Islands.
Mr. SABLAN. Mr. Chairman, I rise
today to offer an amendment clarifying
that telemental health services fur-
nished by the VA are included in the
list of covered healthcare services
under H.R. 840.
Making it easier for veterans to get
mental healthcare services by pro-
viding childcare while they are receiv-
ing treatment just makes sense. Most
parents are not going to use the mental
health services the VA provides if it
means leaving their kids at home
alone. Worrying about their children
will only worsen the mental stress for
veterans in need of care.
So I support H.R. 840, but I want to
make sure the childcare the bill offers
will be available to veterans in my dis-
trict who can only receive mental
health service by videoconference.
We do not have a VA psychologist in
the Marianas. For that matter, we do
not have a community-based out-
patient clinic or a vet center or a VBA
specialist, services that veterans in the
rest of America can take for granted.
So my vets must sit in front of a video
monitor to get mental health coun-
seling—not exactly the best arrange-
ment, in my opinion.
So let us at least try and make sure
that veterans in the Marianas—or any-
where else in the Nation—or anywhere
else the VA only offers telemedicine in-
stead of real person-to-person care,
that those veterans do not have to
worry about the safety and well-being
of their children. Let us be sure there
is no ambiguity in H.R. 840.
I ask my colleagues for their support
of my amendment, backed by the Vet-
erans of Foreign Wars, so we can be
sure that even vets receiving mental
health services by video can have the
cost of childcare covered.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chair, I ask unanimous consent to rise
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.077 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1430 February 7, 2019
in opposition, although I am not op-
posed.
The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection
to the request of the gentleman from
Tennessee?
There was no objection.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Chair, I rise in support of Con-
gressman SABLAN’s amendment to in-
clude mental healthcare provided via
telemedicine under the definition of a
‘‘covered health service.’’
The VA healthcare system is an in-
dustry leader in telemedicine and
should be commended in using it to in-
crease access to care for veterans who
would otherwise have to travel great
distances on a regular basis to receive
the care they need.
I want to thank my good friend, Con-
gressman SABLAN, who is a tireless ad-
vocate in the Marianas. He has been an
amazing supporter of the veterans
there who really have very limited
services. I thank him for introducing
this amendment to make sure that vet-
erans accessing tele-healthcare are
also eligible for childcare assistance, if
needed.
I am pleased to join him in sup-
porting this.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
b 1645
Mr. SABLAN. Mr. Chair, I very much
thank the chairman of the committee,
the gentleman from California, and the
ranking member, the gentleman from
Tennessee, for their leadership on the
House Veterans’ Affairs Committee.
Mr. Chair, I would like to thank my
colleague, Ms. BROWNLEY, for intro-
ducing this bill.
Mr. Chair, I yield as much time as he
may consume to the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO), the chairman
of the House Veterans’ Affairs Com-
mittee.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Chairman, I want to make note
that we just have gotten a release that
the VA has exceeded 1 million tele-
health visits in fiscal year 2018. That
one-year achievement represents a 19
percent increase over the previous
year. I congratulate the VA for that
amazing achievement.
I want to make known my support
for my good colleague from the North-
ern Mariana Islands, Mr. SABLAN’s,
amendment, because as VA expands its
footprint—and we have just seen how it
has expanded its footprint signifi-
cantly—and that it remains at the
forefront of providing treatment via
telemental health services, we need to
ensure that the VA has the ability to
make those telehealth services as suc-
cessful as their in-person services.
In districts like Mr. SABLAN’s where
veterans are separated from VA
healthcare services by the Pacific
Ocean, telemental health is often the
only manner in which veterans are able
to receive mental healthcare from the
VA.
Mr. Chair, I thank the gentleman for
offering this very important amend-
ment and I urge my colleagues to sup-
port it.
Mr. SABLAN. Mr. Chair, I have no
further speakers. I ask for support for
H.R. 840, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from the Northern Mariana Is-
lands (Mr. SABLAN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 11 OFFERED BY MR. CLOUD
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 11 printed
in House Report 116–6.
Mr. CLOUD. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 2, after line 24, insert the following:
‘‘(c) ANNUAL REPORT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall sub-
mit to Congress an annual report on the pro-
vision of child care assistance under this sec-
tion. Each such report shall include, for the
year covered by the report, each of the fol-
lowing for each of the categories of child
care assistance specified in paragraph (2):
‘‘(A) The average amount of time required
by the Department to provide a payment for
child care assistance.
‘‘(B) The average cost of child care assist-
ance.
‘‘(C) The extent to which the Department
has a backlog of unprocessed claims for child
care assistance.
‘‘(D) The number of Department employees
who worked on the processing of claims for
child care assistance.
‘‘(E) The average amount of time required
by such an employee to process such a claim.
‘‘(F) The number of improper or duplica-
tive payments of child care assistance made.
‘‘(G) The recommendations of the Sec-
retary for improving the processing of claims
for child care assistance.
‘‘(2) CATEGORIES OF CHILD CARE ASSIST-
ANCE.—The categories of child care assist-
ance specified in this paragraph are each of
the following:
‘‘(A) Direct stipends.
‘‘(B) Payments made directly to a child
care agencies.
‘‘(C) Stipends provided through a voucher
program.’’.
Page 2, line 25, strike ‘‘(c)’’ and insert
‘‘(d)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 105, the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. CLOUD) and a Member
opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Texas.
Mr. CLOUD. Mr. Chair, I rise in sup-
port of my amendment to H.R. 840, the
Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act.
In 2017, the Congressional Budget Of-
fice estimated that under similar legis-
lation to what we are considering
today, the VA each year would need to
process about 665,000 claims for reim-
bursement of childcare each year.
The VA has a history filled with
delays and difficulty in processing
claims for veterans.
As my staff and I have worked with
veterans in our Texas 27th District, we
too often hear from veterans about the
trouble they have encountered with the
VA. From delays in processing benefit
claims, to wait times in scheduling ap-
pointments; veterans have often waited
months, sometimes years from hearing
back from the VA on their request or
receiving reimbursement for payments
due them.
Should this bill pass, the VA will
have to process a considerable amount
of childcare claims each year; there-
fore, we must ensure that there is over-
sight in the VA’s progress in paying
veterans and private care providers for
childcare.
My amendment would inject account-
ability into this program by requiring
the VA to submit an annual report to
Congress on how the processing of
claims is going.
Specifically, the report would include
data on the number of childcare claims
filed each year, the number of staffers
required to process a claim, the aver-
age cost of each claim, and how long it
takes the VA to process a claim.
If there is a backlog of unprocessed
claims, the VA must report on the
backlog and how it is working to re-
solve the needs of the affected vet-
erans.
Finally, the VA must report on any
improper or duplicative payments
made for this program.
Ultimately, my amendment would
close the gap in this legislation by giv-
ing the House Veterans’ Affairs Com-
mittee and the VSOs important data
they otherwise wouldn’t have.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chairman, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment, even though I am not opposed to
the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from California is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chairman, I rise in
support of the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Texas.
I think all of us can recount concerns
raised by our constituents about VA
payment processing and late payments
to healthcare providers.
Although I am not aware of any
issues with respect to VA stipend pay-
ments to childcare providers under
VA’s pilot program, I do think it is im-
portant that VA report to Congress on
whether it has experienced problems
with making timely payments and ask
for the resources to address payment
processing.
The more data we collect from VA,
the better we are able to determine
what solutions and resources are need-
ed to improve VA programs and serv-
ices.
Mr. Chair, I do thank the gentleman
for offering this amendment, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. CLOUD. Mr. Chair, I thank the
chairman for his support.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.080 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1431
February 7, 2019
Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID
P. ROE), the ranking member.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Chair, I rise in support of this amend-
ment to require an annual report on
the processing of claims for childcare
assistance.
VA has made improvements in recent
years in the speed at which community
providers are being reimbursed for the
services they provide to veteran pa-
tients, however, claims processing re-
mains an area where VA struggles; to
be kind to them, struggles.
We must take steps to ensure that
veterans and childcare providers who
are awaiting reimbursement pursuant
to this bill are not left waiting like
many veterans and community pro-
viders have been previously.
Mr. Chair, I am grateful to Congress-
man CLOUD for his leadership and spon-
soring this amendment and I look for-
ward to joining him in its support.
Mr. CLOUD. Mr. Chair, I urge the
passage of this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chairman, I have
no further speakers. I urge support for
the gentleman’s amendment, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. CLOUD).
The amendment was agreed to.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Chairman, I move
that the Committee do now rise.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York) having
assumed the chair, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Acting Chair of the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union, reported that that Com-
mittee, having had under consideration
the bill (H.R. 840) to amend title 38,
United States Code, to direct the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to provide
child care assistance to veterans re-
ceiving certain medical services pro-
vided by the Department of Veterans
Affairs, had come to no resolution
thereon.
f
AUTHORIZING THE CLERK TO
MAKE CORRECTIONS IN EN-
GROSSMENT OF H.R. 494, TIF-
FANY JOSLYN JUVENILE AC-
COUNTABILITY BLOCK GRANT
PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION
ACT OF 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that the Clerk
be directed to make the change in the
engrossment of H.R. 494 that I placed
at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the change.
The Clerk read as follows:
Strike section 1 and insert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Tiffany
Joslyn Juvenile Accountability Block Grant
Reauthorization and Bullying Prevention
and Intervention Act of 2019’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
f
HONORING COAST GUARD CHIEF
WARRANT OFFICER MICHAEL
KOZLOSKI
(Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York asked and was given permis-
sion to address the House for 1 minute
and to revise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York. Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor
a young man from my district in New
York’s Hudson Valley who passed away
last week while serving his country.
Coast Guard Chief Warrant Officer
Michael Kozloski, originally from
Mahopac, New York, was only 35 years
old.
Michael died as a result of injuries
sustained during a crane accident while
serving in Alaska.
Mike leaves behind his wife of 13
years, Brie, and four young children.
He dedicated his entire adult life, 17
years, to protecting our country as a
member of the Coast Guard.
We all owe Mike and his family an
enormous debt of gratitude for his
service and for making the ultimate
sacrifice in defense of our country.
I spoke to Mike’s wife earlier today,
and she told me that the community of
Homer, Alaska, has rallied to her side,
even as a dozen family members have
flown in.
At a time when we ask so much of
our Coast Guard families, how fitting
to be reminded that as Americans, we
still rally to our heroes and their fami-
lies at these difficult times.
Mr. Speaker, I ask all of us to join in
prayer for Michael and his family.
We will be closely monitoring the on-
going investigation in this incident and
offering our assistance as needed.
Our hearts go out to Michael’s fam-
ily, his friends at Mahopac, and the en-
tire Coast Guard community. We thank
them for their service. We remember
Michael for his sacrifice, and we pledge
that he will not be forgotten.
f
NEW YORK PARTIAL BIRTH
ABORTION BILL
(Mrs. WALORSKI asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Mrs. WALORSKI. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to urge a vote on H.R. 962, the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act.
This bill would require doctors to
provide medical attention to children
who survive an abortion attempt.
Unfortunately, H.R. 962 is needed
more than ever with the passage of a
radical law in New York State that es-
sentially legalizes infanticide. That
law allows abortions up to and even
after birth and ends safeguards to pro-
tect babies born alive after failed abor-
tions.
Similar bills are being debated right
now in States like Virginia, where the
Governor spoke of making newborns
comfortable while doctors and patients
decide if they should be left to die.
We have to stand up against this rad-
ical legislation to protect the rights of
all infants.
This is not a partisan issue. It is sim-
ply what is right to do.
Congress must pass the Born-Alive
Abortion Survivors Protection Act,
and I urge this Speaker of this House
to schedule a vote as soon as possible.
f
b 1700
HONORING GUN VICTIMS IN
AMERICA
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
rise this afternoon to recognize and ac-
knowledge gun victims in America.
This week in the Judiciary Com-
mittee, we held an important hearing
on beginning the first steps toward real
commonsense gun safety legislation.
In listening to witnesses from law en-
forcement, victims and near-victims,
representatives from the health profes-
sion, and, yes, those who advocated for
the Second Amendment, I would argue
that, in this tribute to gun victims,
recognizing the pain of their families
and those lives lost, that no one is
challenging the Second Amendment.
But with 100 persons a day dying by
gun violence in the United States, it is
without question that we must move
quickly on universal background
checks; we must move quickly on mak-
ing bump stocks illegal; we must move
quickly on the question of assault
weapons; we must move quickly on
closing loopholes and straw purchases;
and we must work with the mental
health community to ensure that we
address that very sensitive question to
help people who are disturbed and chal-
lenged.
Mr. Speaker, I honor those who have
lost their lives, and I honor them by
our action.
f
ATLANTIC CITY RAIL LINE
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to express my disappointment at
New Jersey Transit.
New Jersey Transit promised the
public that the Atlantic City project
will be finished by early 2019, but re-
cently, it announced that the Atlantic
City Rail Line would be closed up to
more than 5 months. That is not an in-
convenience; that is a disaster.
My constituents want service to be
restored immediately, and they want,
most importantly, the truth. That is
why a majority of my New Jersey col-
leagues and I are sending a letter of ad-
monishment to New Jersey Transit.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.083 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1432 February 7, 2019
Mr. Speaker, this is the time for New
Jersey Transit to do the right thing for
the sake of our commuters, to do the
right thing for the sake of our workers,
and to do the right thing for the State
of New Jersey. People’s livelihoods and
the quality of their lives depend on the
Atlantic City Rail Line.
f
ADDRESS THE ONGOING CRISIS
(Mr. BURCHETT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to plead with my colleagues to
address the ongoing crisis at our bor-
ders.
Just last week, Federal agents made
the largest fentanyl bust in U.S. his-
tory at a checkpoint along our border
with Mexico. These drugs were headed
into our communities.
Some of our colleagues will say the
fact that the bust occurred at a legal
point of entry is proof that we are
doing enough to keep our Nation se-
cure and our neighborhoods safe.
I ask you, if these drug dealers are
bold enough to try to sneak this much
contraband through a known check-
point, how much are they smuggling
across our porous borders in the dark
of night or through the open desert?
The answer is, more than we know.
And it is far too much, Mr. Speaker.
Whether it is the promise of work
and entitlements or the promise of an
illegal drug market, we must demag-
netize the attraction to our country for
those who disregard our sovereignty
and rule of law. We must secure our
country and deal with the human traf-
ficking and narcotics trafficking crisis
that exists at our southern border.
f
STATE OF THE UNION REACTION
(Mr. CICILLINE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, on
Tuesday the President gave a State of
the Union Address that was short on
details but long on hypocrisy. His re-
marks were long, self-absorbed, and di-
vorced from reality.
Much like 1 year ago, his speech was
noteworthy for the things he didn’t
say. He didn’t mention that we live in
a time of the greatest income inequal-
ity since the 1920s. He didn’t mention
the environment and our responsibil-
ities to respond to climate change, to
strengthen Social Security, or edu-
cation for young people.
These are the real challenges facing
working people today. They are also
the things that the President has ig-
nored during his time in office.
The people of this great country de-
serve better.
Democrats are committed to deliv-
ering for the people. That means:
Cracking down on corruption in
Washington and reducing the influence
of money in our political system;
Raising wages by rebuilding our in-
frastructure;
Lowering healthcare and prescription
drug costs;
Ending the epidemic of gun violence;
and
Taking on the challenge of climate
change.
Let’s get the job done and restore
government of, by, and for the people
of this great country.
f
THE REAL CRISIS AT THE BORDER
(Mr. CISNEROS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, a cou-
ple days ago, the President gave a
State of the Union Address that did
nothing to promote unity but, rather,
used fear to further a divisive agenda
against immigrants by repeating lies
about his manufactured emergency at
our southern border.
However, there was no mention of
the real crisis. The real crisis stems
from the President’s inhumane separa-
tion policies.
Mr. Speaker, 8 months since his cruel
zero-tolerance policy first came to
light, the number of children who were
ripped away from families at the bor-
der continues to rise. At first, the ad-
ministration said nearly 3,000 children
were separated from their parents.
Now, we are learning that it has been
thousands more.
The administration also claims that
they can’t easily find the parents of
the children they ripped away, and
they don’t even think it is worth the
time to locate them. This inhumane
policy and how they treat these chil-
dren goes against everything this coun-
try stands for.
The President and this administra-
tion need to do everything that they
can to ensure the reunification of these
families. The prolonged separation of
these children has caused irreparable
damage to their mental health and
well-being.
That, Mr. President, is the real crisis
that you have created at the southern
border.
f
ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF THE
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
(Mr. BIGGS asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to discuss, briefly, some of the accom-
plishments of the Trump administra-
tion that were pointed out in the State
of the Union Address the other day.
I think it is imperative that we rec-
ognize that over 5 million jobs have
been created in the last 2 years, over
300,000 in the last month alone. The
economists had predicted and projected
170,000 jobs, and yet almost twice as
many jobs were created. There are now
a record of 157 million Americans em-
ployed in this country.
The unemployment rate has re-
mained at or below the 4 percent for 11
straight months. That hasn’t happened
in almost 50 years.
There has been half a million manu-
facturing jobs since President Trump
became President, and there were more
manufacturing jobs created in 2018
than any single year in the last 20
years.
We have seen the judiciary be re-
stored to, in my opinion, normalcy,
with the confirmation of Supreme
Court Justices Neil Gorsuch and Brett
Kavanaugh, and more than 40 Federal
judges confirmed just this week.
f
BORDER SECURITY
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia). Under the Speak-
er’s announced policy of January 3,
2019, the gentleman from North Caro-
lina (Mr. WALKER) is recognized for 60
minutes as the designee of the minor-
ity leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and introduce ex-
traneous material into the RECORD on
the topic of this Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from North Carolina?
There was no objection.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, there has
been a great deal of talk in the last few
months on border security, what it
takes to secure our border and what it
takes to protect the safety and the se-
curity of the American people.
Today, we are taking a few minutes
with different Members to share very
powerful but very impactful stories
from their districts. This is not hyper-
bole or set up for histrionics, but some-
times the message of actually what is
going on in our country doesn’t always
cut through with our media outlets.
So today, the different Members,
many of them have special relation-
ships with these folks they will be ref-
erencing and talking about today in
this Special Order.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Indiana (Mr. PENCE), our first
speaker, who represents Indiana’s
Sixth District and serves on the Trans-
portation and Infrastructure and For-
eign Affairs Committees. But even
more impressive to me is that Mr.
GREG PENCE is a veteran of our Marine
Corps, and he is a successful business-
man.
Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to urge this body to act on the national
crisis that currently exists along our
southern border.
This crisis plays itself out not only
in the border towns of California, Ari-
zona, New Mexico, and Texas, but in
communities across the Nation, includ-
ing my very own, Indiana’s Sixth Dis-
trict. The statistics speak for them-
selves:
In my home of Bartholomew County,
the sheriff’s office booked 34 individ-
uals with an immigration detainer 2
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.086 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1433
February 7, 2019
years ago. Last year, that number
jumped to 132.
Hoosiers also feel the effects of the
border crisis in the form of an opioid
crisis that now kills more Americans
than car accidents, gun violence, or
breast cancer. This crisis is tearing
families apart. The Department of Cor-
rections says one in three Hoosiers re-
siding in State prisons are battling ad-
diction to opioids.
In the last year, Customs and Border
officials have reported dramatic in-
creases in meth, heroin, and fentanyl
along our southern border. These are
some of the very drugs that claimed
the lives of more than 1,800 Hoosiers in
2017.
President Trump is right. We must
create an immigration system that is
safe, lawful, modern, and secure. It is
not just the border States feeling the
effects of illegal immigration; it is
communities like ours in the Sixth
District of Indiana that are being rav-
aged by the massive scourge of drugs
coming across the southern border.
We must end this crisis. Mr. Speaker,
it is time to secure the southern border
and build the wall.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I appre-
ciate Mr. PENCE’s words today and the
powerful expression of how it is im-
pacting the State of Indiana.
One of our new Members, a very ac-
complished gentleman himself, an
aerospace engineer representing the
First District of Oklahoma, has also
worked within the McDonald’s system
and owns multiple restaurants
throughout the different portions of
Oklahoma and is actually on the na-
tional leadership team.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Oklahoma (Mr. KEVIN HERN), to
share a little bit about his State of
Oklahoma.
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma. Mr.
Speaker, my constituents have been
calling the office in overwhelming
numbers. They tell me to stand with
our President to get the funding our
Customs and Border agents have asked
for.
I got a call from a police recruit in
Tulsa just this week who has seen first-
hand the impact that illegal immigra-
tion has on the safety of our citizens.
It places a huge burden on our law en-
forcement agents who are already put-
ting themselves in harm’s way for our
safety every day.
With unregulated borders, we open
our country up to the tragedy of
human trafficking. Undocumented
women and children are especially vul-
nerable to traffickers. Ninety percent
of the heroin in our country comes ille-
gally from Mexico.
With dangerous drugs like cocaine,
methamphetamines, and heroine come
gun activity, violent crime, and the se-
rious problem of addiction.
In December, Tulsa law enforcement
officers found 2 pounds of heroin and 16
pounds of methamphetamines in con-
nection in the Sinaloa drug cartel
smuggled into the States from Mexico.
These dangerous and illegal drugs are
finding their way into communities
across the country.
There is a fix for all of this: Build the
wall.
A physical barrier—which I might
add, most of my friends from the other
side of the aisle have historically sup-
ported—will stop illegal entry in its
tracks. There is no replacement for a
physical barrier.
Last month, the President told the
American people that we need a wall,
not because we hate the people on the
outside, but because we love the people
on the inside.
b 1715
Mr. Speaker, I agree. How can we
keep our people safe when we don’t
know who is coming into this country?
Let’s start prioritizing the American
people and their safety.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
rise above partisanship for the sake of
our citizens. We can stop the human
trafficking crisis. We can catch the
drug smugglers. We can keep our peo-
ple safe. At the end of the day, the only
thing that will truly help us is to pass
bipartisan legislation to secure our
borders and build a wall.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Mr. HERN for coming, and I appreciate
his time.
Our next speaker today is Represent-
ative BRAD WENSTRUP. In some circles,
he is called Colonel WENSTRUP. He is a
great man and my classmate. He has
been awarded the Bronze Star, as well
as the Combat Action Badge, for his
service.
In fact, it was on a baseball field a
year and a half ago that that Combat
Action Badge showed itself off again
when he was the only one equipped to
be able to put a tourniquet on STEVE
SCALISE and save his life.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Ohio (Mr. WENSTRUP), my fellow
classmate from Ohio’s Second District.
Mr. WENSTRUP. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Mr. WALKER for yielding me the
time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to support the se-
curity and the safety of all our fellow
Americans. The fact of the matter is
that border security isn’t or shouldn’t
be a partisan issue. That is why many
of my colleagues from across the aisle
have actually supported border secu-
rity and fencing in the past.
The fact is, this is an American issue
that affects every part of our Nation,
sometimes in very visible ways, some-
times in ways less visible.
I represent southern and south-
western Ohio, not a border State, but it
is deeply and tragically impacted by
the lack of border security.
In the last couple years, there was a
woman from my district area who was
being deported. The archbishop called
the Senator on her behalf, and he has
every right to do that. This is someone
who was being deported under the
Obama administration. They set a
date. When the date came, she didn’t
adhere, and she was deported.
The archbishop had every right to en-
gage in that act, if he felt like he
should reach out to the Representative.
But I met with the archbishop and I
asked him: Where were you in the
case—such as I am about to tell you
about—where were you when someone
was in need because of the actions of
someone who was here illegally?
Last year, I met a mother of a 15-
year-old girl. The mother told me
about their neighbor, the neighbor that
they trusted, that they had picnics
with. They told him: You have nothing
to worry about. You are here legally.
It turns out, he was a 41-year-old ille-
gal immigrant who had previously been
deported from this country but reen-
tered the U.S. illegally and gained em-
ployment by using the Social Security
number of a 69-year-old woman from
Arkansas.
One day, he knocked on their door,
and since their daughter knew him, she
opened the door, and he went in and
beat and raped her.
Her innocence was taken forever. Her
life changed forever. He got 8 years.
She got a life sentence, and it didn’t
need to happen.
Tragically, one of my local prosecu-
tors tells me there have been multiple
cases like this in our area over the last
few years. These are the families I
think about when someone calls a bor-
der wall immoral.
As President Trump said in his ad-
dress, we don’t build walls because we
hate the people on the outside. It is be-
cause we love the people on the inside.
But, really, we also love the people on
the outside who want to come here le-
gally to be part of our American fam-
ily.
This isn’t about keeping people out
of our country. This is about control-
ling access, so we know who and what
is coming into our country.
Sitting idly by and making no effort
to resolve these problems is wrong. It
is a disservice to those who have suf-
fered violence at the hands of criminals
who have entered our Nation illegally.
These victims are real, and so is their
pain. We owe it to them to enforce our
laws.
To my colleagues, I say: Come to the
table. Let’s negotiate a solution,
smartly enhance our security, and
drive on for the betterment of all
Americans, so that, rather than being a
borderless and lawless country, Amer-
ica will be the beacon of hope for those
who desire to come to this great coun-
try of ours legally.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for his comments. It is
my belief that that kind of common
sense will prevail with the majority of
the American people, knowing our job
and continuing to work to keep the
safety and security of the American
people as a high priority.
Our next speaker tonight is a Mem-
ber in his sophomore term but who al-
ready has many accomplishments in
the political arena.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Texas, Mr. JODEY ARRINGTON, who
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.088 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1434 February 7, 2019
served under President George W. Bush
and as chief of staff to the FDIC Chair-
man, representing Texas’ 19th Congres-
sional District.
Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from North Caro-
lina, Representative WALKER, for his
service and his leadership, not just to
this body, but myself personally.
He is a spiritual leader and mentor
for so many. We have a lot of ways to
measure success in life and in this job,
but I can tell you, one of them is to
maintain a healthy relationship with
our Lord and savior, and I want to
thank him publicly.
This is a serious issue, and it is one
that we in Texas have a lot of knowl-
edge about and experience with, unfor-
tunately, and that is border security. It
is also a humanitarian crisis.
Mr. Speaker, we are on the front
lines, and we see the drugs, gangs, and
criminal activity pouring into the
great State of Texas, not just along the
impact zone immediately across from
the southern border, but in commu-
nities in west Texas, in the 19th Con-
gressional District, and not just my
population center, but in rural commu-
nities as well.
Here is a statistic that is pretty star-
tling. Since 2011, 180,000 illegal immi-
grants were charged in the great State
of Texas with 290,000 crimes.
I talked to local law enforcement of-
ficers, sheriffs, police chiefs, and others
in my communities over the last few
weeks. They are telling me that the
volume of drugs coming into our com-
munities is off the charts and that the
crime has increased exponentially—not
just property crime, but violent crime.
They are telling me that gangs, not
just the shoestring gangs, as they call
them, but the very violent gangs and
cartels, the Sinaloa cartel and the Los
Zetas cartel, are in my district in west
Texas. They are showing up in our
backyards and our neighborhoods, and
it is scary.
Here is the sad fact: This country has
the resources and tools to do some-
thing about it. Our President has asked
for those resources and tools. He has a
comprehensive border security plan,
and we have to have political will. We
have to be able to put our country
first, especially when it comes to the
safety and security of our people.
Mr. Speaker, I have heard people say
that drugs are coming through only
ports of entry. You can tell from this
map, they are coming across the border
at various places.
Just a month ago, there was 700
pounds of cocaine caught at the border,
and we had our largest drug bust up in
my district in a little town called Den-
ver City, about 22 kilos of cocaine. So
we have to do something about it.
Mr. Speaker, I beg of my colleagues
to do the right thing and put their
country before politics. I thank the
gentleman for yielding to me.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Representative ARRINGTON for coming,
and I appreciate his kind remarks, and
sobering ones, at the same time. We do
have a problem at the border with
drugs. We do have a problem with vio-
lence of illegal aliens. That is why we
continue to message through this.
Just 2 nights ago, sitting right about
there was my sister-in-law whose
brother was a United States Army vet-
eran and a good friend of mine who one
day messed up his knee. He had sur-
gery, and the next thing you know, he
was addicted to pain killers, opioids.
Opioids led to heroin, and then, unable
to come off heroin, it led to him com-
mitting suicide 3 years ago.
This is a real problem. If we were
able to cut down only a small percent-
age of the drugs, and if we were able to
reduce only a small percentage of the
murders, the sexual assaults, and the
human trafficking, my question is:
Would a border structure still not be
worth it?
To me, that is a very commonsense
question. How much does it need to be
reduced before it is relevant to all of
us?
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Mississippi (Mr. GUEST), our next
speaker this afternoon who is a solid
new Member, a former district attor-
ney from the State of Mississippi who
is already serving on the Foreign Af-
fairs Committee and Homeland Secu-
rity Committee.
MR. GUEST. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
As a former district attorney, I have
seen firsthand how damaging narcotics
and synthetic drugs can be to individ-
uals, families, and our communities.
In 2017, drug overdoses killed 72,000
Americans, more than car crashes and
gun violence combined. The most dan-
gerous of these drugs, fentanyl, is 50
times more potent than heroin and ac-
counted for almost twice the number of
fatal overdoses in 2017.
Last year, law enforcement officers
in Mississippi seized more than 800,000
dosage units of fentanyl. The fentanyl
seized was enough to kill nearly 14 per-
cent of the population of Mississippi.
This lethal narcotic is smuggled into
our country by transnational criminal
organizations or drug cartels. Just last
month, Federal law enforcement offi-
cials seized more than 250 pounds of
fentanyl at the Nogales port of entry
on the United States-Mexico border.
As we continue to aggressively police
our points of entry, drug cartels will
attempt to gain access through the
areas of the border that are not se-
cured, forcing us to devote manpower
to police these unsecured sections of
our border.
It is apparent that drug cartels want
to profit from the addiction and the de-
struction that these drugs have on
American lives. This Congress has not
only the opportunity but also the duty
to act, to help limit the flow of drugs
into the country and to protect our
citizens by securing our southwest bor-
der.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Representative GUEST for his com-
ments. I appreciate his passion in shar-
ing some of the firsthand experiences
that he is seeing in the great State of
Mississippi.
Our next two speakers are from bor-
der States that certainly have a per-
spective on what is going on as we see
even right now.
One is an accomplished medical doc-
tor who served and practiced there in
the State of Texas for nearly three dec-
ades. He is not one of the louder Mem-
bers, but he is often considered one of
our more effective Members.
It is my privilege to yield to the gen-
tleman from Texas, Representative MI-
CHAEL BURGESS.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from North Carolina for
yielding.
Let me just say, I spent the last sev-
eral hours in a hearing in the Energy
and Commerce Committee, a hearing
called by the Democrats on the Over-
sight and Investigations Sub-
committee. The hearing was evaluating
the failures of the Trump administra-
tion on the child separation policy.
Let me just share with you some of
the statements of the witnesses. These
were pediatricians. These were ACLU
lawyers. Statements like the Trump
administration policy was inten-
tionally hurtful, that it was an incred-
ibly difficult position that people were
in, that parents have a right to keep
their children safe, and that this was
nothing more than government-sanc-
tioned child endangerment.
Mr. Speaker, I want to share a story
with you. Just like Mr. WALKER, I had
a guest here at the State of the Union
the other night when the President was
here. My guest was Chris from Keller,
Texas, and he sat up in the gallery
right behind us here.
I met Chris probably a year and a
half to 2 years ago. He came to see me
one day, brought in, actually, by his
mother. His mother was concerned be-
cause he had suffered an injustice in
his life, and he was upset, and he
couldn’t get over it. He just needed to
talk to someone, and a Member of Con-
gress is the last person I can think of
to talk to, but maybe it can help.
So Chris told me his story. I prac-
ticed medicine for 25 years, and I heard
some sad stories. I have been in Con-
gress for 15 years, and I have heard
some sad stories. But I will tell you,
this was the saddest story that I can
recall ever having heard.
Chris was serving his country in Iraq.
In fact, he was in Iraq in 2005 when
they had the big election where every-
one was going down the road with an
ink-stained thumb, and he helped make
that happen. He helped pull that off.
Chris continued his service in various
forms and was in Iraq when he got word
that his wife was ill. His wife was, as it
turns out, very, very ill, and he had to
come home. He cared for her for the
last few months of her life before she
succumbed to breast cancer.
b 1730
He said he made her a promise right
at the end of that illness that he would
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.089 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1435
February 7, 2019
always, always, always take care of
their daughter. Now Chris is a single
dad. He has got an only child. The child
was 12, 13 years old, the light of his
life. Everything in Chris’s life was
wrapped up in his daughter.
His daughter came home one day and
said she wanted to go spend the night
at a friend’s house, and Chris said no.
She said: Please, Daddy, you never
let me do anything. Please let me go.
After multiple entreaties, Chris
agreed. She could go over to this
friend’s house and spend the night.
At some point during the evening,
the girls went out to a convenience
store that was across the street. She
drops her cellphone, goes back to re-
trieve it, and she was hit by a car.
There were a number of cars coming
down the street at that point. One was
going faster than the others. All of the
other cars stopped, but the car that hit
Chrishia inflicted substantial injury
upon her.
The driver of that vehicle did stop,
and the police were called. The driver
of that vehicle was in the country
without the benefit of citizenship. So
the driver of that car was taken down
to the police station. Drug and alcohol
tests were administered. A search of
the records revealed a previous infrac-
tion with Customs and Border Patrol
or Immigration and Customs Enforce-
ment. He had come into the country il-
legally before, so there was that. He
had speeding tickets, and he had been
arrested for driving without a license.
In fact, this time the only citation that
he received was driving without a li-
cense, and he was released after 35 min-
utes.
Chris came in to see me several
months later, literally at the end of his
rope. I will never forget as he told me
this story and he looked at me with
tears in his eyes.
He said: Congressman, I put on the
uniform of my country. I served my
country. I did my job. Mr. Congress-
man, if you had been doing your job,
my daughter would be here today.
I have to tell you, as I was walking
Chris back to where he could get a cab
to his hotel after the State of the
Union Address—we have actually cor-
responded on a fairly regular basis, and
he is a very likeable individual—as we
walked off the Hill to get to where he
could catch a cab beyond the Capitol
Police barrier, he said: I really have en-
joyed meeting you, Congressman. You
have been great to me.
I said: Chris, I would give anything if
we had never met.
This is not a manufactured crisis.
This is a real crisis affecting our citi-
zens and our constituents. The people
on the panel today were very concerned
about the Trump administration’s pol-
icy from last June. But this is not a
new deal. There has been a problem on
our Texas border, particularly in the
lower Rio Grande sector for years. The
previous administration had problems.
The Clinton administration had prob-
lems. The Carter administration had
problems. It is a difficult problem, and
it does need to be solved.
President Trump has outlined a rea-
sonable approach that, yes, includes
sensors; yes, includes increased per-
sonnel; yes, includes all-weather roads
in areas; and, yes, it does include a bar-
rier. Without that, there cannot be suc-
cess in securing our southern border,
and as a consequence, our citizens can-
not be safe and secure in their homes.
I thank the gentleman for providing
the time tonight and leading this hour.
I hope Chris does get some measure
of peace eventually, but, clearly, this is
a problem that has affected a great
many lives of people in our districts. I
think we each can find someone in our
district who has suffered from a similar
loss.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I will not
soon forget those lines: I did my job
putting on my uniform every day. Con-
gressman, if you had been doing your
job, my daughter would be here today.
I hope that message resonates in all
434 Members who are currently in the
House.
Mr. Speaker, if Congressmen and
Congresswomen would do their job,
these children, these daughters, these
sons, these mothers, and these wives
and husbands would still be here today.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Arizona (Mr. BIGGS). ANDY BIGGS
is one of the truth tellers in this
House. He is from Arizona’s Fifth Dis-
trict. He is a retired attorney who also
served in the Arizona legislature for 14
years, and he is a bold voice in the
United States House.
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Congressman WALKER for holding this
Special Order.
Mr. Speaker, I want you to know I
continue to be astonished that our
Democratic Members—our colleagues—
turned a blind eye to what is happening
in this country because of what is
going on on the border.
Unlike many in Congress, I have been
down to the border multiple times. I
grew up just a number of miles—60, 70
miles—from the border myself. I have
been down there many times. A couple
of weeks ago I took eight Congressmen
with me. We toured the border. We met
with multiple ranchers, and their story
is very similar. We got to talk to one
guy—four home invasions, more than
15 burglaries, endless vandalism, and
trespassing daily. He was not unique.
Another family has set up their own
cameras and sensors so they can see.
We watched them. We watched the peo-
ple coming across. This is hour after
hour of footage. Do you know what?
These were young men coming across
with carpet slippers so you couldn’t see
their footprints. I didn’t see the moms
and children coming across. I saw the
young men carrying bundles of drugs
across.
On Monday the ‘‘Washington Exam-
iner’’ published an article detailing the
fear of border residents living in New
Mexico. They, like those in Arizona,
Texas, and California have been bur-
glarized. They find groups of illegal
aliens squatting in their barns with
bundles of drugs on their land. But
they won’t call the authorities because
they fear retaliation from drug cartels.
Many of the people we met with said:
we will meet with you on condition
that you don’t reveal us meeting to the
press because every time the press re-
veals something, we are retaliated
against by drug cartels.
Yesterday at the end of a Judiciary
Committee hearing about gun violence,
after going on a screed—a demagogic
tirade—about the importance of pro-
tecting every life, this Member said
that every life is valuable. I agree with
that. But she is valuing some over oth-
ers.
Why wouldn’t she focus on policies
that would help the lives of all Ameri-
cans through border security?
In 2015, a young man from my Con-
gressional District, Grant Ronnebeck,
was shot and killed by an illegal alien.
Not only should that murderer not
have been in possession of a firearm, he
shouldn’t have even been in the coun-
try. He had been deported before, yet
he comes back because the border is
porous.
For some reason, no Democrat is
willing to ensure that criminally vio-
lent aliens like Grant’s killer aren’t re-
leased back into our community. I in-
troduced a bill called Grant’s Law to
ensure no criminal alien can be re-
leased from custody. I can’t get a sin-
gle cosponsor from the other side of the
aisle.
Two weeks ago 250 pounds of fentanyl
and 400 pounds of additional drugs were
interdicted in Nogales. That is the
number one sector for drug seizures in
this country. Forty percent of all drugs
that are interdicted are in the Tucson
sector. Just today, in the Ajo region,
300 people crossed—today—2 hours ago.
I am told by experts that we only
interdict 15 percent of dangerous drugs
and fewer than 50 percent of the people
who are crossing.
Mr. Speaker, I call out for my col-
leagues across the aisle: Help us. Help
this country. I am telling you: Walls
work. We have to stand with the Presi-
dent.
I stand with the President. I stand
with the people of America. I stand
with people in my district. I stand with
the people who believe and understand
that we have to get border security and
the most foundational and funda-
mental thing we can do is build a wall.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, we ac-
knowledge there are problems with
ports of entry. We have no problem in
increasing training or border agents.
We are not opposed to that at all. What
we don’t understand is why there is not
an all-of-the-above approach, a com-
monsense approach that would allow us
to continue to reduce and sometimes
eliminate some of the issues that we
are seeing.
My next speaker is a classmate of
mine serving faithfully on the Agri-
culture and the Education and Labor
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.092 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1436 February 7, 2019
Committees. He is a business owner
who is responsible for creating thou-
sands of jobs from the land that he
comes from, Augusta, Georgia, rep-
resenting Georgia’s 12th District.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Georgia (Mr. ALLEN).
Mr. ALLEN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Congressman WALKER for his work here
today and telling the story.
We have heard so many stories about
people who have been affected by this
problem at our southern border.
My friends and colleagues continue
to fight to resolve the crisis at our
southern border, end illegal immigra-
tion, and save innocent American lives.
I would like to share the story of
Eliud Montoya, a naturalized American
citizen, a hard worker, and a Georgia
resident. He was violently shot and
killed in 2017 at the hands of three ille-
gal immigrants living just south of
Georgia’s 12th District.
Mr. Montoya, who worked for a tree
service company, reported some sus-
picious activity to the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission alleging
that illegal workers were being em-
ployed as a part of a scheme to defraud
that company. By doing his duty and
reporting this illegal activity to the
proper authorities, Mr. Montoya was
senselessly murdered by illegal immi-
grants who reportedly collected more
than $3.5 million of illegal profits.
Mr. Speaker, this is a very real crisis
we are facing at our southern border,
and we simply cannot allow lawless-
ness to consume this nation.
In his State of the Union on Tuesday,
President Trump said it best: ‘‘The
lawless state of our southern border is
a threat to the safety, security, and fi-
nancial well-being of all Americans. We
have a moral duty to create an immi-
gration system that protects the lives
and jobs of our citizens.’’
Think about this, if you put in the
most advanced security system in your
home, would you take down the front
door?
I am 100 percent with the President.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I appre-
ciate the gentleman’s sincere words.
Mr. Speaker, one of my friends is an-
other Member from Georgia who serves
on the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, actually owns Carter’s Phar-
macy, a pharmacist by nature, and ac-
tually became a mayor and was a gen-
eral assembly member. He is one of the
hardest working guys in this House. It
is my privilege to acknowledge Rep-
resentative BUDDY CARTER from Geor-
gia’s First.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Georgia (Mr. CARTER).
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss
an important topic to our Nation’s
homeland security, the crisis at our
southern border. And it is, indeed, a
crisis.
In its most simple form, it is para-
mount that we know who is coming in
and out of our country in order to keep
our families and our fellow citizens
safe. However, it is impossible to do so
when individuals are traversing across
our border avoiding checkpoints and
bypassing our immigration laws.
Mr. Speaker, I have been to our bor-
der. I served on the Homeland Security
Committee my first session here. We
took a trip to the border. We went to
California. It was the first time I had
ever been to California. We went to San
Diego. In San Diego you need a barrier,
you need a wall, and you need a fence.
You have got 3 million people in San
Diego County, 3 million people in Ti-
juana separated by a highway. It
makes perfect sense to have a barrier
there, a fence.
Then we went to Arizona, rugged ter-
rain, mountainous terrain. There you
need technology, you need boots on the
ground, you need blimps, and you need
drones, all of those things. When we
were in Arizona, we visited a farmer, a
rancher there, who showed us an area
where they had a fence. In that area
where they had that fence, they had
cut it off. It was a 10-foot fence, and
they cut it off at 5 foot, put ramps on
it, and they had driven a truck over it.
You have to have a fence, and you
have to have technology.
We went to McAllen, Texas. It was
the first time I had ever been to that
part of Texas. We went to the Rio
Grande River. Now, I grew up in south
Georgia; to me the Rio Grande River
was this giant river that you saw in a
John Wayne movie. It is anything but.
It is a narrow, winding river that in
some areas is knee deep. People walk
across it. You are going to have to
have barriers in some of those areas.
You are going to have to have boots on
the ground. You are going to have to
have technology, blimps and drones, all
of those things.
What we are talking about is secur-
ing our borders. Everybody wants to
say: oh, he wants to build a wall.
Yes, you need a wall in certain areas,
and you need a barrier. But you need
technology. But most importantly you
need security.
My colleagues on the other side of
the aisle want to deny the President
the ability to deliver on a campaign
promise. That is not what this is about.
This is about securing our borders. We
need to focus. We need to focus about
what we are talking about here. This is
real. This is serious.
Let me tell you how serious it is. I
have seen examples of it. I have seen
examples that it creates in my own dis-
trict, my own congressional district in
coastal Georgia.
b 1745
Just over a month ago, three illegal
immigrants were charged with con-
spiracy to murder a legal, naturalized
citizen who threatened to turn them
in.
Now, folks, if you want to know how
people feel about illegal immigration,
ask someone who has become a citizen,
who has gone through the process.
Don’t ask me; ask them. Ask them
what they think.
I guarantee you, they are going to be
opposed to it. They did it the right
way. And we invite them here. We need
them here. We want them here. But
they did it the right way. They are as
much opposed to it, they are as much
offended by it as anyone.
It is stories like these that inspired
me to introduce H.R. 6333, the Tax
Identity Protection Act, in the 115th
Congress. The Treasury Department’s
inspector general noted that up to 1.4
million illegal immigrants could be
fraudulently using legal citizens’ So-
cial Security numbers, but the IRS re-
fuses to do anything about this, stating
that they can’t accurately determine
which numbers are mistakes and which
are fraud.
So I introduced the Tax Identity Pro-
tection Act. It would require the IRS
to find ways to better determine illegal
immigrants using stolen Social Secu-
rity numbers. I will be reintroducing
that bill shortly in the 116th Congress,
and I hope that my colleagues will sup-
port this legislation that strengthens
our national security and protects our
personal identities.
Immigration is important. It is im-
portant to the history, the culture, and
the progress of our country, but it is
past time for us to fix our broken im-
migration system and ensure that peo-
ple seeking a better life in America are
coming through the lawful channels.
I want to thank my colleagues for
holding this important and timely Spe-
cial Order today.
Folks, this is serious. This is impor-
tant. We need to focus, keep our eye on
the ball here.
Mr. WALKER. I appreciate Rep-
resentative CARTER’s passion on this
issue and laying out, really, a heartfelt
case why border security is so impor-
tant.
So many times we hear the argument
that there are as many and, in some
places, even a higher percentage of as-
saults or crimes, murders, et cetera, in
communities with American citizens as
there are with some of the illegal im-
migrants.
My question is: Does that make it
okay? See, that is the thing that we
have to take a look at from a common-
sense perspective is that, when we do
begin to reduce this, it allows us to
have the resources to be able to con-
centrate on some of the areas as well.
A class member from Arkansas has
quite a distinguished history. Prior to
his congressional service, Mr. HILL was
a commercial banker and an invest-
ment manager for two decades. But,
not only that, President George H.W.
Bush appointed Mr. HILL to be Execu-
tive Secretary to the President’s Eco-
nomic Policy Council, where he coordi-
nated all White House economic policy.
He does a great job and works hard on
our Financial Services Committee as
well.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Arkansas (Mr. HILL), my friend
from Arkansas’ Second District.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.093 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1437
February 7, 2019
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my friend from North Carolina
and appreciate his distinguished serv-
ice on behalf of the citizens of North
Carolina, his leadership of our Repub-
lican Study Committee in the last Con-
gress, and his leadership as our Con-
ference leader for this Congress. And I
greatly appreciate his personal engage-
ment to help continue this conversa-
tion with the American people about
the need for enhanced security along
our southwest border.
Like my colleagues you have heard
from, I have been to the southwest bor-
der four times as a Member of Con-
gress. I worked in Texas for nearly a
decade, so I am very familiar with the
southwest border in Texas. But, as a
Congressman, I have gone four times to
get at the root of what is the balance
that we want between border fencing,
barrier, the use of technology, screen-
ing technology, enhancements at our
ports of entry, and the manpower issue.
Mr. Speaker, we need all of that, and
that is, in fact, what we have produced
time and time again on the floor. Just
in the last year, Mr. Speaker, we have
proposed these kinds of commonsense
border security issues, and we have not
gotten sufficient votes to pass them.
So this is why we find ourselves hear-
ing from the Border Patrol and our of-
ficials at Homeland Security that we
need additional barrier construction,
additional boots on the ground, new
judges, additional screening tech-
nology—all of the things I hear about
from county judges, county sheriffs,
Federal law enforcement—to make our
border, in fact, safe.
But tonight I want to reflect on the
impact in my home State of Arkansas.
I see it every day. I have two young
adults now, Mr. Speaker, a 19-year-old
and a 22-year-old.
When I was in high school, I didn’t
know anybody who had died of a drug
overdose. I didn’t know anyone who
had committed suicide among my peers
in my high school. And I am broken-
hearted tonight, Mr. Speaker, to report
that my kids and their age group have
seen deaths from deadly addiction to
these drugs that are coming over our
border, our southwest border. It breaks
my heart to see them at funerals when
they should be at soccer games.
The opioid crisis has killed more
than 100 Americans a day and caused
45,000 deaths last year, alone, almost as
many as we lost in all of the Vietnam
conflict. A third of these deaths were
attributable to fentanyl, much of
which is manufactured in China.
This Congress, bipartisan, last year,
decided to get screening equipment to
our postal service to interdict and try
to stop fentanyl. Senator COTTON and I
want to increase criminal penalties for
fentanyl possession and dealing be-
cause, Mr. Speaker, in this small
Sweet’N Low packet that we are all fa-
miliar with, 1 gram has enough—if it
were fentanyl—to kill 500 Americans.
That is what confronts our kids as it is
laced into heroin, pressed into pills,
soaked into marijuana on the streets of
our country, coming across the south-
west border.
So my kids have suffered from it. I
have watched their faces. I have
hugged a lot of moms. And whenever I
think of this issue, I think about Nate
Gordon, who lost his life, whose mom I
visit with and who has helped me in my
roundtables on helping me cope with
how to talk to our parents about this
deadly addiction that has overtaken
our country.
Nate was a kid who got addicted, and
he tried to beat it. And he beat it. And
then, one night, it took his life.
His mom doesn’t have her son any-
more, but she has dedicated her life to
helping parents to educate kids, to get
people in treatment. And that is what
we need. We need an entire community
to bond with this Congress to fight
drug addiction.
I spoke to our attorney general, my
friend from North Carolina, and she
told me that over 1,000 illegals had
been arrested in Arkansas recently,
tens of thousands of pills, and over
1,000 pounds of drugs.
So this is something that challenges
our whole country, and we have to
work together. I commend our Presi-
dent for keeping it at the forefront of
the American people, and I commend
Mr. WALKER for inviting us here to
visit about it tonight.
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, I appre-
ciate the gentleman’s work and his
friendship in this House as well.
A new Member from Texas, someone
who represents the southwest Texas
area, I believe, represents portions of
Austin, Texas, as well, someone who is
new but no less experienced, a former
first assistant attorney general and a
former Federal prosecutor, Mr. Speak-
er, I yield to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. ROY).
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman from North Carolina for
yielding time, and I thank him for his
leadership on this important issue.
We are here because we are dis-
cussing the importance of border secu-
rity for the United States of America,
a question of our sovereignty, the basic
duty of a sovereign nation to secure its
borders.
I had the great privilege of spending
some time with the men and women of
the Border Patrol in the Rio Grande
Valley sector in Texas this past week—
2 days—with my fellow Texas freshman
Congressman DAN CRENSHAW. What I
saw was alarming.
What we learned from Border Patrol
is that there will be upwards of 400,000
people crossing the border through the
Rio Grande Valley sector this year
alone. And of that 400,000 people, 200,000
of them, give or take, won’t even be ap-
prehended because the men and women
of the Border Patrol don’t have the
tools they need, don’t have the fencing
and the barriers they need, don’t have
the ability to drive a vehicle parallel—
lateral—to the Rio Grande River, don’t
have the radio signal to be able to com-
municate on the border.
We found that, of the 200,000 people
who will be apprehended, 90 percent of
them will be captured and released be-
cause we have judicially mandated cap-
ture and release today. We have judges
who have told us that we have got to
capture people and then release them
back out into our communities without
going through the proper processes to
truly vet asylum and truly vet what we
are dealing with. The result of that
brings tragic consequences.
The Gulf Cartel in Mexico will make
$130 million this year—$130 million—
trafficking human beings across the
Rio Grande Valley sector. They are in-
tegrated with FARC. They are inte-
grated with terrorist networks. They
have operational control of our border
along Texas, and we are just acting
like there is nothing to see.
The Speaker of the House had us in
session for less than 48 hours last week
with a handful of show votes. What do
we have this week? More votes just
that are kind of plodding along, sus-
pension votes.
We are not having a robust debate.
This Chamber is virtually empty. We
are not having a robust debate about
our border and our national security
and about the lives of American citi-
zens and the lives of the migrants who
seek to come here.
There are migrants today who are en-
dangered and enslaved to the cartels.
There were 54 people found in a stash
house last Friday when I was with Bor-
der Patrol, in a house in Houston, who
are now being held hostage by cartels
to pay their money back because the
cartels brought them into the United
States.
How is that compassion? How is that
somehow beneficial to migrants?
That is the truth. Those are the facts
when we talk to our men and women in
the Border Patrol.
Let’s talk about the women, the
young girls, who are abused on the
path. I was on the Rio Grande River,
and I spoke to a 10-year-old and an 11-
year-old girl. My son Charlie is going
to turn 10 this year. These girls were
traveling with no parents. They want
to have a better life.
I want to welcome folks to the
United States of America, but you have
got to have legal channels to make it
work, both for our safety and the safe-
ty of the migrants who come here.
It is extraordinary that we are even
having this debate. I cannot believe
that this body, the people’s House, is
ignoring this great tragedy that is
going on on our southwest border, with
real human lives.
And it is not just the migrants. It is
American citizens like Jared Vargas in
San Antonio, Texas, which I represent
and I am proud to represent. Jared lost
his life last July at the hands of some-
body here illegally. His beautiful mom,
Lori, is still brokenhearted, having lost
her wonderful son. His twin brother,
who goes to college in Kerrville, in my
district, lost his twin brother; and his
sister lost her brother because an ille-
gal immigrant who was here, who was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:32 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.095 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1438 February 7, 2019
caught, released, caught, released,
stopped by law enforcement, let go, 2
days later murdered Jared Vargas.
How can we allow this to happen in
the greatest country and the most pow-
erful nation the world has ever known?
How can we allow American citizens to
die at the hands of illegal immigrants
who are here who shouldn’t be here,
who have broken our laws previously?
How can we allow American citizens to
die at the hands of the terrorists who
are moving drugs into and out of our
country through cartels, die because of
dangerous fentanyl and dangerous her-
oin that are coming across our borders
at the ports of entry and, yes, between
the ports of entry, which the data fully
backs up?
It is not just coming through the
ports of entry. It is, in fact, coming
across on loads across the Rio Grande
River, which is not policed.
We have a duty to defend our border.
One last point: Fencing, walls work.
In the Rio Grande Valley sector, in the
eastern section next to the Gulf of
Mexico, there is 35 miles of fencing. In
the western section, in McAllen, there
is far less fencing and far fewer roads.
Ninety-four percent of the traffic
comes through the McAllen portion of
the Rio Grande Valley sector.
We have a duty to defend our borders.
American citizens like Jared Vargas,
who lost his life, and the Vargas fam-
ily, who is now without their family
member, and the United States of
America deserve better. The migrants
who seek to come here deserve better.
b 1800
Mr. WALKER. Mr. Speaker, this
evening, we have heard from Members
across the country about the dev-
astating toll illegal immigration has
had on American families and Amer-
ican workers. The Democrats’ divisive
and disconnected immigration agenda
has real consequences and leads to real
victims.
What makes this such a calamity is
not only the cost to Americans that we
have talked about tonight, but the fact
that these tragedies are completely
avoidable if Congress, as we heard ear-
lier, would do its job and secure the
border.
I want to tell you about Miss Sharon
Gross from my district in North Caro-
lina. Just over a year ago, Sharon had
finished a 5-mile bike ride with her 18-
year-old daughter in Creekside Park,
where I have been, in Archdale, North
Carolina. They began their trip home
in ‘‘Roxie,’’ the vehicle her daughter
received for her 16th birthday.
As her daughter was driving home,
she saw a white SUV heading the oppo-
site direction and beginning to swerve
from the outer lane. The vehicle hit
them head-on. Sharon described the
next moment: ‘‘The next thing I re-
member was the sound of the metal
crashing and twisting in front of us. I
vaguely remember everyone running to
us and telling us to get out because the
car was about to explode. I couldn’t get
out and could barely breathe.’’
Sharon thanks God that her daughter
was largely unharmed, but Sharon suf-
fered five broken bones in her back and
a severely broken sternum, leaving a
large hole in her chest. She now has
chronic pain that impacts her daily
life.
The driver of the white SUV was a
man by the name of Mr. Rodriguez. He
had a blood alcohol concentration of
.20, 21⁄2 times the legal limit in North
Carolina.
Mr. Rodriguez is in our country ille-
gally. He did not own the vehicle he
was driving, nor did he even have a
driver’s license, and this was his third
drunk driving charge. He then served
only 11 months in prison and has now
been released.
Mr. Rodriguez’s time in prison may
have come to an end, but the physical,
mental, and emotional scars that Shar-
on has, well, they will never fade. Mak-
ing matters worse, Mr. Rodriguez was
uninsured, leaving thousands of dollars
in medical bills, adding to the emo-
tional and physical and now financial
pain for Sharon and her family.
Sharon stated: ‘‘It is very difficult
for me to have all this constant pain
and then deal with all the emotions I
am feeling about someone who comes
into our country illegally and gets a
little pat on the hand when he breaks
all our laws.’’ She said: ‘‘To say my life
was shattered is an understatement.’’
You see, we can do better. We must
do better for Sharon and for all Ameri-
cans who have been impacted by illegal
immigration. That means an all-of-the-
above approach to border security, in-
cluding construction of additional
physical structures and barriers. Bor-
der security not only helps keep our
families safe, but it also continues the
American tradition of being a wel-
coming Nation.
Many of us are proud of our legal im-
migrant heritage. Though it goes
underreported, America has the most
generous legal system in the world.
Think about it. We proudly welcome 1
million legal immigrants into our
country every single year.
In fact, just last year, the first full
year of the Trump administration in
2017, the number was 1,127,167 new citi-
zens whom we welcomed. These are
people from all over the world who
have raised their right hand, promising
to obey the laws of our land and con-
tribute to our blessed Nation.
As President Trump said on this very
floor just 2 days ago: ‘‘Legal immi-
grants enrich our Nation and strength-
en our society in countless ways. I
want people to come into our country
. . . but they have to come in legally.’’
You see, in America, we can do both.
We can continue to be the beacon of
hope throughout the world, and we can
do much better in protecting the Amer-
ican people. After all, it is the first
oath we take.
But the clock is ticking. We face an-
other impasse this week. Will our
Democratic colleagues support com-
monsense policies to end this crisis, or
will they continue to disengage on so-
lutions, suggesting ideas like abol-
ishing ICE and stopping additional
funding for the Department of Home-
land Security?
It is time to put productivity over
personality and people over politics.
Anything less would be immoral.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
GUN VIOLENCE PREVENTION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. PORTER) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
majority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the subject of my
Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
the gentleman from Rhode Island (Mr.
CICILLINE), my friend and a member of
the Judiciary Committee, a leader in
responding to the American people who
broadly support gun violence preven-
tion.
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding, and I
particularly thank the gentlewoman
for her leadership on this issue and for
organizing today’s Special Order hour.
One of the great blessings of being in
the majority is wonderful new col-
leagues who are bringing their incred-
ible intellect and passion and commit-
ment to the issues facing the American
people, and the gentlewoman from
California is obviously a magnificent
example of that, so I thank her for the
courtesy.
Mr. Speaker, the numbers speak for
themselves. On average, 100 Americans
are murdered with firearms every day.
Three hundred more are shot and
wounded.
In 2017, the number of gun deaths in
this country hit 40,000, the highest
level in 20 years, according to the Cen-
ters for Disease Control. Globally, we
have the highest rate of gun violence of
any developed Nation on Earth.
We have a gun violence epidemic in
this country.
The U.S. is now the world leader in
child gun deaths, with death by gun-
shot being the second highest cause of
death among children.
This is a public health crisis.
People are being killed at schools, at
houses of worship, in restaurants, at
homes, and everywhere in between.
There is no place safe from the threat
of gun violence in this country.
We have seen it at the Sandy Hook
Elementary School and Marjory
Stoneman Douglas High School; at
houses of worship in Charleston, Oak
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:13 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.097 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1439
February 7, 2019
Creek, Sutherland Springs, and Pitts-
burgh; at a nightclub in Orlando, a
movie theater in Aurora, and a country
music concert in Las Vegas.
But under GOP control for the last 8
years, Congress did nothing. We had
moments of silence for 30 minutes. We
stood. We said nothing and did nothing.
Fortunately, Mr. Speaker, this is
about to change. Yesterday, the House
Judiciary Committee held its first
hearing on gun violence prevention in
nearly a decade. The room was filled
with parents who lost their children
and young people who lost their friends
to gun violence.
They are determined to make sure
that no one else has to live through
such senseless tragedies. Particularly
the young people, whose passion and
commitment and dedication to making
sure that we do something to reduce
gun violence in this country, have
changed the conversation in America.
It was a great pleasure to have the op-
portunity to thank these young people,
because their voices are making a dif-
ference.
I used my 5 minutes at the hearing in
part to apologize to these young peo-
ple, because we have failed them. The
adults in this country and the adults in
this Congress have failed them.
They are asking us to do our jobs at
the very basic minimum: Keep them
safe. Allow them to lead their lives and
reach their full potential.
I am very proud that I am intro-
ducing a number of bills that will re-
duce gun violence in this country—a
bill to ban assault weapons, a bill to
ban dangerous bump stocks and 3D-
printed guns.
I will also be introducing a bill to im-
prove the background check system by
requiring States to establish better re-
porting systems for mental health pro-
fessionals to identify individuals who
pose a risk to themselves or others if
they have a gun.
I plan to introduce a bill that will re-
quire notification to law enforcement
if a prohibited purchaser buys or at-
tempts to buy a gun.
Mr. Speaker, there are dozens of com-
monsense proposals that will be intro-
duced in this Congress. Sadly, almost
all of them will be introduced by
Democrats. I hope we can have some
bipartisan support on this, because the
American people want us to do some-
thing before another horrible tragedy
occurs and before another deadly weap-
on ends up in the wrong hands.
There are many good ideas on how to
do it. Our Republican colleagues, as I
know the gentlewoman from California
will agree, always say there isn’t one
bill that will stop every instance of gun
violence, and so, they argue, we
shouldn’t do anything, because we
can’t stop it all. Of course, that is a ri-
diculous argument against taking ac-
tion, because there is no question that
we can take action on a number of bills
that, taken together, will substantially
reduce gun violence in this country.
We have the responsibility to do it.
The American people are demanding
that we do it. We will take up a bill to
close the background check loophole
that allows nearly 22 percent of guns
sold in this country to happen without
a background check.
We are going to take up legislation
to fix the background check system
and make certain that all sales of guns
undergo a background check, so we can
make sure criminals don’t have access
to firearms.
That is just the beginning. That is
the first thing we will do. We are going
to move forward on a whole series of
commonsense proposals that will help
stop the carnage being caused by gun
violence in this country.
With that, Mr. Speaker, I will yield
back to the gentlewoman and again
thank her for her leadership and ac-
commodation this evening. I thank her
for organizing this very important Spe-
cial Order hour to continue to raise
this issue and demonstrate to the
American people that we are com-
mitted to getting something done to
reduce gun violence in this country to
protect our constituents who sent us
here to do just that.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Mr. CICILLINE for his words and his pas-
sion and his leadership on this issue.
As he said, one of the most basic
functions of our government doing our
jobs is to keep American families safe
and secure. For too long, Congress has
put fealty to the special interest of the
gun lobby ahead of our safety.
Mr. Speaker, the prevalence of gun
violence in our country is horrifying.
For 15- to 24-year-olds, the gun murder
rate here in America is 49 times higher
than our peer nations. Our children and
my children go to school with the fear
that their school, that their classroom,
could be the next mass shooting site.
Guns are the second leading cause of
death for our American children and
teens. Nearly 1,700 children are killed
by guns each year. Our country’s gun
violence epidemic is not normal. While
we have about 5 percent of the world’s
population, we have about 15 percent of
noncombat-related gun violence.
The fact is that no other country on
this planet even remotely comes close
to ours on the problem of gun violence.
It has been almost a year since the
Parkland school shooting and more
than 6 years since the Sandy Hook
shooting. And until this Congress,
there has not been any change coming
out of Washington.
Yesterday, we took an important
first step. As my colleague, Mr.
CICILLINE, recognized, the House held
its first hearing in 8 years on taking
action to prevent gun violence in
America. It is a shame, Mr. Speaker,
that it took 8 years to hold that hear-
ing.
Next week will be the markup of his-
toric legislation, H.R. 8, the bipartisan
background check bill. Now more than
ever, we need to insist that our col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
stand up to the gun lobby and stand up
to join in the fight to end gun violence.
Six of the deadliest mass shootings in
our Nation’s entire history happened in
the last decade, a decade in which Con-
gress did nothing to reduce preventable
gun deaths.
We cannot continue, we should not
continue, to ignore the demands of
mothers, of grandmothers, of grand-
parents, of teachers, of nurses, of emer-
gency room physicians who are con-
cerned, like all of us, about violent gun
deaths and about children being killed
in their schools and in their commu-
nities.
We need to be leaders, not shills for
the gun lobby, not cowards afraid of
losing an A rating. Our children de-
serve courage. They deserve the cour-
age of this Congress. Our children de-
serve leaders who will fight to ensure
that families are safe at school, at
movie theaters, at concerts.
I will not be bought, and I will not be
silenced by the gun lobby or by the
President.
b 1815
The midterm elections made clear
that voters want lawmakers to put the
safety of our children and our families
first. We must end the insidious buying
off of politicians by the gun lobby.
Americans overwhelmingly support
commonsense gun safety reforms like
H.R. 8, which implements mandatory
background checks on all gun sales and
transfers. Ninety-seven percent of
Americans want laws like this imple-
mented.
Since the Brady Bill was passed 25
years ago, over 3 million attempts to
purchase firearms have been blocked
because of background checks. Yet, one
out of five guns is still sold without a
background check.
We also need commitment and action
by Congress to reinstate CDC, Centers
for Disease Control, funding to study
how best to prevent gun violence. More
than three-quarters of Americans sup-
port the CDC conducting research on
gun violence as a public health issue.
Yet, for decades, Republicans in Con-
gress have prevented us from studying
the factors that contribute to acci-
dental deaths, suicides, and homicide
by firearms. And without that informa-
tion, without that research, we cannot
have a full understanding of how to ex-
ercise our duty to keep American fami-
lies safe and to prevent unnecessary
loss of life.
These are not radical ideas. They are
commonsense American solutions that
are being held hostage by the gun
lobby.
My home, Orange County, has made
its feelings heard time and again, that
it wants to strengthen gun violence
prevention laws. Keeping our families
safe is at the heart of our values.
I am particularly inspired by the ad-
vocacy of those in our community who
have experienced loss and suffering
from gun violence and, yet, found the
strength to dedicate their lives to mak-
ing sure that others don’t experience
similar tragedies.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:13 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.099 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1440 February 7, 2019
I would like to highlight the story of
one such couple, Mary Leigh and Char-
lie Blek, from Orange County, Cali-
fornia. These loving parents led the
fight in my district and in California,
for commonsense gun legislation.
Mary Leigh and Charlie’s son, Mat-
thew, was only 21 years old when he
was shot and killed. He was a victim of
an armed robbery by teens using a
small handgun, also known as a ‘‘Sat-
urday Night Special’’ or a ‘‘junk gun.’’
In memory of their son, the Bleks
founded the Orange County Citizens for
the Prevention of Gun Violence in 1995.
For five long, hard-fought years, they
advocated for safety regulations that
would rid California of the type of gun
that killed their son, and they suc-
ceeded.
California used to produce 80 percent
of the junk guns for the Nation. Cali-
fornia no longer produces these junk
guns, and has enacted safety standards
for handguns that are working to re-
duce gun violence deaths.
Still today, the Bleks are vigilant in
preventing the gun lobby from finding
new ways to sell dangerous handguns
in California. They now lead the Or-
ange County Chapter of the Brady
Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence,
and I am personally very grateful for
their efforts, their leadership, and their
courage.
No family should ever have to go
through what the Bleks suffered, but
too many in our own communities
have. Since the beginning of 2014, in
California, over 14,000 people, 14,000
people, including 120 law enforcement
officers, have been injured or killed
from gun violence. Forty-seven of
those people hurt or killed were in my
district, the 45th district. We have lost
34 members of our communities in just
4 years, all to gun violence.
This is a public safety problem, and,
Mr. Speaker, doing nothing is unac-
ceptable. This issue affects all of us,
young and old alike.
Just last week, I received 60 letters,
60 letters from constituents living at
Heritage Point, a senior community,
each letter asking me to take action to
prevent so many senseless deaths.
These letters said: ‘‘Most of us have
families, children, grandchildren, and
even great grandchildren. We have
much anguish due to the recent and
terrible shootings taking place almost
in our own backyard.’’
Gun violence destroys families and
communities. We must work together
to keep dangerous weapons out of the
hands of dangerous people.
We cannot allow the frequent news of
gun violence to desensitize us into be-
lieving it is the norm. It is not the
norm, and it is not unavoidable. There
is something we can do to prevent gun
violence.
If Congress puts people first, people
ahead of the gun lobby, we can save
hundreds of lives each year. Our role,
as elected Representatives, is to
prioritize and fight for the well-being
of our constituents and our commu-
nities, not the score we are assigned by
the gun lobby.
Standing up to powerful special in-
terests is a radical transformation of
how Congress operates, but that
change is long overdue.
We need commitment and action by
Congress to pass commonsense gun
laws like H.R. 8, to expand background
checks. We need to fund CDC research
on firearms and the impacts of gun vio-
lence.
Without Congress’ action, if we sim-
ply offer thoughts and prayers, but do
nothing, our children, our families, our
communities, will increasingly suffer
from preventable injuries, preventable
suicides, and preventable homicides,
preventable shooting massacres, and
the fear and trauma associated with
gun violence.
Gun violence is an epidemic, and we
can no longer afford to point fingers or
to place blame. We must act. On both
sides of the aisle, we must have the
courage to fight gun violence for the
common good of the American people.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
BORDER SECURITY AND
COMPROMISE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr.
GROTHMAN) for 30 minutes.
Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to address the current com-
mittee meeting on our immigration
problems and problems connected to
the wall. I would like to spend a few
moments updating the American peo-
ple on the key issues and the status of
the key issues that we ought to re-
member as that committee does its
work.
I have spent some time talking with
constituents in the Sixth Congres-
sional District and, one more time,
want to address their concerns, or
maybe address some misconceptions
that are out there regarding this issue.
The first thing I will address is the
need to compromise. And it is true
that, in this body, again and again, we
must compromise. But I want to point
out that prior to this committee,
President Trump, has elected to—more
than any other issue—deal with the im-
migration crisis, has compromised con-
siderably.
First of all, on the issue of whether
we need a wall—and we will talk about
that wall. At various different times,
various different people have suggested
different amounts on the wall. Ini-
tially, people talked about 20 to $25 bil-
lion. The most recent or accurate esti-
mate it would take—not to build an en-
tire wall, but just to build parts of a
wall in areas in which one could cross
the border; in other words, areas in
which the terrain does not form a nat-
ural border, would cost about $8 bil-
lion.
And I hope the negotiators who are
Republicans will remember that $8 bil-
lion figure. I got it from the gentleman
who was the head of the Border Patrol
under the Obama administration.
President Trump, in an effort to
reach some sort of compromise, has al-
ready gone down from $8 billion to $5.7
billion. I find that unfortunate, in that
I toured the border about 3 weeks ago
and, at the time—I know some of the
wall that we so desperately need near
Sasabe, Arizona, areas in which MS–13
has gone across the land, trampled
across the land—and I have talked to
the ranchers there, they will have to be
told, sorry, we are building part of the
wall, but not enough of a wall for you.
So already, that $5.7 billion figure is
a big compromise.
I also want to point out with regard
to time. People wonder why we are
shutting down the government right
now. Actually, we could shut down the
government whenever people disagree
on what should be in, what we call, an
appropriations bill, but I think what
people back home would call a budget.
And every budget up here is a com-
promise. It contains hundreds of provi-
sions. Every provision gone over, and
maybe the Democrats want more of
this; the Republicans want more of
that.
In his first 2 years here, President
Trump got budgets that contained
very, very little for anything like a
wall. This is unfortunate. President
Trump, in particular, in a budget
passed about a year ago, what we call
an omnibus bill, complained what a bad
bill it was. It was a horrible bill, but he
signed it because he didn’t want to
shut down the government, which hap-
pens when both sides disagree.
So President Trump agreed to cave in
to people that wanted to spend a lot
more money on other things, in the in-
terest of keeping the government open.
But President Trump only gets a 4-year
term.
For the first 2 years he signed appro-
priations bills without adequate money
for the wall. Finally, in the third time
around he said, look, I would be happy
to sign a third year of appropriations,
but this time, I would like money for a
wall. He has compromised for over 2
years.
We had a government shutdown just
3 weeks ago because some headstrong
Democrats, despite being happy to
spend billions of dollars on other
things, refused to give a little bit of
money for the wall.
President Trump also extended the
DACA program for another 2 years.
And I will point out, that as well is
something the Border Patrol was not
thrilled about, because whenever you
talk about extending the DACA pro-
gram, it is kind of a magnet for people
south of the border, because they be-
lieve we are not going to enforce our
immigration laws anymore.
But, in an effort to compromise,
President Trump agreed to extend the
DACA extension for two more years. So
there have been plenty of compromises
already.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:13 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.101 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1441
February 7, 2019
And my suggestion to the committee
is that they bring in experts on how
much it would take to really secure the
border, and not be afraid if what Presi-
dent Obama’s head of the Border Patrol
said was right, and if we need $8 bil-
lion, then we spend $8 billion.
The next issue I am going to deal
with is the cost of the wall; $5.7 billion
or $8 billion—we will talk about the
$5.7 billion President Trump has come
down to—is a lot of money. But Con-
gress spends a lot of money.
We should remember that the $5.7 bil-
lion President Trump wants is one-sev-
enth the cost of foreign aid that this
country spends every year. It is well
under one-half of 1 percent of the over-
all Federal budget. It is actually about
one-tenth of 1 percent.
President Trump has increased de-
fense spending as President because
our defense budget was too low to ade-
quately protect our population. But
the amount where he is asking for the
wall is about one-twelfth of the in-
crease that we will spend year after
year after year on defense.
So you can see, when it comes to
spending on anything but the wall,
Congress has no time appropriating
much more money; seven times the
amount that we spend on foreign aid,
and almost nobody objects.
All of a sudden, with the wall, oh,
maybe it is too expensive.
The next thing I would like to ad-
dress is, do we need a wall? What would
happen if we don’t have a wall?
Remember, I am talking about $5.7
billion for a wall. It really should be $8
billion.
b 1830
First of all, about 90 percent of the
heroin in this country comes across
our southern border. Now, some people
like to point out that the vast amount
of heroin caught is at the points of
entry, which is true. We have Customs
at the point of entry, and they catch
people.
In places where there is no wall, and
I point to this area behind me near
Sasabe, Arizona, people are not
checked. We do not check vehicles. We
do not check how much they have.
Occasionally, we are fortunate
enough to catch people otherwise, but
if you were going to sneak drugs across
our southern border, would you try to
go across a normal point of entry with
plenty of Customs agents or out here in
the middle of nowhere? Of course, in
the middle of nowhere.
We are not serious about dealing
with the heroin problem in this coun-
try or the fentanyl problem in this
country unless we look to our southern
border. We are not serious about secur-
ing our southern border until we get a
wall.
Right now, at least 12 million people
are in this country illegally, but the
Border Patrol tells us they really have
no idea how many people are in this
country illegally because they don’t
count the number of people who are
coming across in these open areas.
They have told me it is entirely pos-
sible there are 20 million people in this
country illegally.
Obviously, having so many people
who are breaking the law just by being
here is an unstable situation. When I
talk to the Customs agents, they find
evidence of EBT cards and evidence of
Medicaid cards when people are walk-
ing across the border. Some of the peo-
ple who are coming here illegally and,
quite frankly, legally are illegally tak-
ing advantage of our welfare system.
If they are sick, they are certainly
going to our hospitals, going to our
emergency rooms, and running up the
cost of healthcare for people who are
here legally and paying their own way.
We believe, from the percentage of
people who are here illegally in our
Federal prisons, well more proportion-
ately than the native-born population,
that they are disproportionately com-
mitting crimes in this country.
Quite frankly, when you add up the
cost of all these things—they show up;
their kids get free education—The Her-
itage Foundation estimates that it
costs more than $50 billion a year for
illegal immigrants in this country. $8
billion for a wall, one-time money, as
opposed to $50 billion year after year
after year?
I am sometimes asked: Can America
afford to build a wall? If we are losing
$50 billion a year, we can’t afford not
to build a wall. Think how much
stronger our economy will be when we
are making sure that every immigrant
who comes into this country is a good,
productive immigrant.
Another reason we need a wall is
that, for people who come across this
sort of territory near Sasabe—and this
isn’t really the best picture—fre-
quently, it is in desert, and rocky
desert, not sandy desert, rocky desert.
Thousands of people have been found
around the Arizona-Mexico border after
having died trying to get across this
territory.
We are told that the cartels, which
help people get across the border—in
fact, are required to be dealt with to
get across the border—mislead people
when they get to the border. They
point them and say this way to Phoe-
nix, this way to Tucson, and it is
maybe hundreds of miles further to get
to Phoenix than they estimate. So the
people are left to die of starvation or
die, more likely, of dehydration.
It is a humanitarian crisis to con-
tinue to allow people to think that
sneaking across the open parts of the
current wall that has been built is the
way to get in the United States.
In any event, we need a wall. We will
continue to bleed money; we will con-
tinue to get people in this country ille-
gally; and we will continue to get peo-
ple who can only sneak into the coun-
try illegally rather than go across the
normal points of entries unless we
build that wall.
The next question that some people
will ask is: Does this mean that we are
anti-immigrant, because America is a
country of immigrants? Yes, America
is a country of immigration, but it is a
country of legal immigration.
I will remind people that, every year
in this country, 700,000 people are
sworn in legally. Nobody is talking
about cutting that number. A little
under 4 million people come into this
country on work visas every year, and
a little under 2 million come in on stu-
dent visas. Nobody is talking about
cutting these numbers. Dozens of mil-
lions additional people come in on
tourist visas.
With regard to the work visas or peo-
ple who literally come in here legally
and wind up being naturalized, what we
are asking is, for the people who are
trying to sneak off the border without
checking in with the Border Patrol or
Customs agents at the designated
areas, we are just asking them to get
in line and go through what everybody
who is trying to come here legally is
doing.
It is the height of irresponsibility to
say that we are anti-immigrant when
we are letting almost 4 million people
come into this country every year on
work visas and having 700,000 new peo-
ple sworn in in this country, natural-
ized in this country. That is not the
sign of an anti-immigrant President.
That is the sign of a President who un-
derstands very clearly how important
immigration is to our country.
By historic levels, it is very favorable
to immigrants. We are going to have
more foreign-born people in this coun-
try than at any time over the last 90
years. Again, that is not the sign of a
President who is anti-immigrant.
The next thing I will point out, some
people think: But can’t people come
into the country another way? Well, it
is true. I suppose no system is 100 per-
cent effective. But the one thing I am
going to say is that we do have a lot of
walls, and walls do work in other
places we put the walls.
We have some pictures here of walls.
Here are some walls in Sasabe, Ari-
zona. There are spaces in the walls that
aren’t good, but when they build this
sort of wall, whether they build the
wall between Juarez and El Paso or a
wall between San Diego and Tijuana,
the walls have been very effective.
Here you see the wall between San
Diego and Tijuana, a very effective
wall. People are not getting around
that wall. It decreased illegal crossings
at that place over 90 percent.
Here is a wall in Israel between Israel
and Egypt, because Israel was having a
problem of people sneaking into their
country illegally. So Israel built a
wall. Well over 95 percent successful,
nobody is getting across the wall any-
more between Israel and Egypt, show-
ing that the wall is successful.
Other countries with successful
walls, a wall that was largely built
with U.S. taxpayer money—which I
will point out people who are not going
to vote for this wall had no problem
voting for—is the wall along the Jor-
dan-Syria border and part of the border
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:13 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.102 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1442 February 7, 2019
with Iraq, because it is important for
Jordan not to let terrorists into their
country. That wall has been highly
successful in keeping Jordan safe.
Another country that built a wall is
Hungary, which shares a border with
Serbia. They were afraid of other peo-
ple coming from south of Hungary, in
essence invading their country like
people right now are trying to invade
the United States. So they built a wall.
Hungary has found that that sort of
wall has been very successful in keep-
ing out immigrants who they don’t
want to have in their country.
There is a reason why President Clin-
ton wanted a wall between Tijuana and
San Diego, and there is a reason why
Israel and Hungary and nine other Eu-
ropean nations have walls. It is because
walls work, and that is the clearest
way to prevent people from crossing
into the country illegally.
There is another benefit to walls,
too, that people don’t take into ac-
count. It sends the message that the
United States is serious about our im-
migration laws.
We will talk for just a second about
border security and the degree to
which we have to build a wall to send
the message that the United States is
serious, because you hear from time to
time in this body that certain people
say everybody wants border security.
Well, that is funny, because there are
all sorts of politicians in this country
of both parties—I will include Presi-
dent Bush in this—who do all sorts of
things that would indicate that we do
not intend to enforce our borders.
Both the Governor of California and
the mayor of New York have said that
we should be providing free medical
care to illegal immigrants. Does that
sound like they want border security?
It sounds more like they want to be a
magnet for illegal immigration.
Dozens of sanctuary cities and sanc-
tuary counties, and in the case of Cali-
fornia, a whole State, set themselves
up as areas in which local officials will
not ask whether people are here legally
or illegally. That is like a magnet to
people south of the border as they hear
American elected officials, in essence,
say: Don’t worry about the immigra-
tion laws being enforced in our city or
our county or our State.
Those people do not want border se-
curity.
Keith Ellison, a former Congressman,
now attorney general of Minnesota,
says that natural borders create an in-
justice. In other words, there is a larg-
er crowd out there who doesn’t even
know we have a country. They say ev-
erybody can come in. Who cares.
These are powerful people, and the
people south of the border who want to
come here illegally are listening to
them.
The Oakland mayor, another power-
ful person, when ICE tried to wrap up
over 100 people, criminals, in the Oak-
land area to send them out of this
country, she alerted the public to the
fact that ICE was in the area trying to
enforce our immigration laws on crimi-
nals. Why would a mayor undermine
ICE, which is trying to evict criminals
from this country? The reason is sim-
ple: They don’t care about border secu-
rity.
Americans have to realize, for are a
lot of elected officials out there, it is
come one, come all. It is not let’s pick
our million or 2 million or 3 million
people who are coming into the coun-
try every year. It is let’s let everyone
come into the country.
Those people are increasingly power-
ful, and their message is to ignore im-
migration laws, which is another rea-
son why we need a wall.
Putting up a wall everywhere where
we need a wall, there are a few natural
barriers in which it is not necessary,
but I would say we need at least an-
other 300 miles of wall. To put up that
additional 300 miles of wall and im-
prove the wall we already have sends
the message that people like the mayor
of Oakland or the Congressmen who
want to get rid of ICE do not speak for
the American Government. We are seri-
ous about enforcing our immigration
laws.
Now, the question is—and I don’t
want to tar all Democrats; I have a lot
of Democrat friends. But why is the
vast majority of Democrats not willing
to compromise on this wall? Why are
these Democrats who in the past had
no problem voting for a wall when
President Clinton was President, and
they had no problem voting for addi-
tional wall when President Bush was
President—and a lot of that appropria-
tion when President Bush was Presi-
dent wasn’t spent until President
Obama was President and he was im-
proving our walls. But why is a wall
now immoral when the wall wasn’t im-
moral under President Clinton or
President Bush or President Obama?
The answer is twofold. One, sadly, is
political. A couple of weeks ago, eight
Democrats voted in a way that I think
they would be okay with a wall, but
that is not enough. Part is, sadly, po-
litical. Some people don’t like Presi-
dent Trump, and they don’t want to see
him succeed.
Worse, we have an increasing
radicalization within too many ele-
ments of the Democratic Party. I have
been around long enough to remember
when I think Democrats in this Cham-
ber—I wasn’t here for it—but like I
said, where they would have quickly
voted for appropriations for a wall
under President Clinton. But this
Keith Ellison new breed of Congress-
man type is quickly getting a vise grip
on some members of the Democratic
Party.
For that reason, votes that they
would have taken in a heartbeat in the
1990s, or in the first decade of this cen-
tury, or even 7 or 8 years ago, they will
not take anymore. They genuinely be-
lieve in some sort of world in which
anybody who wants can come here, and
it won’t affect the long-term safety of
our Nation.
b 1845
That is preposterous, but we have to
remember, that is more and more com-
mon.
And I would look for the Democrats
or anybody who comes down here to
speak as to why it wasn’t mean-spir-
ited, it didn’t send a bad message to
build a wall under these other Presi-
dents, but it does now.
So to, one more time, go over the
points that have been made for people
to remember:
President Trump has compromised
and not built a wall for over 2 years—
really breaking the heart of a lot of his
supporters.
He has dropped the amount he want-
ed from, originally, $20 billion all the
way, now, down under $6 billion, such a
small amount that there will be big
gaps in that wall because of his effort
to compromise.
President Trump has even tried to
bring other issues into the debate by
extending DACA, hoping that this
sweetener would cause other people to
move a little bit on their negotiating
point. It didn’t.
I will digress for just one second
while I talk about that DACA.
The third thing to remember is that
that wall is one-seventh the cost of for-
eign aid in this country.
Is that too big of an amount? Is that
something we can’t handle? That is not
true.
The next thing to remember is, when
other Presidents were building the
wall, there were no objections around
here. All of a sudden, in 2019, when
President Trump is President, in part
due to the radicalization of some Mem-
bers of this body and in part due to per-
sonal dislike of President Trump, too
many people are willing to continue to
allow people to stream across the bor-
der with drugs, violent people with dis-
regard for their fellow citizens, not to
give President Trump a win, and, in
part, because their ideology has
switched and they really don’t need a
wall at all.
The next thing to remember is walls
work. If anybody questions, walls
work.
Look at the wall between San Diego
and Tijuana; look at the wall between
Israel and Egypt; look at the wall be-
tween Serbia and Hungary. In all cases,
these walls were working.
And if you talk to the Border Patrol
today, as I have, the Border Patrol and
Customs agents will tell you we need a
wall. The people who are down there,
who are experts on the topic, know
that that wall will work—not 100 per-
cent, but it will work a lot better than
what they have now.
I should point out, they want a smart
wall; they want a wall with some sen-
sors on there; and they want a wall
with a road.
One of the problems we have right
now enforcing our southern border is
that, without a road, given the rough
terrain, even if we find out somebody is
sneaking across the border, the Border
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:13 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.104 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1443
February 7, 2019
Patrol could not get there on a very
timely basis because their vehicles
can’t move there.
Here, we have an example of a wall
with a road that the Border Patrol can
get up and down on.
Here, we have an example of a wall
without a road, which makes it very
difficult to stop people on a timely
basis.
And then the other thing for people
to remember, when people talk about
their problems with the wall, there are
a growing number of politicians out
there, local or Federal, who really
don’t want border security. They would
be pretty happy with coming across the
border now.
Now, as far as looking down the fu-
ture on this issue, one of the things
that scares me is, with all these people
fighting against the wall, it is going to
take more resolve, because that is only
one of the issues that has to be tackled
for us to secure our borders.
Right now, our asylum laws are very
flawed. People are trying to come into
this country, sometimes with other
people’s children, knowing that if they
say the magic words and that they are
at risk, we will have to let them in this
country until there is some sort of
court proceeding that they almost cer-
tainly won’t show up for.
So after we are done with the wall, or
maybe as part of the wall negotiations,
we have got to do something with our
asylum laws to prevent anybody who
either has a child or is borrowing some-
body else’s child from trying to come
in this country.
Another problem we have: We have
got a problem with people coming in
this country for welfare. As I men-
tioned, the Customs agents see that.
We have people coming into this
country because of relatives, what in
most cases would even be referred to as
shirttail relatives, but they are taking
advantage of that to come into this
country.
In any event, we have people who are
becoming citizens on birthright citi-
zenship. And people are coming in this
country 8 months pregnant, having a
child so that their family can come
into the United States. There is an-
other loophole that very few countries
have that we have to close.
So this wall which President Trump
has been fighting for for over 2 years is
only the first step of many steps that
we absolutely have to do to save our
country.
I plead with the American public, ask
people from both sides of the aisle: Re-
member that Bill Clinton built part of
a wall. Remember that people had no
problem voting for a wall under George
Bush, and remember that even Barack
Obama improved part of the wall.
And I ask the people on the other
side—I hate to say ‘‘on the other side,’’
but people on the other side of the
aisle, other than those who have al-
ready changed and said it is okay for a
wall:
Pretend it is the 1990s or the first
decade of this century and somebody
else was President, when a little more
old-fashioned values ruled the show
and we wanted to be a country of laws,
and vote like almost everybody on that
side of the aisle would have voted in
the 1990s or the first decade of the cen-
tury. Vote for $5.7 billion—or better, a
full $8 billion towards the wall so that
we can secure our country, at least in-
sofar as a border can secure our coun-
try. After that, we can tackle the prob-
lems with the asylum laws and other
flaws in our immigration laws, tackle
birthright citizenship so that we are
determining who can come into our
country in the future, because immi-
grants have been so valuable, histori-
cally, but we should aim for every im-
migrant being a good immigrant.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE
RULES
RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE FOR
THE 116TH CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE,
Washington, DC, February 7, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: I am pleased to
submit for printing in the Congressional
Record, pursuant to Rule XI, clause 2(a) of
the Rules of the House, a copy of the Rules
of the Committee on Agriculture, which were
adopted at the organizational meeting of the
Committee on February 7, 2019.
Appendix A of the Committee Rules will
include excerpts from the Rules of the House
relevant to the operation of the Committee.
Appendix B will include relevant excerpts
from the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
In the interest of minimizing printing costs,
Appendices A and B are omitted from this
submission.
Sincerely,
COLLIN C. PETERSON,
Chairman.
Enclosure.
RULE I.—GENERAL PROVISIONS
(a) Applicability of House Rule.—(1) The
Rules of the House shall govern the proce-
dure of the Committee and its subcommit-
tees, and the Rules of the Committee on Ag-
riculture so far as applicable shall be inter-
preted in accordance with the Rules of the
House, except that a motion to recess from
day to day, and a motion to dispense with
the first reading (in full) of a bill or resolu-
tion, if printed copies are available, are non-
debatable privileged motions in the Com-
mittee and its subcommittees. (See Appendix
A for the applicable Rules of the U.S. House
of Representatives.)
(2) As provided in clause 1(a)(1) of House
Rule XI, each Subcommittee is part of the
Committee and is subject to the authority
and direction of the Committee and its Rules
so far as applicable. (See also Committee
Rules III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII and XI, infra.)
(b) Authority to Conduct Investigation.—The
Committee and its subcommittees, after con-
sultation with the Chairman of the Com-
mittee, may conduct such investigations and
studies as they may consider necessary or
appropriate in the exercise of their respon-
sibilities under Rule X of the Rules of the
House and in accordance with clause 2(m) of
House Rule XI.
(c) Authority to Print. The Committee is au-
thorized by the Rules of the House to have
printed and bound testimony and other data
presented at hearings held by the Committee
and its subcommittees. All costs of steno-
graphic services and transcripts in connec-
tion with any meeting or hearing of the
Committee and its subcommittees shall be
paid from applicable accounts of the House
described in clause 1(k)(1) of House Rule X in
accordance with clause 1(c) of House Rule XI.
(See also paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of Com-
mittee Rule IX.)
(d) Vice Chairman.—The Member of the ma-
jority party on the Committee or Sub-
committee designated by the Chairman of
the full Committee shall be the vice chair-
man of the Committee or Subcommittee in
accordance with clause 2(d) of House Rule
XI.
(e) Presiding Member.—If the Chairman of
the Committee or Subcommittee is not
present at any Committee or Subcommittee
meeting or hearing, the vice chairman shall
preside. If the Chairman and vice chairman
of the Committee or Subcommittee are not
present at a Committee or Subcommittee
meeting or hearing the ranking Member of
the majority party who is present shall pre-
side in accordance with clause 2(d) of House
Rule XI.
(f) Publication of Rules.—The Committee’s
Rules shall be publicly available in elec-
tronic form and published in the Congres-
sional Record not later than 60 days after the
Chair is elected in each odd-numbered year
as provided in clause 2(a) of House Rule XI.
(g) Joint Committee Reports of Investigation
or Study.—A report of an investigation or
study conducted jointly by more than one
committee may be filed jointly, provided
that each of the committees complies inde-
pendently with all requirements for approval
and filing of the report.
RULE II.—COMMITTEE BUSINESS MEETINGS—
REGULAR, ADDITIONAL AND SPECIAL
(a) Regular Meetings.—Regular meetings of
the Committee, in accordance with clause
2(b) of House Rule XI, shall be held on the
first Wednesday of every month to transact
its business if notice is given pursuant to
clause 2(g)(3) of House Rule XI. The Chair-
man shall provide each Member of the Com-
mittee, as far in advance of the day of the
regular meeting as practicable, a written
agenda of such meeting. Items may be placed
on the agenda by the Chairman or a majority
of the Committee. (See paragraph (f) of Com-
mittee Rule XI for provisions that apply to
meetings of subcommittees.)
(b) Additional Meetings.—(1) The Chairman
may call and convene, as he or she considers
necessary, which may not commence earlier
than the third calendar day (excluding Sat-
urdays, Sundays, or legal holidays except
when the House is in session on such a day)
on which Members have notice thereof after
consultation with the Ranking Minority
Member of the Committee or after concur-
rence with the Ranking Minority Member,
additional meetings of the Committee for
the consideration of any bill or resolution
pending before the Committee or for the con-
duct of other Committee business. The Com-
mittee shall meet for such additional meet-
ings pursuant to the notice from the Chair-
man.
(2) A hearing or meeting may begin sooner
than specified in clause (1) (in which case,
the chair shall make the announcement
specified at the earliest possible time) if the
Committee so determines by majority vote
in the presence of the number of Members re-
quired under the Rules of the Committee for
the transaction of business.
(3) At least 24 hours prior to the com-
mencement of a meeting for the markup of a
measure or matter the Chair shall cause the
text of such measure or matter to be made
publicly available in electronic form.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K07FE7.105 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1444 February 7, 2019
(c) Special Meetings.—If at least three Mem-
bers of the Committee desire that a special
meeting of the Committee be called by the
Chairman, those Members may file in the of-
fices of the Committee their written request
to the Chairman for such special meeting.
Such request shall specify the measure or
matters to be considered. Immediately upon
the filing of the request, the Majority Staff
Director (serving as the clerk of the Com-
mittee for such purpose) shall notify the
Chairman of the filing of the request. If,
within 3 calendar days after the filing of the
request, the Chairman does not call the re-
quested special meeting to be held within 7
calendar days after the filing of the request,
a majority of the Members of the Committee
may file in the offices of the Committee
their written notice that a special meeting
of the Committee will be held, specifying the
date and hour thereof, and the measures or
matter to be considered at that special meet-
ing in accordance with clause 2(c)(2) of House
Rule XI. The Committee shall meet on that
date and hour. Immediately upon the filing
of the notice, the Majority Staff Director
(serving as the clerk) of the Committee shall
notify all Members of the Committee that
such meeting will be held and inform them of
its date and hour and the measure or matter
to be considered, and only the measure or
matter specified in that notice may be con-
sidered at that special meeting.
RULE III.—OPEN MEETINGS AND HEARINGS;
BROADCASTING
(a) Open Meetings and Hearings.—Each
meeting for the transaction of business, in-
cluding the markup of legislation, and each
hearing by the Committee or a Sub-
committee shall be open to the public unless
closed in accordance with clause 2(g) of
House Rule XI.
(b) Broadcasting and Photography.—When-
ever a Committee or Subcommittee meeting
for the transaction of business, including the
markup of legislation, or a hearing is open to
the public, the Committee shall:
(1) to the maximum extent practicable pro-
vide audio and video coverage of each hear-
ing or meeting for the transaction of busi-
ness in a manner that allows the public to
easily listen to and view the proceedings and
shall maintain the recordings of such cov-
erage in a manner that is easily accessible to
the public; and
(2) make each hearing or meeting for the
transaction of business open to coverage by
television, radio, and still photography in ac-
cordance with clause 4 of House Rule XI.
When such audio and visual coverage is con-
ducted in the Committee or Subcommittee,
written notice to that effect shall be pro-
vided to each Member. The Chairman of the
Committee or Subcommittee shall not limit
the number of television or still cameras
permitted in a hearing or meeting room to
fewer than two representatives from each
medium (except for legitimate space or safe-
ty considerations, in which case pool cov-
erage shall be authorized).
(c) Closed Meetings—Attendees.—No person
other than Members of the Committee or
Subcommittee and such congressional staff
and departmental representatives as the
Committee or Subcommittee may authorize
shall be present at any business or markup
session that has been closed to the public as
provided in clause 2(g)(1) of House Rule XI.
(d) Addressing the Committee.—A Committee
Member may address the Committee or a
Subcommittee on any bill, motion, or other
matter under consideration (See Committee
Rule VIII (e) relating to questioning a wit-
ness at a hearing). The time a Member may
address the Committee or Subcommittee for
any such purpose shall be limited to 5 min-
utes, except that this time limit may be
waived by unanimous consent. A Member
shall also be limited in his or her remarks to
the subject matter under consideration, un-
less the Member receives unanimous consent
to extend his or her remarks beyond such
subject.
(e) Meetings to Begin Promptly.—Subject to
the presence of a quorum, each meeting or
hearing of the Committee and its sub-
committees shall begin promptly at the time
so stipulated in the public announcement of
the meeting or hearing.
(f) Prohibition on Proxy Voting.—No vote by
any Member of the Committee or Sub-
committee with respect to any measure or
matter may be cast by proxy.
(g) Location of Persons at Meetings.—No per-
son other than the Committee or Sub-
committee Members and Committee or Sub-
committee staff may be seated in the ros-
trum area during a meeting of the Com-
mittee or Subcommittee unless by unani-
mous consent of Committee or Sub-
committee.
(h) Consideration of Amendments and Mo-
tions.—A Member, upon request, shall be rec-
ognized by the Chairman to address the Com-
mittee or Subcommittee at a meeting for a
period limited to 5 minutes on behalf of an
amendment or motion offered by the Mem-
ber or another Member, or upon any other
matter under consideration, unless the Mem-
ber receives unanimous consent to extend
the time limit. Every amendment or motion
made in Committee or Subcommittee shall,
upon the demand of any Member present, be
reduced to writing, and a copy thereof shall
be made available to all Members present.
Such amendment or motion shall not be
pending before the Committee or Sub-
committee or voted on until the require-
ments of this paragraph have been met.
(i) Demanding Record Vote.—
(1) A record vote of the Committee or Sub-
committee on a question or action shall be
ordered on a demand by one-fifth of the
Members present.
(2) The Chairman of the Committee or Sub-
committee may postpone further pro-
ceedings when a record vote is ordered on the
question of approving a measure or matter
or on adopting an amendment. If the Chair-
man postpones further proceedings:
(A) the Chairman may resume such post-
poned proceedings, after giving Members
adequate notice, at a time chosen in con-
sultation with the Ranking Minority Mem-
ber; and
(B) notwithstanding any intervening order
for the previous question, the underlying
proposition on which proceedings were post-
poned shall remain subject to further debate
or amendment to the same extent as when
the question was postponed.
(j) Submission of Motions or Amendments In
Advance of Business Meetings.—The Com-
mittee and Subcommittee Chairman may re-
quest and Committee and Subcommittee
Members should, insofar as practicable, co-
operate in providing copies of proposed
amendments or motions to the Chairman
and the Ranking Minority Member of the
Committee or the Subcommittee twenty-
four hours before a Committee or Sub-
committee business meeting.
(k) Points of Order.—No point of order
against the hearing or meeting procedures of
the Committee or Subcommittee shall be en-
tertained unless it is made in a timely fash-
ion.
(1) Limitation on Committee Sittings.—The
Committee or subcommittees may not sit
during a joint session of the House and Sen-
ate or during a recess when a joint meeting
of the House and Senate is in progress.
(m) Prohibition of Wireless Telephones.—Use
of wireless phones for vocal conversation
during a Committee or Subcommittee hear-
ing or meeting is prohibited.
RULE IV.—QUORUMS
(a) Working Quorum.—One-third of the
Members of the Committee or Subcommittee
shall constitute a quorum for taking any ac-
tion, other than as noted in paragraphs (b)
and (c).
(b) Majority Quorum.—A majority of the
Members of the Committee or Subcommittee
shall constitute a quorum for:
(1) the reporting of a bill, resolution, or
other measure (See clause 2(h)(1) of House
Rule XI, and Committee Rule IX);
(2) the closing of a meeting or hearing to
the public pursuant to clauses 2(g), 2(k)(5),
and 2(k)(7) of House Rule XI;
(3) the authorizing of a subpoena as pro-
vided in clause 2(m)(3) of House Rule XI (See
also Committee Rule VII); and
(4) as where required by a Rule of the
House.
(c) Quorum for Taking Testimony.—Two
Members of the Committee or Subcommittee
shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
taking testimony and receiving evidence.
RULE V.—RECORDS
(a) Maintenance of Records.—The Com-
mittee shall keep a complete record of all
Committee and Subcommittee action which
shall include:
(1) in the case of any meeting or hearing
transcripts, a substantially verbatim ac-
count of remarks actually made during the
proceedings, subject only to technical, gram-
matical, and typographical corrections au-
thorized by the person making the remarks
involved, and
(2) written minutes, which shall include a
record of all Committee and Subcommittee
action, a record of all votes on any question,
and a tally on all record votes.
The result of each such record vote shall be
made available by the Committee for inspec-
tion by the public at reasonable times in the
offices of the Committee and by telephone
request and also made publicly available in
electronic form within 48 hours of such
record vote. Not later than 24 hours after
adoption of an amendment to a measure or
matter, the chair of the Committee shall
cause the text of such amendment adopted
thereto to be made publicly available in elec-
tronic form. Information so available for
public inspection shall include a description
of the amendment, motion, order, or other
proposition; the name of each Member voting
for and each Member voting against such
amendment, motion, order, or other propo-
sition; and the names of those Members
present but not voting.
(b) Access to and Correction of Records.—Any
public witness, or person authorized by such
witness, during Committee office hours in
the Committee offices and within 10 calendar
days of the close of hearings, may obtain a
transcript copy of that public witness’s testi-
mony and make such technical, grammat-
ical, and typographical corrections as au-
thorized by the person making the remarks
involved as will not alter the nature of testi-
mony given. There shall be prompt return of
such corrected copy of the transcript to the
Committee. Members of the Committee or
Subcommittee shall receive copies of tran-
scripts for their prompt review and correc-
tion and prompt return to the Committee.
The Committee or Subcommittee may order
the printing of a hearing record without the
corrections of any Member or witness if it
determines that such Member or witness has
been afforded a reasonable time in which to
make such corrections and further delay
would seriously impede the consideration of
the legislative action that is subject of the
hearing. The record of a hearing shall be
closed 10 calendar days after the last oral
testimony, unless the Committee or Sub-
committee determines otherwise. Any per-
son requesting 10 to file a statement for the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:13 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.044 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1445
February 7, 2019
record of a hearing must so request before
the hearing concludes and must file the
statement before the record is closed, unless
the Committee or Subcommittee determines
otherwise. The Committee or Subcommittee
may reject any statement in light of its
length or its tendency to defame, degrade, or
incriminate any person.
(c) Property of the House.—All Committee
and Subcommittee records (including hear-
ings data, charts, and files) shall be kept sep-
arate and distinct from the congressional of-
fice records of the Members serving as Chair-
man. Such records shall be the property of
the House, and all Members of the House
shall have access thereto. The Majority Staff
Director shall promptly notify the Chairman
and the Ranking Minority Member of any re-
quest for access to such records.
(d) Availability of Archived Records.—The
records of the Committee at the National Ar-
chives and Records Administration shall be
made available for public use in accordance
with House Rule VII. The Chairman shall no-
tify the Ranking Minority Member of the
Committee of the need for a Committee
order pursuant to clause 3(b)(3) or clause 4(b)
of such House Rule, to withhold a record oth-
erwise available.
(e) Special Rules for Certain Records and Pro-
ceedings.—A stenographic record of a busi-
ness meeting of the Committee or Sub-
committee may be kept, and thereafter may
be published, if the Chairman of the Com-
mittee, after consultation with the Ranking
Minority Member, determines there is need
for such a record. The proceedings of the
Committee or Subcommittee in a closed
meeting, evidence or testimony in such
meeting, shall not be divulged unless other-
wise determined by a majority of the Com-
mittee or Subcommittee.
(f) Electronic Availability of Committee Publi-
cations.—To the maximum extent feasible,
the Committee shall make its publications
available in electronic form.
RULE VI.—POWER TO SIT AND ACT
For the purpose of carrying out any of its
function and duties under House Rules X and
XI, the Committee and each of its sub-
committees is authorized to sit and act at
such times and places within the United
States whether the House is in session, has
recessed, or has adjourned and to hold such
hearings.
RULE VII.—SUBPOENAS, DEPOSITIONS, AND
OATHS
(a) Issuance of Subpoenas.—In accordance
with clause 2(m) of House Rule XI, a sub-
poena may be authorized and issued by a ma-
jority of the Committee or by the Chairman
in consultation with the Ranking Minority
Member. Such consultation shall occur at
least 48 hours in advance of a subpoena being
issued under such authority. Authorized sub-
poenas shall be signed by the Chairman of
the Committee or by any Member designated
by the Committee.
(b) Oaths.—The Chairman of the Com-
mittee, or any member of the Committee
designated by the Chairman, may administer
oaths to any witnesses.
(c) Deposition Authority.—
(1) The Chairman, upon consultation with
the Ranking Minority Member, may order
the taking of depositions, including pursuant
to subpoena, by a Member or counsel of the
Committee.
(2) Depositions taken under the authority
prescribed in this subsection shall be subject
to regulations issued by the chair of the
Committee on Rules and printed in the Con-
gressional Record.
RULE VIII.—HEARING PROCEDURES
(a) Power to Hear.—For the purpose of car-
rying out any of its functions and duties
under House Rules X and XI, the Committee
and its subcommittees are authorized to sit
and hold hearings at any time or place with-
in the United States whether the House is in
session, has recessed, or has adjourned. (See
Committee Rule VI and paragraph (f) of
Committee Rule XI for provisions relating to
Subcommittee hearings and meetings.)
(b) Announcement.—The Chairman of the
Committee shall, after consultation with the
Ranking Minority Member of the Com-
mittee, make a public announcement of the
date, place, and subject matter of any Com-
mittee hearing at least 1 week before the
commencement of the hearing. The Chair-
man of a Subcommittee shall schedule a
hearing only after consultation with the
Chairman of the Committee and the Ranking
Minority Member of the Subcommittee.
After such consultation, the Chairman of the
Subcommittee shall consult the Chairmen of
the other subcommittees and shall request
the Majority Staff Director to make a public
announcement of the date, place, and subject
matter of such hearing at least 1 week before
the hearing. If the Chairman of the Com-
mittee or the Subcommittee, with concur-
rence of the Ranking Minority Member of
the Committee or Subcommittee, determines
there is good cause to begin the hearing
sooner, or if the Committee or Sub-
committee so determines by majority vote, a
quorum being present for the transaction of
business, the Chairman of the Committee or
Subcommittee, as appropriate, shall request
the Majority Staff Director to make such
public announcement at the earliest possible
date. The clerk of the Committee shall
promptly notify the Daily Digest Clerk of
the Congressional Record and shall promptly
enter the appropriate information into the
Committee scheduling service of the House
information system as soon as possible after
such public announcement is made.
(c) Scheduling of Witnesses.—Except as oth-
erwise provided in this rule, the scheduling
of witnesses and determination of the time
allowed for the presentation of testimony at
hearings shall be at the discretion of the
Chairman of the Committee or Sub-
committee, unless a majority of the Com-
mittee or Subcommittee determines other-
wise.
(d) Written Statement; Oral Testimony.—(1)
Each witness who is to appear before the
Committee or a Subcommittee, shall insofar
as practicable file with the Majority Staff
Director of the Committee, at least 2 work-
ing days before the day of his or her appear-
ance, a written statement of proposed testi-
mony. Witnesses shall provide sufficient cop-
ies of their statement for distribution to
Committee or Subcommittee Members, staff,
and the news media. Insofar as practicable,
the Committee or Subcommittee staff shall
distribute such written statements to all
Members of the Committee or Subcommittee
as soon as they are received, as well as any
official reports from departments and agen-
cies on such subject matter. All witnesses
may be limited in their oral presentations to
brief summaries of their statements within
the time allotted to them at the discretion
of the Chairman of the Committee or Sub-
committee, in light of the nature of the tes-
timony and the length of time available.
(2) As noted in paragraph (b) of Committee
Rule VII, the Chairman of the Committee, or
any Member designated by the Chairman,
may administer an oath to any witness.
(3) To the greatest extent practicable, each
witness appearing in a non-governmental ca-
pacity shall include with the written state-
ment of proposed testimony:
(i) a curriculum vitae;
(ii) disclosure of the amount and source (by
agency and program) of any Federal grant
(or subgrant thereof) or contract (or sub-
contract thereof) received during the current
calendar year or either of the 2 preceding
calendar years by the witness or by an entity
represented by the witness; and
(iii) disclosure of the amount and country
of origin of any payment or contract related
to the subject matter of the hearing origi-
nating with a foreign government received
during the current calendar year or either of
the 2 preceding calendar years by the witness
or by an entity represented by the witness.
Such statements, with appropriate
redactions to protect the privacy of wit-
nesses, shall be made publicly available in
electronic form not later than 1 day after the
witness appears.
(e) Questioning of Witnesses.—Committee or
Subcommittee Members may question wit-
nesses only when they have been recognized
by the Chairman of the Committee or Sub-
committee for that purpose. Each Member so
recognized shall be limited to questioning a
witness for 5 minutes until such time as each
Member of the Committee or Subcommittee
who so desires has had an opportunity to
question the witness for 5 minutes; and
thereafter the Chairman of the Committee or
Subcommittee may limit the time of a fur-
ther round of questioning after giving due
consideration to the importance of the sub-
ject matter and the length of time available.
All questions put to witnesses shall be ger-
mane to the measure or matter under consid-
eration. Unless a majority of the Committee
or Subcommittee determines otherwise, no
Committee or Subcommittee staff shall in-
terrogate witnesses.
(f) Extended Questioning for Designated Mem-
bers.—Notwithstanding paragraph (e), the
Chairman and Ranking Minority Member
may designate an equal number of Members
from each party to question a witness for a
period not longer than 60 minutes.
(g) Witnesses for the Minority.—When any
hearing is conducted by the Committee or
any Subcommittee upon any measure or
matter, the minority party Members on the
Committee or Subcommittee shall be enti-
tled, upon request to the Chairman by a ma-
jority of those minority Members before the
completion of such hearing, to call witnesses
selected by the minority to testify with re-
spect to that measure or matter during at
least 1 day of hearing thereon as provided in
clause 2(j)(1) of House Rule XI.
(h) Summary of Subject Matter.—Upon an-
nouncement of a hearing, to the extent prac-
ticable, the Committee shall make available
immediately to all Members of the Com-
mittee a concise summary of the subject
matter (including legislative reports and
other material) under consideration. In addi-
tion, upon announcement of a hearing and
subsequently as they are received, the Chair-
man of the Committee or Subcommittee
shall, to the extent practicable, make avail-
able to the Members of the Committee any
official reports from departments and agen-
cies on such matter. (See paragraph (f) of
Committee Rule XI.)
(i) Open Hearings.—Each hearing conducted
by the Committee or Subcommittee shall be
open to the public, including radio, tele-
vision, and still photography coverage, ex-
cept as provided in clause 4 of House Rule XI
(See also paragraph (b) of Committee Rule
III.). In any event, no Member of the House
may be excluded from nonparticipatory at-
tendance at any hearing unless the House by
majority vote shall authorize the Committee
or Subcommittee, for purposes of a par-
ticular series of hearings on a particular bill
or resolution or on a particular subject of in-
vestigation, to close its hearings to Members
by means of the above procedure.
(j) Hearings and Reports.—(1)(i) The Chair-
man of the Committee or Subcommittee at a
hearing shall announce in an opening state-
ment the subject of the investigation. A copy
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.045 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1446 February 7, 2019
of the Committee Rules (and the applicable
provisions of clause 2 of House Rule XI, re-
garding hearing procedures, an excerpt of
which appears in Appendix A thereto) shall
be made available to each witness upon re-
quest. Witnesses at hearings may be accom-
panied by their own counsel for the purpose
of advising them concerning their constitu-
tional rights. The Chairman of the Com-
mittee or Subcommittee may punish
breaches of order and decorum, and of profes-
sional ethics on the part of counsel, by cen-
sure and exclusion from the hearings; but
only the full Committee may cite the of-
fender to the House for contempt.
(ii) Whenever it is asserted by a Member of
the Committee that the evidence or testi-
mony at a hearing may tend to defame, de-
grade, or incriminate any person, or it is as-
serted by a witness that the evidence or tes-
timony that the witness would give at a
hearing may tend to defame, degrade, or in-
criminate the witness, such testimony or
evidence shall be presented in executive ses-
sion, notwithstanding the provisions of para-
graph (i) of this rule, if by a majority of
those present, there being in attendance the
requisite number required under the Rules of
the Committee to be present for the purpose
of taking testimony, the Committee or Sub-
committee determines that such evidence or
testimony may tend to defame, degrade, or
incriminate any person. The Committee or
Subcommittee shall afford a person an op-
portunity to voluntarily appear as a witness;
and the Committee or Subcommittee shall
receive and shall dispose of requests from
such person to subpoena additional wit-
nesses.
(iii) No evidence or testimony taken in ex-
ecutive session may be released or used in
public sessions without the consent of the
Committee or Subcommittee. In the discre-
tion of the Committee or Subcommittee,
witnesses may submit brief and pertinent
statements in writing for inclusion in the
record. The Committee or Subcommittee is
the sole judge of the pertinence of testimony
and evidence adduced at its hearings. A wit-
ness may obtain a transcribed copy of his or
her testimony given at a public session. If
given at an executive session, a transcribed
copy of testimony may be obtained when au-
thorized by the Committee or Sub-
committee. (See paragraph (c) of Committee
Rule V.)
(2) A proposed investigative or oversight
report shall be considered as read if it has
been available to the Members of the Com-
mittee for at least 24 hours (excluding Satur-
days, Sundays, or legal holidays except when
the House is in session on such day) in ad-
vance of their consideration.
RULE IX. THE REPORTING OF BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS
(a) Filing of Reports.—The Chairman shall
report or cause to be reported promptly to
the House any bill, resolution, or other
measure approved by the Committee and
shall take or cause to be taken all necessary
steps to bring such bill, resolution, or other
measure to a vote. No bill, resolution, or
measure shall be reported from the Com-
mittee unless a majority of the Committee is
actually present. A Committee report on any
bill, resolution, or other measure approved
by the Committee shall be filed within 7 cal-
endar days (not counting days on which the
House is not in session) after the day on
which there has been filed with the Majority
Staff Director of the Committee a written
request, signed by a majority of the Com-
mittee, for the reporting of that bill or reso-
lution. The Majority Staff Director of the
Committee shall notify the Chairman imme-
diately when such a request is filed.
(b) Content of Reports.—Each Committee re-
port on any bill or resolution approved by
the Committee shall include as separately
identified sections:
(1) a statement of the intent or purpose of
the bill or resolution;
(2) a statement describing the need for
such bill or resolution;
(3) a statement of Committee and Sub-
committee consideration of the measure, in-
cluding a summary of amendments and mo-
tions offered and the actions taken thereon;
(4) the results of each record vote on any
amendment in the Committee and Sub-
committee and on the motion to report the
measure or matter, including the total num-
ber of votes cast for and against, and the
names of Members voting for and against
such amendment or motion (See clause 3 (b)
of House Rule XIII);
(5) the oversight findings and recommenda-
tions of the Committee with respect to the
subject matter of the bill or resolution, as
required pursuant to clause 3(c)(1) of House
Rule XIII and clause 2(b)(1) of House Rule X;
(6) the detailed statement described in
House Rule XIII clause 3(c)(2) and section
308(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974
if the bill or resolution provides new budget
authority (other than continuing appropria-
tions), new spending authority described in
section 401(c)(2) of such Act, new credit au-
thority, or an increase or decrease in reve-
nues or tax expenditures, except that the es-
timates with respect to new budget author-
ity shall include, when practicable, a com-
parison of the total estimated funding level
for the relevant program (or programs) to
the appropriate levels under current law;
(7) the estimate of costs and comparison of
such estimates, if any, prepared by the Di-
rector of the Congressional Budget Office in
connection with such bill or resolution pur-
suant to section 402 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974 if submitted in timely
fashion to the Committee;
(8) a statement of general performance
goals and objectives, including outcome-re-
lated goals and objectives, for which the
measure authorizes funding;
(9) an estimate by the Committee of the
costs that would be incurred in carrying out
the bill or joint resolution in the fiscal year
in which it is reported and in each of the five
fiscal years following that fiscal year (or for
the authorized duration of any program au-
thorized by the bill or joint resolution if less
than five years) (see clause 3(d)(1) of House
Rule XIII), together with—(i) a comparison
of these estimates with those made and sub-
mitted to the Committee by any Govern-
ment agency when practicable and (ii) a
comparison of the total estimated funding
level for the relevant program (or programs)
with appropriate levels under current law
(The provisions of this clause do not apply if
a cost estimate and comparison prepared by
the Director of the Congressional Budget Of-
fice under section 402 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974 has been timely sub-
mitted prior to the filing of the report and
included in the report);
(10) a list of congressional earmarks, lim-
ited tax benefits, and limited tariff benefits
in the bill or in the report (and the name of
any Member, Delegate, or Resident Commis-
sioner who submitted a request to the Com-
mittee for each respective item included in
such list) or a statement that the propo-
sition contains no congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff bene-
fits;
(11) the changes in existing law (if any)
shown in accordance with clause 3 of House
Rule XIII;
(12) the determination required pursuant
to section 5(b) of P.L. 92–463, if the legisla-
tion reported establishes or authorizes the
establishment of an advisory committee;
(13) the information on Federal and inter-
governmental mandates required by section
423(c) and (d) of the Congressional Budget
Act of 1974, as added by the Unfunded Man-
dates Reform Act of 1995 (P.L. 104–4);
(14) a statement regarding the applica-
bility of section 102(b)(3) of the Congres-
sional Accountability Act (P.L. 104–1);
(15) a statement indicating whether any
provision of the measure establishes or reau-
thorizes a program of the Federal Govern-
ment known to be duplicative of another
Federal program. The Statement shall at a
minimum explain whether—
(A) any such program was included in any
report from the Government Accountability
Office to Congress pursuant to section 21 of
P.L. 111–139; or
(B) the most recent catalog of Federal Do-
mestic Assistance, published pursuant to the
Federal Program Information Act (P.L. 95–
220, as amended by P. L. 98–169), identified
other programs related to the program es-
tablished or reauthorized by the measure;
and
(16) a statement estimating the number of
directed rule makings required by the meas-
ure.
(c) Supplemental, Minority, Additional, or
Dissenting Views.—If, at the time of approval
of any measure or matter by the Committee,
any Member of the Committee gives notice
of intention to file supplemental, minority,
additional, or dissenting views, all Members
shall be entitled to not less than 2 subse-
quent calendar days (excluding Saturdays,
Sundays, and legal holidays except when the
House is in session on such date) in which to
file such written and signed views with the
Majority Staff Director of the Committee.
When time guaranteed by this paragraph has
expired (or, if sooner, when all separate
views have been received), the Committee
may arrange to file its report with the Clerk
of the House not later than 1 hour after the
expiration of such time. All such views (in
accordance with clause 2(1) of House Rule XI
and clause 3(a)(1) of House Rule XIII), as
filed by one or more Members of the Com-
mittee, shall be included within and made a
part of the report filed by the Committee
with respect to that bill or resolution.
(d) Printing of Reports.—The report of the
Committee on the measure or matter noted
in paragraph (a) above shall be printed in a
single volume, which shall:
(1) include all supplemental, minority, ad-
ditional, or dissenting views that have been
submitted by the time of the filing of the re-
port; and
(2) bear on its cover a recital that any such
supplemental, minority, additional, or dis-
senting views (and any material submitted
under clause 3(a)(1) of House Rule XII) are
included as part of the report.
(e) Immediate Printing; Supplemental Re-
ports.—Nothing in this rule shall preclude—
(1) the immediate filing or printing of a
Committee report unless timely request for
the opportunity to file supplemental, minor-
ity, additional, or dissenting views has been
made as provided by paragraph (c); or
(2) the filing by the Committee of any sup-
plemental report on any bill or resolution
that may be required for the correction of
any technical error in a previous report
made by the Committee on that bill or reso-
lution.
(f) Availability of Printed Hearing Records.—
For hearings held related to any reported
bill or resolution, the Committee shall make
every reasonable effort to have the record of
such hearings printed and available for dis-
tribution to the Members of the House prior
to the consideration of such bill or resolu-
tion by the House. Each printed hearing of
the Committee or any of its subcommittees
shall include a record of the attendance of
the Members.
(g) Committee Prints.—All Committee or
Subcommittee prints or other Committee or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.046 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1447
February 7, 2019
Subcommittee documents, other than re-
ports or prints of bills, that are prepared for
public distribution shall be approved by the
Chairman of the Committee or the Com-
mittee prior to public distribution.
(h) Post Adjournment Filing of Committee Re-
ports.—(1) After an adjournment of the last
regular session of a Congress sine die, an in-
vestigative or oversight report approved by
the Committee may be filed with the Clerk
at any time, provided that if a Member gives
notice at the time of approval of intention to
file supplemental, minority, additional, or
dissenting views, that Member shall be enti-
tled to not less than 7 calendar days in which
to submit such views for inclusion with the
report.
(2) After an adjournment of the last reg-
ular session of a Congress sine die, the Chair-
man of the Committee may file at any time
with the Clerk the Committee’s activity re-
port for that Congress pursuant to clause
1(d)(1) of House Rule XI without the approval
of the Committee, provided that a copy of
the report has been available to each Mem-
ber of the Committee for at least 7 calendar
days and the report includes any supple-
mental, minority, additional, or dissenting
views submitted by a Member of the Com-
mittee.
(i) Conference.—The Chairman is directed
to offer a motion under clause 1 of House
Rule XXII whenever the Chairman considers
it appropriate.
RULE X.—OTHER COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES
(a) Oversight Plan.—
(1) Not later than March 1 of the first ses-
sion of the 116th Congress, the Chairman
shall prepare, in consultation with the Rank-
ing Minority Member, an oversight plan; pro-
vide a copy of that plan to each Member of
the Committee for at least seven calendar
days before its submission; and submit such
plan (including any supplemental, minority,
additional, or dissenting views submitted by
a Member of the Committee) simultaneously
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform
and the Committee on House Administration
pursuant to clause 2(d) of House Rule X.
(2) In developing the plan, the Chairman
shall, to the maximum extent feasible—
(A) consult with other committees that
have jurisdiction over the same or related
laws, programs, or agencies with the objec-
tive of ensuring maximum coordination and
cooperation among committees when con-
ducting reviews of such laws, programs, or
agencies and include in the plan an expla-
nation of steps that have been or will be
taken to ensure such coordination and co-
operation;
(B) review specific problems with Federal
rules, regulations, statutes, and court deci-
sions that are ambiguous, arbitrary, or non-
sensical, or that impose severe financial bur-
dens on individuals;
(C) give priority consideration to including
in the plan the review of those laws, pro-
grams, or agencies operating under perma-
nent budget authority or permanent statu-
tory authority;
(D) have a view toward ensuring that all
significant laws, programs, or agencies with-
in the committee’s jurisdiction are subject
to review every 10 years; and
(E) have a view toward insuring against
duplication of Federal programs.
The Committee and its appropriate sub-
committees shall review and study, on a con-
tinuing basis, the impact or probable impact
of tax policies affecting subjects within its
jurisdiction as provided in clause 2(c) of
House Rule X. The Committee shall include
in the report filed pursuant to clause 1(d) of
House Rule XI separate sections summa-
rizing the legislative and oversight activities
of the Committee under House Rule X and
House Rule XI, a summary of the authoriza-
tion and oversight plan submitted by the
Committee under clause 2(d) of House Rule
X, a summary of actions taken and rec-
ommendations made with respect to the
oversight and authorization plan, and a sum-
mary of any additional oversight activities
undertaken by the Committee and any rec-
ommendations made or actions taken there-
on.
(b) Annual Appropriations.—The Committee
shall, in its consideration of all bills and
joint resolutions of a public character within
its jurisdiction, ensure that appropriations
for continuing programs and activities of the
Federal government and the District of Co-
lumbia government will be made annually to
the maximum extent feasible and consistent
with the nature, requirements, and objec-
tives of the programs and activities involved.
The Committee shall review, from time to
time, each continuing program within its ju-
risdiction for which appropriations are not
made annually in order to ascertain whether
such program could be modified so that ap-
propriations therefor would be made annu-
ally.
(c) Budget Act Compliance: Views and Esti-
mates (See Appendix B).—Not later than 6
weeks after the President submits his budget
under section 1105(a) of Title 31, United
States Code, or at such time as the Com-
mittee on the Budget may request, the Com-
mittee shall, submit to the Committee on
the Budget (1) its views and estimates with
respect to all matters to be set forth in the
concurrent resolution on the budget for the
ensuing fiscal year (under section 301 of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974) that are
within its jurisdiction or functions; and (2)
an estimate of the total amounts of new
budget authority, and budget outlays result-
ing therefrom, to be provided or authorized
in all bills and resolutions within its juris-
diction that it intends to be effective during
that fiscal year.
(d) Budget Act Compliance: Recommended
Changes.—Whenever the Committee is di-
rected in a concurrent resolution on the
budget to determine and recommend changes
in laws, bills, or resolutions under the rec-
onciliation process, it shall promptly make
such determination and recommendations
and report a reconciliation bill or resolution
(or both) to the House or submit such rec-
ommendations to the Committee on the
Budget, in accordance with the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974.
(e) Conference Committees.—Whenever in the
legislative process it becomes necessary to
appoint conferees, the Chairman shall, after
consultation with the Ranking Minority
Member, determine the number of conferees
the Chairman deems most suitable and then
recommend to the Speaker as conferees, in
keeping with the number to be appointed by
the Speaker as provided in clause 11 of House
Rule I, the names of those Members of the
Committee of not less than a majority who
generally supported the House position and
who were primarily responsible for the legis-
lation. The Chairman shall, to the fullest ex-
tent feasible, include those Members of the
Committee who were the principal pro-
ponents of the major provisions of the bill as
it passed the House and such other Com-
mittee Members of the majority party as the
Chairman may designate in consultation
with the Members of the majority party.
Such recommendations shall provide a ratio
of majority party Members to minority
party Members no less favorable to the ma-
jority party than the ratio of majority party
Members to minority party Members on the
Committee. In making recommendations of
Minority Party Members as conferees, the
Chairman shall consult with the Ranking
Minority Member of the Committee.
(f) Hearing on Waste, Fraud, and Abuse.—(1)
The Committee, or a Subcommittee, shall
hold at least one hearing during each 120–day
period following the establishment of the
Committee on the topic of waste, fraud,
abuse, or mismanagement in Government
programs which the Committee may author-
ize.
(2) A hearing described in subparagraph (1)
shall include a focus on the most egregious
instances of waste, fraud, abuse, or mis-
management as documented by any report
the Committee has received from a Federal
Office of the Inspector General or the Comp-
troller General of the United States.
(g) Hearing on Agency Financial State-
ments.—The Committee or a Subcommittee,
shall hold at least one hearing in any session
in which the Committee has received dis-
claimers of agency financial statements
from auditors of any Federal agency that the
Committee may authorize to hear testimony
on such disclaimers from representatives of
any such agency.
(h) Hearing on GAO High-Risk-List.—The
Committee or a Subcommittee, shall hold at
least one hearing on issues raised by reports
issued by the Comptroller General of the
United States indicating that Federal pro-
grams or operations that the Committee
may authorize are at high risk for waste,
fraud, and mismanagement, known as the
’high-risk-list’ or the ’high-risk series’.
(i) Member Day Hearing.—During the first
session of a Congress, the Committee will
hold a hearing at which it receives testi-
mony from Members, Delegates, and the
Resident Commissioner on proposed legisla-
tion within its jurisdiction.
(j) Activities Report.—(1) Not later than Jan-
uary 2 of each odd-numbered year, the Com-
mittee shall submit to the House a report on
the activities of the Committee. After ad-
journment sine die of the last regular session
of a Congress, or after December 15 of an
even-numbered year, whichever occurs first,
the Chair may file the report, a copy of
which shall be made available to each Mem-
ber of the Committee for at least 7 calendar
days, with the Clerk of the House at any
time.
(2) Such report shall include separate sec-
tions summarizing the legislative and over-
sight activities of the Committee during
that Congress.
(3) The oversight section of such report
shall include a summary of the oversight
plans submitted by the Committee pursuant
to clause 2(d) of House Rule X, a summary of
the actions taken and recommendations
made with respect to each such plan, and a
summary of any additional oversight activi-
ties undertaken by the Committee, and any
recommendations made or actions taken
with respect thereto.
RULE XI.—SUBCOMMITTEES
(a) Number and Composition.—There shall be
such subcommittees as specified in para-
graph (c) of this rule. Each of such sub-
committees shall be composed of the number
of Members set forth in paragraph (c) of this
rule, including ex officio Members.1 The
Chairman may create additional subcommit-
tees of an ad hoc nature as the Chairman de-
termines to be appropriate, subject to any
limitations provided for in the House Rules.
1 The Chairman and Ranking Minority
Member of the Committee serve as ex officio
Members of the Subcommittees. (See para-
graph (e) of this Rule).
(b) Ratios.—On each Subcommittee, there
shall be a ratio of majority party Members
to minority party Members which shall be
consistent with the ratio on the full Com-
mittee. In calculating the ratio of majority
party Members to minority party Members,
there shall be included the ex officio Members
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.047 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1448 February 7, 2019
of the subcommittees and ratios below re-
flect that fact.
(c) Jurisdiction.—Each Subcommittee shall
have the following general jurisdiction and
number of Members:
General Farm Commodities and Risk Man-
agement (13 members, 7 majority and 6 mi-
nority)—Policies, statutes, and markets re-
lating to commodities including barley, cot-
ton, cottonseed, corn, grain sorghum, honey,
mohair, oats, other oilseeds, peanuts, pulse
crops, rice, soybeans, sugar, wheat, and wool;
the Commodity Credit Corporation; risk
management policies and statutes, including
Federal Crop Insurance; producer data and
privacy issues.
Commodity Exchanges, Energy, and Credit
(20 members, 11 majority and 9 minority)—
Policies, statutes, and markets relating to
commodity exchanges; agricultural credit;
rural development; energy; rural electrifica-
tion.
Conservation and Forestry (11 members, 6
majority and 5 minority)—Policies and stat-
utes relating to resource conservation, for-
estry, and all forests under the jurisdiction
of the Committee on Agriculture.
Nutrition, Oversight, and Department Op-
erations (16 members, 9 majority and 7 mi-
nority)—Policies and statutes relating to nu-
trition, including the Supplemental Nutri-
tion Assistance Program and domestic com-
modity distribution and consumer initiative;
departmental and agency oversight; and spe-
cial investigations.
Biotechnology, Horticulture, and Research
(23 members, 13 majority and 10 minority)—
Policies, statutes, and markets relating to
horticulture, including fruits, vegetables,
nuts, and ornamentals; bees; and organic ag-
riculture; policies and statutes relating to
marketing and promotion orders; pest and
disease management, including pesticides;
bioterrorism; adulteration and quarantine
matters; research, education, and extension;
and biotechnology.
Livestock and Foreign Agriculture (22
members, 12 majority and 10 minority)—
Policies, statutes, and markets relating to
all livestock, poultry, dairy, and seafood, in-
cluding all products thereof; the inspection,
marketing, and promotion of such commod-
ities and products; aquaculture; animal wel-
fare; grazing; foreign agricultural assistance
and trade promotion.
(d) Referral of Legislation.—
(1)(a) In General.—All bills, resolutions,
and other matters referred to the Committee
shall be referred to all subcommittees of ap-
propriate jurisdiction within 2 weeks after
being referred to the Committee. After con-
sultation with the Ranking Minority Mem-
ber, the Chairman may determine that the
Committee will consider certain bills, reso-
lutions, or other matters.
(b) Trade Matters.—Unless action is other-
wise taken under subparagraph (3), bills, res-
olutions, and other matters referred to the
Committee relating to foreign agriculture,
foreign food or commodity assistance, and
foreign trade and marketing issues will be
considered by the Committee.
(2) The Chairman, by a majority vote of
the Committee, may discharge a Sub-
committee from further consideration of any
bill, resolution, or other matter referred to
the Subcommittee and have such bill, resolu-
tion, or other matter considered by the Com-
mittee. The Committee having referred a
bill, resolution, or other matter to a Sub-
committee in accordance with this rule may
discharge such Subcommittee from further
consideration thereof at any time by a vote
of the majority Members of the Committee
for the Committee’s direct consideration or
for reference to another Subcommittee.
(3) Unless the Committee, a quorum being
present, decides otherwise by a majority
vote, the Chairman may refer bills, resolu-
tions, legislation, or other matters not spe-
cifically within the jurisdiction of a Sub-
committee, or that is within the jurisdiction
of more than one Subcommittee, jointly or
exclusively as the Chairman deems appro-
priate, including concurrently to the sub-
committees with jurisdiction, sequentially
to the subcommittees with jurisdiction (sub-
ject to any time limits deemed appropriate),
divided by subject matter among the sub-
committees with jurisdiction, or to an ad hoc
subcommittee appointed by the Chairman
for the purpose of considering the matter
and reporting to the Committee thereon, or
make such other provisions deemed appro-
priate.
(e) Participation and Service of Committee
Members on Subcommittees.—(1) The Chairman
and the Ranking Minority Member shall
serve as ex officio Members of all subcommit-
tees and shall have the right to vote on all
matters before the subcommittees. The
Chairman and the Ranking Minority Member
may not be counted for the purpose of estab-
lishing a quorum.
(2) Any Member of the Committee who is
not a Member of the Subcommittee may
have the privilege of sitting and
nonparticipatory attendance at Sub-
committee hearings or meetings in accord-
ance with clause 2(g)(2) of House Rule XI.
Such Member may not:
(i) vote on any matter;
(ii) be counted for the purpose of a estab-
lishing a quorum;
(iii) participate in questioning a witness
under the 5–Minute Rule, unless permitted to
do so by the Subcommittee Chairman in con-
sultation with the Ranking Minority Mem-
ber or a majority of the Subcommittee, a
quorum being present;
(iv) raise points of order; or
(v) offer amendments or motions.
(f) Subcommittee Hearings and Meetings.—(1)
Each Subcommittee is authorized to meet,
hold hearings, receive evidence, and make
recommendations to the Committee on all
matters referred to it or under its jurisdic-
tion after consultation by the Subcommittee
Chairman with the Committee Chairman.
(See Committee Rule VIII.)
(2) After consultation with the Committee
Chairman, Subcommittee Chairmen shall set
dates for hearings and meetings of their sub-
committees and shall request the Majority
Staff Director to make any announcement
relating thereto. (See paragraph (b) of Com-
mittee Rule VIII.) In setting the dates, the
Committee Chairman and Subcommittee
Chairman shall consult with other Sub-
committee Chairmen and relevant Com-
mittee and Subcommittee Ranking Minority
Members in an effort to avoid simulta-
neously scheduling Committee and Sub-
committee meetings or hearings to the ex-
tent practicable.
(3) Notice of all Subcommittee meetings
shall be provided to the Chairman and the
Ranking Minority Member of the Committee
by the Majority Staff Director.
(4) Subcommittees may hold meetings or
hearings outside of the House if the Chair-
man of the Committee and other Sub-
committee Chairmen and the Ranking Mi-
nority Member of the Subcommittee is con-
sulted in advance to ensure that there is no
scheduling problem. However, the majority
of the Committee may authorize such meet-
ing or hearing.
(5) The provisions regarding notice and the
agenda of Committee meetings under para-
graph (a) of Committee Rule II and special or
additional meetings under paragraph (b) of
Committee Rule II shall apply to Sub-
committee meetings.
(6) If a vacancy occurs in a Subcommittee
chairmanship, the Chairman may set the
dates for hearings and meetings of the Sub-
committee during the period of vacancy. The
Chairman may also appoint an acting Sub-
committee Chairman until the vacancy is
filled.
(g) Subcommittee Action.—(1) Any bill, reso-
lution, recommendation, or other matter for-
warded to the Committee by a Sub-
committee shall be promptly forwarded by
the Subcommittee Chairman or any Sub-
committee Member authorized to do so by
the Subcommittee.
(2) Upon receipt of such recommendation,
the Majority Staff Director of the Com-
mittee shall promptly advise all Members of
the Committee of the Subcommittee action.
(3) The Committee shall not consider any
matters recommended by subcommittees
until 2 calendar days have elapsed from the
date of action, unless the Chairman or a ma-
jority of the Committee determines other-
wise.
(h) Subcommittee Investigations.—No inves-
tigation shall be initiated by a Sub-
committee without prior consultation with
the Chairman of the Committee or a major-
ity of the Committee.
RULE XII.—COMMITTEE BUDGET, STAFF, AND
TRAVEL
(a) Committee Budget.—The Chairman, in
consultation with the majority Members of
the Committee and the minority Members of
the Committee, shall prepare a preliminary
budget for each session of the Congress. Such
budget shall include necessary amounts for
staff personnel, travel, investigation, and
other expenses of the Committee and sub-
committees. After consultation with the
Ranking Minority Member, the Chairman
shall include an amount budgeted to minor-
ity Members for staff under their direction
and supervision. Thereafter, the Chairman
shall combine such proposals into a consoli-
dated Committee budget and shall take
whatever action is necessary to have such
budget duly authorized by the House.
(b) Committee Staff.—(1) The Chairman shall
appoint and determine the remuneration of,
and may remove, the professional and cler-
ical employees of the Committee not as-
signed to the minority. The professional and
clerical staff of the Committee not assigned
to the minority shall be under the general
supervision and direction of the Chairman,
who shall establish and assign the duties and
responsibilities of such staff members and
delegate such authority as he or she deter-
mines appropriate. (See clause 9 of House
Rule X)
(2) The Ranking Minority Member of the
Committee shall appoint and determine the
remuneration of, and may remove, the pro-
fessional and clerical staff assigned to the
minority within the budget approved for
such purposes. The professional and clerical
staff assigned to the minority shall be under
the general supervision and direction of the
Ranking Minority Member of the Committee
who may delegate such authority as he or
she determines appropriate.
(3) From the funds made available for the
appointment of Committee staff pursuant to
any primary or additional expense resolu-
tion, the Chairman shall ensure that each
Subcommittee is adequately funded and
staffed to discharge its responsibilities and
that the minority party is fairly treated in
the appointment of such staff (See clause
6(d) of House Rule X).
(c) Committee Travel.—(1) Consistent with
the primary expense resolution and such ad-
ditional expense resolution as may have been
approved, the provisions of this rule shall
govern official travel of Committee Members
and Committee staff regarding domestic and
foreign travel (See clause 8 of House Rule X).
Official travel for any Member or any Com-
mittee staff member shall be paid only upon
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:13 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.047 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1449
February 7, 2019
the prior authorization of the Chairman. Of-
ficial travel may be authorized by the Chair-
man for any Committee Member and any
Committee staff member in connection with
the attendance of hearings conducted by the
Committee and its subcommittees and meet-
ings, conferences, facility inspections, and
investigations which involve activities or
subject matter relevant to the general juris-
diction of the Committee. Before such au-
thorization is given there shall be submitted
to the Chairman in writing the following:
(i) The purpose of the official travel;
(ii) The dates during which the official
travel is to be made and the date or dates of
the event for which the official travel is
being made;
(iii) The location of the event for which the
official travel is to be made; and
(iv) The names of Members and Committee
staff seeking authorization.
(2) In the case of official travel of Members
and staff of a Subcommittee to hearings,
meetings, conferences, facility inspections,
and investigations involving activities or
subject matter under the jurisdiction of such
Subcommittee to be paid for out of funds al-
located to the Committee, prior authoriza-
tion must be obtained from the Sub-
committee Chairman and the full Committee
Chairman. Such prior authorization shall be
given by the Chairman only upon the rep-
resentation by the applicable Subcommittee
Chairman in writing setting forth those
items enumerated in clause (1).
(3) Within 60 days of the conclusion of any
official travel authorized under this rule,
there shall be submitted to the Committee
Chairman a written report covering the in-
formation gained as a result of the hearing,
meeting, conference, facility inspection, or
investigation attended pursuant to such offi-
cial travel.
(4) Local currencies owned by the United
States shall be made available to the Com-
mittee and its employees engaged in car-
rying out their official duties outside the
United States, its territories or possessions.
No appropriated funds shall be expended for
the purpose of defraying expenses of Mem-
bers of the Committee or its employees in
any country where local currencies are avail-
able for this purpose, and the following con-
ditions shall apply with respect to their use
of such currencies;
(i) No Member or employee of the Com-
mittee shall receive or expend local cur-
rencies for subsistence in any country at a
rate in excess of the maximum per diem rate
set forth in applicable Federal law; and
(ii) Each Member or employee of the Com-
mittee shall make an itemized report to the
Chairman within 60 days following the com-
pletion of travel showing the dates each
country was visited, the amount of per diem
furnished, the cost of transportation fur-
nished, and any funds expended for any other
official purpose, and shall summarize in
these categories the total foreign currencies
and appropriated funds expended. All such
individual reports shall be filed by the Chair-
man with the Committee on House Adminis-
tration and shall be open to public inspec-
tion.
RULE XIII.—AMENDMENT OF RULES
These Rules may be amended by a major-
ity vote of the Committee. A proposed
change in these Rules shall not be considered
by the Committee as provided in clause 2 of
House Rule XI, unless written notice of the
proposed change has been provided to each
Committee Member 2 legislative days in ad-
vance of the date on which the matter is to
be considered. Any such change in the Rules
of the Committee shall be published in the
Congressional Record within 30 calendar days
after its approval.
PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE
RULES
RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND
SECURITY FOR THE 116TH CONGRESS
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, February 7, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to clause
2(a) of rule XI of the Rules of the House of
Representatives, I submit the Rules of the
Committee on Homeland Security for the
116th Congress for publication in the Con-
gressional Record. On January 30, 2019, the
Committee on Homeland Security met in
open session and adopted these Committee
Rules by unanimous consent, a quorum being
present.
Sincerely,
BENNIE G. THOMPSON,
Chairman.
RULE I.—GENERAL PROVISIONS
(A) Applicability of the Rules of the U.S.
House of Representatives.—The Rules of the
U.S. House of Representatives (the ‘‘House’’)
are the rules of the Committee on Homeland
Security (the ‘‘Committee’’) and its sub-
committees insofar as applicable.
(B) Applicability to Subcommittees.—Except
where the terms ‘‘Full Committee’’ and
‘‘subcommittee’’ are specifically mentioned,
the following rules shall apply to the Com-
mittee’s subcommittees and their respective
Chairmen and Ranking Minority Members to
the same extent as they apply to the Full
Committee and its Chairman and Ranking
Minority Member.
(C) Appointments by the Chairman.—Clause
2(d) of Rule XI of the House shall govern the
designation of a Vice Chairman of the Full
Committee.
(D) Conferences.—The Chairman is author-
ized to offer a motion under clause 1 of Rule
XXII of the Rules of the House whenever the
Chairman considers it appropriate.
(E) Committee Website.—The Chairman shall
maintain an official Committee web site for
the purposes of furthering the Committee’s
legislative and oversight responsibilities, in-
cluding communicating information about
the Committee’s activities to Committee
Members, other Members, and the public at
large. The Ranking Minority Member may
maintain a similar web site for the same pur-
poses. The official Committee web site shall
display a link on its home page to the web
site maintained by the Ranking Minority
Member.
(F) Activity Report.—The Committee shall
submit a report to the House on the activi-
ties of the Committee in accordance with
House rule XI 1(d).
RULE II.—SUBCOMMITTEES
(A) Generally.—The Full Committee shall
be organized into the following six standing
subcommittees and each shall have specific
responsibility for such measures or matters
as the Chairman refers to it:
(1) Subcommittee on Border Security, Fa-
cilitation, and Operations
(2) Subcommittee on Cybersecurity, Infra-
structure Protection, and Innovation
(3) Subcommittee on Emergency Prepared-
ness, Response, and Recovery
(4) Subcommittee on Intelligence and
Counterterrorism
(5) Subcommittee on Oversight, Manage-
ment, and Accountability
(6) Subcommittee on Transportation and
Maritime Security
(B) Selection and Ratio of Subcommittee Mem-
bers.—The Chairman and Ranking Minority
Member of the Full Committee shall select
their respective Members of each sub-
committee. The ratio of Majority to Minor-
ity Members shall be comparable to the Full
Committee, consistent with the party ratios
established by the Majority party, except
that each subcommittee shall have at least
two more Majority Members than Minority
Members.
(C) Ex Officio Members.—The Chairman and
Ranking Minority Member of the Full Com-
mittee shall be ex officio members of each
subcommittee but are not authorized to vote
on matters that arise before each sub-
committee. The Chairman and Ranking Mi-
nority Member of the Full Committee shall
only be counted to satisfy the quorum re-
quirement for the purpose of taking testi-
mony and receiving evidence.
(D) Powers and Duties of Subcommittees.—
Except as otherwise directed by the Chair-
man of the Full Committee, each sub-
committee is authorized to meet, hold hear-
ings, receive testimony, mark up legislation,
and report to the Full Committee on all mat-
ters within its purview. Subcommittee
Chairmen shall set hearing and meeting
dates only with the approval of the Chair-
man of the Full Committee. To the greatest
extent practicable, no more than one meet-
ing and hearing should be scheduled for a
given time.
RULE III.—SPECIAL COMMITTEE PANELS
(A) Designation.—The Chairman of the Full
Committee may designate a special panel of
the Committee consisting of Members of the
Committee to inquire into and take testi-
mony on a matter or matters that warrant
enhanced consideration, and to report to the
Committee.
(B) Party Ratios and Appointment.—The
chairman of a special panel shall be ap-
pointed by the Chairman of the Full Com-
mittee. The Ranking Minority Member of
the Full Committee may select a ranking
minority member for a special panel and
may appoint additional minority members,
consistent with the ratio of the full com-
mittee. The Chairman and Ranking Minority
Member may serve as ex officio members.
(C) Duration.—No special panel shall con-
tinue in existence for more than six months.
(D) Jurisdiction.—No panel shall have legis-
lative jurisdiction.
RULE IV.—REGULAR MEETINGS
(A) Regular Meeting Date.—The regular
meeting date and time for the transaction of
business of the Full Committee shall be at
10:00 a.m. on the first Wednesday that the
House is in Session each month, unless oth-
erwise directed by the Chairman.
(B) Additional Meetings.—At the discretion
of the Chairman, additional meetings of the
Committee may be scheduled for the consid-
eration of any legislation or other matters
pending before the Committee, or to conduct
other Committee business. The Committee
shall meet for such purposes pursuant to the
call of the Chairman.
(C) Consideration.—Except in the case of a
special meeting held under clause 2(c)(2) of
House Rule XI, the determination of the
business to be considered at each meeting of
the Committee shall be made by the Chair-
man.
RULE V.—NOTICE AND PUBLICATION
(A) Notice.—
(1) Hearings.—
(a) Pursuant to clause 2(g)(3) of rule XI of
the Rules of the House of Representatives,
the Chairman of the Committee shall make
public announcement of the date, place, and
subject matter of any hearing before the Full
Committee or subcommittee, which may not
commence earlier than one week after such
notice.
(b) However, a hearing may begin sooner
than specified in (a) if the Chairman of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.048 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1450 February 7, 2019
Committee, with the concurrence of the
Ranking Minority Member, determines that
there is good cause to begin such hearing
sooner, or if the Committee so determines by
majority vote, a quorum being present for
the transaction of business. If such a deter-
mination is made, the Chairman shall make
the announcement required under (a) at the
earliest possible date. To the extent prac-
ticable, the names of all witnesses scheduled
to appear at such hearing shall be provided
to Members no later than 48 hours prior to
the commencement of such hearing.
(2) Meetings.—
(a) The Chair shall announce the date,
time, place and subject matter of any meet-
ing, which may not commence earlier than
the third calendar day (excluding Saturdays,
Sundays, or legal holidays except when the
House is in session on such a day) on which
Members have notice thereof except in the
case of a special meeting called under clause
2(c)(2) of House Rule XI. These notice re-
quirements may be waived if the Chairman
with the concurrence of the Ranking Minor-
ity Member, determines that there is good
cause to begin the meeting sooner or if the
Committee so determines by majority vote,
a quorum being present for the transaction
of business.
(b) At least 48 hours prior to the com-
mencement of a meeting for the markup of
legislation, or at the time of announcement
of the meeting, if less than 48 hours under
Rule V(A)(2), the text of such legislation to
be marked up shall be provided to the Mem-
bers, made publicly available in electronic
form, and posted on the official Committee
web site.
(c) Not later than 24 hours after concluding
a meeting to consider legislation, the text of
such legislation as ordered, forwarded or re-
ported, including any amendments adopted
or defeated, shall be made publicly available
in electronic form and posted on the official
Committee web site.
(3) Briefings.—The Chairman shall provide
notice of the date, time, place, and subject
matter of a Member briefing. To the extent
practicable, a Member briefing shall not
commence earlier than the third day on
which Members have notice thereof.
(B) Publication.—House Rule XI 2(g)(3)(C) is
hereby incorporated by reference.
RULE VI.—OPEN MEETINGS AND HEARINGS;
BROADCASTING
(A) Open Meetings.—
(1) All meetings and hearings of the Com-
mittee shall be open to the public including
to radio, television, and still photography
coverage, except as provided by Rule XI of
the Rules of the House or when the Com-
mittee, in open session and with a majority
present, determines by recorded vote that all
or part of the remainder of that hearing on
that day shall be closed to the public because
disclosure of testimony, evidence, or other
matters to be considered would endanger the
national security, compromise sensitive law
enforcement information, tend to defame,
degrade or incriminate a witness, or violate
any law or rule of the House of Representa-
tives.
(2) The Committee or Subcommittee may
meet in executive session for up to five addi-
tional consecutive days of hearings if agreed
to by the same procedure.
(B) Broadcasting.—Whenever any hearing or
meeting conducted by the Committee is open
to the public, the Committee shall permit
that hearing or meeting to be covered by tel-
evision broadcast, internet broadcast, print
media, and still photography, or by any of
such methods of coverage, in accordance
with the provisions of clause 4 of Rule XI of
the Rules of the House. Operation and use of
any Committee operated broadcast system
shall be fair and nonpartisan and in accord-
ance with clause 4(b) of Rule XI and all other
applicable rules of the Committee and the
House. Priority shall be given by the Com-
mittee to members of the Press Galleries.
Pursuant to clause 2(e) of rule XI of the
Rules of the House of Representatives, the
Committee shall, to the greatest extent
practicable, provide audio and video cov-
erage of each hearing or meeting in a man-
ner that allows the public to easily listen to
and view the proceedings and shall maintain
the recordings of such coverage in a manner
that is easily accessible to the public.
(C) Transcripts.—A transcript shall be made
of the testimony of each witness appearing
before the Committee during a Committee
hearing. All transcripts of meetings or hear-
ings that are open to the public shall be
made available.
RULE VII.—PROCEDURES FOR MEETINGS AND
HEARINGS
(A) Opening Statements.—At any meeting of
the Committee, the Chairman and Ranking
Minority Member shall be entitled to present
oral opening statements of five minutes
each. Other Members may submit written
opening statements for the record. The
Chairman presiding over the meeting may
permit additional opening statements by
other Members of the Full Committee or of
that subcommittee, with the concurrence of
the Ranking Minority Member.
(B) The Five-Minute Rule.—The time any
one Member may address the Committee on
any bill, motion, or other matter under con-
sideration by the Committee shall not ex-
ceed five minutes, and then only when the
Member has been recognized by the Chair-
man, except that this time limit may be ex-
tended when permitted by unanimous con-
sent.
(C) Postponement of Vote.—The Chairman
may postpone further proceedings when a
record vote is ordered on the question of ap-
proving any measure or matter or adopting
an amendment and may resume proceedings
on a postponed vote at any time after rea-
sonable notice to Members by the Clerk or
other designee of the Chairman. When pro-
ceedings resume on a postponed question,
notwithstanding any intervening order for
the previous question, an underlying propo-
sition shall remain subject to further debate
or amendment to the same extent as when
the question was postponed.
(D) Record.—Members may have 10 business
days to submit to the Chief Clerk of the
Committee their statements for the record,
and, in the case of a hearing, additional
questions for the hearing record to be di-
rected towards a witness at the hearing.
RULE VIII.—WITNESSES
(A) Questioning of Witnesses—
(1) Questioning of witnesses by Members
will be conducted under the five-minute rule
unless the Committee adopts a motion per-
mitted by clause 2(j)(2) of House Rule XI.
(2) In questioning witnesses under the five-
minute rule, the Chairman and the Ranking
Minority Member shall first be recognized.
In a subcommittee meeting or hearing, the
Chairman and Ranking Minority Member of
the Full Committee are then recognized. All
other Members who are present before the
commencement of the meeting or hearing
will be recognized in the order of seniority
on the Committee, alternating between Ma-
jority and Minority Members. Committee
Members arriving after the commencement
of the hearing shall be recognized in order of
appearance, alternating between Majority
and Minority Members, after all Members
present at the beginning of the hearing have
been recognized. To the extent practicable,
each Member shall be recognized at least
once before any Member is given a second
opportunity to question a witness.
(3) The Chairman, in consultation with the
Ranking Minority Member, or the Com-
mittee by motion, may permit a specified
number of Members to question a witness for
a period longer than five minutes, but the
time allotted must be equally apportioned to
the Majority party and the Minority and
may not exceed one hour in the aggregate.
(4) The Chairman, in consultation with the
Ranking Minority Member, or the Com-
mittee by motion, may permit Committee
staff of the Majority and Minority to ques-
tion a witness for a specified period of time,
but the time allotted must be equally appor-
tioned to the Majority and Minority staff
and may not exceed one hour in the aggre-
gate.
(B) Minority Witnesses.— House Rule XI 2
(j)(1) is hereby incorporated by reference.
(C) Oath or Affirmation.—The Chairman of
the Committee or any Member designated by
the Chairman, may administer an oath to
any witness.
(D) Statements by Witnesses.—
(1) Consistent with the notice given, and to
the greatest extent practicable, each witness
shall submit a prepared or written statement
for the record of the proceedings (including,
where practicable, an electronic copy) with
the Clerk of the Committee no less than 48
hours in advance of the witness’s appearance
before the Committee.
(2) In the case of a witness appearing in a
non-governmental capacity, a written state-
ment of proposed testimony shall include a
curriculum vita and a disclosure of any Fed-
eral grants or contracts, or contracts or pay-
ments originating with a foreign govern-
ment, received during the current calendar
year or either of the two preceding calendar
years by the witness or by an entity rep-
resented by the witness and related to the
subject matter of the hearing. Such disclo-
sures shall include the amount and source of
each Federal grant (or subgrant thereof) or
contract (or subcontract thereof) related to
the subject matter of the hearing, and the
amount and country of origin of any pay-
ment or contract related to the subject mat-
ter jurisdiction of the hearing originating
with a foreign government. Such statements,
with the appropriate redactions to protect
the privacy or security of the witness, shall
be made publicly available in electronic form
not later than one day after the witness ap-
pears.
RULE IX.—QUORUM
Quorum Requirements.—Two Members shall
constitute a quorum for purposes of taking
testimony and receiving evidence. One-third
of the Members of the Committee shall con-
stitute a quorum for conducting business, ex-
cept for (1) reporting a measure or rec-
ommendation; (2) closing Committee meet-
ings to the public, pursuant to Committee
Rule IV; (3) any other action for which an ac-
tual majority quorum is required by any rule
of the House of Representatives or by law.
The Chairman’s staff shall consult with the
Ranking Minority Member’s staff when
scheduling meetings and hearings, to ensure
that a quorum for any purpose will include
at least one Minority Member of the Com-
mittee.
RULE X.—DECORUM
(A) Breaches of Decorum.—The Chairman
may punish breaches of order and decorum,
by censure and exclusion from a hearing or
meeting; and the Committee may cite the of-
fender to the House for contempt.
(B) Access to Dais.—Access to the dais be-
fore, during, and after a hearing, markup, or
other meeting of the Committee shall be
limited to Members and staff of the Com-
mittee. Subject to availability of space on
the dais, Committee Members’ personal staff
may be present on the dais during a hearing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.062 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1451
February 7, 2019
if their employing Member is seated on the
dais and during a markup or other meeting if
their employing Member is the author of a
measure or amendment under consideration
by the Committee, but only during the time
that the measure or amendment is under ac-
tive consideration by the Committee, or oth-
erwise at the discretion of the Chairman, or
of the Ranking Minority Member for per-
sonal staff employed by a Minority Member.
(C) Wireless Communications Use Prohib-
ited.—During a hearing, mark-up, or other
meeting of the Committee, ringing or audi-
ble sounds or conversational use of cellular
telephones or other electronic devices is pro-
hibited in the Committee room.
RULE XI.—REFERRALS TO SUBCOMMITTEES
Referral of Bills and Other Matters by Chair-
man.—Except for bills and other matters re-
tained by the Chairman for Full Committee
consideration, each bill or other matter re-
ferred to the Full Committee shall be re-
ferred by the Chairman to one or more sub-
committees within two weeks of receipt by
the Committee. In referring any measure or
matter to a subcommittee, the Chair may
specify a date by which the subcommittee
shall report thereon to the Full Committee.
Bills or other matters referred to sub-
committees may be reassigned or discharged
by the Chairman.
RULE XII.—SUBPOENAS; COUNSEL
(A) Authorization.— The power to authorize
and issue subpoenas is delegated to the
Chairman of the Full Committee, as pro-
vided for under clause 2(m)(3)(A)(i) of Rule
XI of the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives. The Chairman shall notify the Rank-
ing Minority Member prior to issuing any
subpoena under such authority. To the ex-
tent practicable, the Chairman shall consult
with the Ranking Minority Member at least
24 hours in advance of a subpoena being
issued under such authority, excluding Sat-
urdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays. The
Chairman of the Full Committee shall notify
Members of the Committee of the authoriza-
tion and issuance of a subpoena under this
rule as soon as practicable, but in no event
later than one week after service of such
subpoena.
(B) Disclosure.—Provisions may be included
in a subpoena with the concurrence of the
Chairman and the Ranking Minority Member
of the Full Committee, or by the Committee,
to prevent the disclosure of the Full Com-
mittee’s demands for information when
deemed necessary for the security of infor-
mation or the progress of an investigation,
including but not limited to prohibiting the
revelation by witnesses and their counsel of
Full Committee’s inquiries.
(C) Subpoena duces tecum.—A subpoena
duces tecum may be issued whose return to
the Committee Clerk shall occur at a time
and place other than that of a regularly
scheduled meeting.
(D) Counsel.—When representing a witness
or entity before the Committee in response
to a document request, request for tran-
scribed interview, or subpoena from the
Committee, or in connection with testimony
before the Committee at a hearing, counsel
for the witness or entity must promptly sub-
mit to the Committee a notice of appearance
specifying the following: (a) counsel’s name,
firm or organization, and contact informa-
tion; and (b) each client represented by the
counsel in connection with the proceeding.
Submission of a notice of appearance con-
stitutes acknowledgement that counsel is
authorized to accept service of process by
the Committee on behalf of such client(s),
and that counsel is bound by and agrees to
comply with all applicable House and Com-
mittee rules and regulations.
(E) Deposition Authority.—Section 103 of H.
Res 6 is hereby incorporated by reference.
RULE XIII.—COMMITTEE STAFF
(A) Generally.—Committee staff members
are subject to the provisions of clause 9 of
House Rule X and must be eligible to be con-
sidered for routine access to classified infor-
mation.
(B) Staff Assignments.—For purposes of
these rules, Committee staff means the em-
ployees of the Committee, detailees, fellows,
interns, or any other person engaged by con-
tract or otherwise to perform services for, or
at the request of, the Committee. All such
persons shall be either Majority, Minority,
or shared staff. The Chairman shall appoint,
supervise, where applicable determine remu-
neration of, and may remove Majority staff.
The Ranking Minority Member shall ap-
point, supervise, where applicable determine
remuneration of, and may remove Minority
staff. In consultation with the Ranking Mi-
nority Member, the Chairman may appoint,
supervise, determine remuneration of and
may remove shared staff that is assigned to
service of the Committee. The Chairman
shall certify Committee staff appointments,
including appointments by the Ranking Mi-
nority Member, as required.
(C) Divulgence of Information.—Prior to the
public acknowledgement by the Chairman or
the Committee of a decision to initiate an
investigation of a particular person, entity,
or subject, no member of the Committee
staff shall knowingly divulge to any person
any information, including non-classified in-
formation, which comes into his or her pos-
session by virtue of his or her status as a
member of the Committee staff, if the mem-
ber of the Committee staff has a reasonable
expectation that such information may alert
the subject of a Committee investigation to
the existence, nature, or substance of such
investigation, unless authorized to do so by
the Chairman or the Committee.
RULE XIV.—CLASSIFIED AND CONTROLLED
UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION
(A) Security Precautions.—Committee staff
offices, including Majority and Minority of-
fices, shall operate under strict security pre-
cautions administered by the Security Offi-
cer of the Committee. A security officer
shall be on duty at all times during normal
office hours. Classified documents and con-
trolled unclassified information (CUI)—for-
merly known as sensitive but unclassified
(SBU) information—may be destroyed, dis-
cussed, examined, handled, reviewed, stored,
transported and used only in an appro-
priately secure manner in accordance with
all applicable laws, executive orders, and
other governing authorities. Such documents
may be removed from the Committee’s of-
fices only in furtherance of official Com-
mittee business. Appropriate security proce-
dures, as determined by the Chairman in
consultation with the Ranking Minority
Member, shall govern the handling of such
documents removed from the Committee’s
offices.
(B) Temporary Custody of Executive Branch
Material.—Executive branch documents or
other materials containing classified infor-
mation in any form that were not made part
of the record of a Committee hearing, did not
originate in the Committee or the House,
and are not otherwise records of the Com-
mittee shall, while in the custody of the
Committee, be segregated and maintained by
the Committee in the same manner as Com-
mittee records that are classified. Such doc-
uments and other materials shall be re-
turned to the Executive branch agency from
which they were obtained at the earliest
practicable time.
(C) Access by Committee Staff.—Access to
classified information supplied to the Com-
mittee shall be limited to Committee staff
members with appropriate security clear-
ances and a need-to-know, as determined by
the Chairman or Ranking Minority Member,
and under the direction of the Majority or
Minority Staff Directors.
(D) Maintaining Confidentiality.—No Com-
mittee Member or Committee staff shall dis-
close, in whole or in part or by way of sum-
mary, to any person who is not a Committee
Member or authorized Committee staff for
any purpose or in connection with any pro-
ceeding, judicial or otherwise, any testimony
given before the Committee in executive ses-
sion except for purposes of obtaining an offi-
cial classification of such testimony. Classi-
fied information and controlled unclassified
information (CUI) shall be handled in accord-
ance with all applicable laws, executive or-
ders, and other governing authorities and
consistently with the provisions of these
rules and Committee procedures.
(E) Oath.—Before a Committee Member or
Committee staff may have access to classi-
fied information, the following oath (or affir-
mation) shall be executed:
I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will
not disclose any classified information re-
ceived in the course of my service on the
Committee on Homeland Security, except as
authorized by the Committee or the House of
Representatives or in accordance with the
Rules of such Committee or the Rules of the
House.
Copies of the executed oath (or affirma-
tion) shall be retained by the Clerk of the
Committee as part of the records of the Com-
mittee.
(F) Disciplinary Action.—The Chairman
shall immediately consider disciplinary ac-
tion in the event any Committee Member or
Committee staff member fails to conform to
the provisions of these rules governing the
disclosure of classified or unclassified infor-
mation. Such disciplinary action may in-
clude, but shall not be limited to, immediate
dismissal from the Committee staff, criminal
referral to the Justice Department, and noti-
fication of the Speaker of the House. With
respect to Minority staff, the Chairman shall
consider such disciplinary action in con-
sultation with the Ranking Minority Mem-
ber.
RULE XV.—COMMITTEE RECORDS
(A) Committee Records.— House Rule XI 2(e)
is hereby incorporated by reference.
(B) Legislative Calendar.—The Clerk of the
Committee shall maintain a printed calendar
for the information of each Committee Mem-
ber showing any procedural or legislative
measures considered or scheduled to be con-
sidered by the Committee, and the status of
such measures and such other matters as the
Committee determines shall be included. The
calendar shall be revised from time to time
to show pertinent changes. A copy of such re-
visions shall be made available to each Mem-
ber of the Committee upon request.
(C) Members Right To Access.—Members of
the Committee and of the House shall have
access to all official Committee Records. Ac-
cess to Committee files shall be limited to
examination within the Committee offices at
reasonable times. Access to Committee
Records that contain classified information
shall be provided in a manner consistent
with these rules.
(D) Removal of Committee Records.—Files
and records of the Committee are not to be
removed from the Committee offices. No
Committee files or records that are not made
publicly available shall be photocopied by
any Member.
(E) Executive Session Records.—Evidence or
testimony received by the Committee in ex-
ecutive session shall not be released or made
available to the public unless authorized by
the Committee, a majority being present.
Such information may be made available to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:26 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.063 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1452 February 7, 2019
appropriate government personnel for pur-
poses of classification. Members may exam-
ine the Committee’s executive session
records, but may not make copies of, or take
personal notes from, such records.
(F) Availability of Committee Records.—The
Committee shall keep a complete record of
all Committee action including recorded
votes and attendance at hearings and meet-
ings. Information so available for public in-
spection shall include a description of each
amendment, motion, order, or other propo-
sition, including the name of the Member
who offered the amendment, motion, order,
or other proposition, and the name of each
Member voting for and each Member voting
against each such amendment, motion,
order, or proposition, as well as the names of
those Members present but not voting. Such
record shall be made available to the public
at reasonable times within the Committee
offices and also made publicly available in
electronic form and posted on the official
Committee web site within 48 hours of such
record vote.
(G) Separate and Distinct.—All Committee
records and files must be kept separate and
distinct from the office records of the Mem-
bers serving as Chairman and Ranking Mi-
nority Member. Records and files of Mem-
bers’ personal offices shall not be considered
records or files of the Committee.
(H) Disposition of Committee Records.—At
the conclusion of each Congress, non-current
records of the Committee shall be delivered
to the Archivist of the United States in ac-
cordance with Rule VII of the Rules of the
House.
(I) Archived Records.—The records of the
Committee at the National Archives and
Records Administration shall be made avail-
able for public use in accordance with Rule
VII of the Rules of the House. The Chairman
shall notify the Ranking Minority Member
of any decision, pursuant to clause 3(b)(3) or
clause 4(b) of the Rule, to withhold a record
otherwise available, and the matter shall be
presented to the Committee for a determina-
tion on the written request of any member of
the Committee. The Chairman shall consult
with the Ranking Minority Member on any
communication from the Archivist of the
United States or the Clerk of the House con-
cerning the disposition of noncurrent records
pursuant to clause 3(b) of the Rule.
RULE XVI.—COMMITTEE RULES
(A) Availability of Committee Rules in Elec-
tronic Form.—House Rule XI 2(a) is hereby in-
corporated by reference.
(B) Changes to Committee Rules.—These
rules may be modified, amended, or repealed
by the Full Committee provided that a no-
tice in writing of the proposed change has
been given to each Member at least 48 hours
prior to the meeting at which action thereon
is to be taken and such changes are not in-
consistent with the Rules of the House of
Representatives.
f
PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE
RULES
RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, SPACE,
AND TECHNOLOGY FOR THE 116TH CONGRESS
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam
Speaker, pursuant to House Rule XI, I
hereby submit the Rules of the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology for publication in the CONGRES-
SIONAL RECORD. The Rule were adopted
in an open meeting of the Committee
on February 6, 2019, by voice vote of
the Committee.
RULE I. GENERAL
(a) Application of Rules.
(1) The Rules of the House of Representa-
tives (‘‘House Rules’’) are the rules of the
Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology and its Subcommittees with the spe-
cific additions thereto contained in these
rules.
(2) Except where the term ‘‘Sub-
committee’’ is specifically referred to, the
following rules shall apply to the Committee
and its Subcommittees as well as to the re-
spective Chairs and Ranking Minority Mem-
bers.
(b) Other Procedures. The Chair of the
Committee, after consultation with the
Ranking Minority Member of the Com-
mittee, may establish such other procedures
and take such actions as may be necessary
to carry out these rules or to facilitate the
effective operation of the Committee.
(c) Use of Hearing Rooms. In consultation
with the Ranking Minority Member, the
Chair of the Committee shall establish
guidelines for the use of Committee hearing
rooms.
RULE II. REGULAR, ADDITIONAL, AND SPECIAL
MEETINGS
(a) Regular Meetings. The regular meeting
day of the Committee for the conduct of its
business shall be on the first Wednesday of
each month, if the House is in session. If the
House is not in session on that day, then the
Committee shall meet on the next Wednes-
day of such month on which the House is in
session, or at another practicable time as de-
termined by the Chair.
(1) A regular meeting of the Committee
may be dispensed with if, in the judgment of
the Chair, there is no need for the meeting.
(2) The Chair may call and convene, as he
considers necessary and in accordance with
the notice requirements contained in these
rules, additional meetings of the Committee
for the consideration of any bill or resolu-
tion pending before the Committee or for the
conduct of other Committee business.
(b) Bills and Subjects to be Considered.
(1) The Chair shall announce the date,
place, and subject matter of any Committee
meeting, which may not commence earlier
than the third calendar day (excluding Sat-
urdays, Sundays, or legal holidays except
when the House is in session on such a day)
on which Members have notice thereof, un-
less the Chair, with the concurrence of the
Ranking Minority Member, or the Com-
mittee by majority vote with a quorum
present for the transaction of business, de-
termines there is good cause to begin the
meeting sooner, in which case the Chair
shall make the announcement at the earliest
possible date.
(2) At least 48 hours prior to the com-
mencement of a meeting for the markup of
legislation (excluding Saturdays, Sundays,
and legal holidays except when the House is
in session on such a day), the Chair shall
cause the text of such legislation to be made
publicly available in electronic form.
(3) To the maximum extent practicable,
amendments to a measure or matter shall be
submitted in writing or electronically to the
designee of both the Chair and Ranking Mi-
nority Member at least 24 hours prior to the
consideration of the measure or matter, and
the Chair may oppose any amendment not so
submitted.
(c) Open Meetings. Meeting for the trans-
action of business an hearings of the Com-
mittee shall be open to the public or closed
in accordance with the House Rules.
(d) Quorums. A majority of the Committee
shall form a quorum, except that two Mem-
bers shall constitute a quorum for taking
testimony and receiving evidence, and one
third of the Members shall form a quorum
for taking any action other than for which
the presence of a majority of the Committee
is otherwise required. If the Chair is not
present at any meeting of the Committee or
Subcommittee, the Vice Chair on the Com-
mittee who is present shall preside at the
meeting, unless another Member of the Com-
mittee is designated by the Chair.
(e) Postponement of Proceedings.
(1) Pursuant to clause 2(h)(4) of House Rule
XI, the Chair may postpone further pro-
ceedings when a record vote is ordered on the
question of approving a measure or matter
or on adopting an amendment. The Chair
may resume proceedings on a postponed vote
at any time after reasonable notice.
(2) When proceedings resume on a post-
poned question, notwithstanding any inter-
vening order for the previous question, an
underlying proposition shall remain subject
to further debate or amendment to the same
extent as when the question was postponed.
(f) Time for Statements and Debate.
(1) Insofar as is practicable, the Chair,
after consultation with the Ranking Minor-
ity Member, shall limit the total time of
opening statements by Members at a Com-
mittee meeting to no more than ten min-
utes, the time to be divided equally between
the Chair and Ranking Minority Member, ex-
cept in the case of joint Subcommittee hear-
ings, in which case the total time of opening
statements by Members at such joint hear-
ing shall be no more than twenty minutes,
the time to be divided equally between the
Chairs and Ranking Minority Members.
When requested, ex officio Members of any
Subcommittee shall also be recognized at a
Subcommittee hearing for five minutes each
to present an opening statement.
(2) The time any one Member may address
the Committee on any bill, amendment, mo-
tion, or other matter under consideration by
the Committee will be limited to five min-
utes, and then only when the Member has
been recognized by the Chair. This time
limit may be waived by the Chair pursuant
to unanimous consent.
(g) Requests for Recorded Vote. A record
vote of the Committee shall be provided on
any question before the Committee upon the
request of three or more Members or, in the
apparent absence of a quorum, by any one
Member.
(h) Transcripts. Transcripts of markups
shall be recorded and may be published in
the same manner as hearings before the
Committee, and shall be included as part of
the legislative report unless waived by the
Chair of the Committee.
(i) Motion to Go to Conference. Without
further action of the Committee, the Chair is
authorized to offer a motion under clause 1
of House Rule XXII whenever the Chair con-
siders it appropriate.
RULE III. HEARINGS
(a) Notice of Hearings.
(1) The Chair shall publicly announce the
date, place, and subject matter of any hear-
ing to be conducted by the Committee on
any measure or matter at least one week be-
fore the commencement of that hearing. If
the Chair, with the concurrence of the Rank-
ing Minority Member, determines there is
good cause to begin the hearing sooner, or if
the Committee so determines by majority
vote, a quorum being present for the trans-
action of business, the Chair shall make the
announcement at the earliest possible date.
(2) The Chair shall publicly announce a list
of witnesses to testify at a hearing as soon as
a complete list of witnesses, including those
to be called by the minority, is compiled.
When practicable, the Chair and the Ranking
Minority Member will seek to have a com-
plete list of witnesses compiled at or as soon
as practicable after the time that the hear-
ing is publicly announced.
(b) Witnesses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.065 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1453
February 7, 2019
(1) Insofar as is practicable, no later than
48 hours in advance of his or her appearance,
each witness who is to appear before the
Committee shall file, in printed copy and in
electronic form, a written statement of his
or her proposed testimony and a curriculum
vitae.
(2) Each witness shall limit his or her pres-
entation to a five minute summary, however
additional time may be granted by the Chair
when appropriate.
(3) The Chair, or any Member of the Com-
mittee designated by the Chair, may admin-
ister oaths to witnesses before the Com-
mittee.
(4) Whenever any hearing is conducted by
the Committee on any measure or matter,
the Minority Members of the Committee
shall be entitled, upon request to the Chair
by a majority of them before the completion
of the hearing, to call witnesses selected by
the Minority to testify with respect to the
measure or matter during at least one day of
hearing thereon.
(5) In the case of a witness appearing in a
nongovernmental capacity, a written state-
ment of proposed testimony shall include a
curriculum vitae and a disclosure of any
Federal grants, cooperative agreements, or
contracts, or contracts or payments origi-
nating with a foreign government, received
during the current calendar year or either of
the two previous calendar years by the wit-
ness or by an entity represented by the wit-
ness and related to the subject matter of the
hearing. The disclosure shall include the
amount and source of each Federal grant (or
subgrant thereof), cooperative agreement, or
contract (or subcontract thereof) related to
the subject matter of the hearing; and the
amount and country of origin of any pay-
ment or contract related to the subject mat-
ter of the hearing originating with a foreign
government. Such statements, with appro-
priate redactions to protect the privacy or
security of the witness, shall be made pub-
licly available in electronic form not later
than one day after the witness appears.
(c) Questioning of Witnesses.
(1) The right to interrogate a witness be-
fore the Committee shall alternate between
Majority and Minority Members of the Com-
mittee. Each Member shall be limited to five
minutes in the interrogation of witnesses.
No Member may be recognized for a second
period of interrogation until each Member
present, who wishes to be recognized, has
been recognized at least once.
(2) Notwithstanding clause 1, upon a mo-
tion the Chair, in consultation with the
Ranking Minority Member, may:
i. Designate an specified number of Mem-
bers of the Committee from each party to
question a witness for a period of time equal-
ly divided between the majority party and
the minority party, not to exceed one hour
in the aggregate; or
ii. Designate staff from each party to ques-
tion a witness for a period of time equally di-
vided between the majority party and the
minority party, not to exceed one hour in
the aggregate.
(3) Members of the Committee have two
weeks from the date of a hearing to submit
additional questions in writing for the record
to be answered by witnesses who have ap-
peared before the Committee. The letters of
transmittal and any responses thereto shall
be included in the hearing record.
(d) Claims of Privilege. Claims of common-
law privileges made by witnesses in hearings,
or by interviewees or deponents in investiga-
tions or inquiries, are applicable only at the
discretion of the Chair, subject to appeal to
the Committee.
(e) Publication of Transcripts. The tran-
scripts of those hearings conducted by the
Committee, when it is decided they will be
printed, shall be published in substantially
verbatim form, with the material requested
for the record inserted at that place re-
quested, or at the end of the record, as ap-
propriate. Individuals, including Members,
whose comments are to be published as part
of a Committee document shall be given the
opportunity to verify the accuracy of the
transcription in advance of publication. Any
requests by those Members, staff, or wit-
nesses to correct any errors other than er-
rors in the transcript, or disputed errors in
transcription, shall be appended to the
record, and the appropriate place where the
change is requested will be footnoted. Prior
to approval by the Chair of hearings con-
ducted jointly with another Congressional
Committee, a memorandum of under-
standing shall be prepared which incor-
porates an agreement for the publication of
the transcript.
(f) Pertinence of Testimony. At the discre-
tion of the Committee, brief and pertinent
statements may be submitted in writing for
inclusion in the record. The Committee is
the sole judge of the pertinence of testimony
and evidence adduced at its hearing.
RULE IV. REPORTS
(a) Bills and resolutions approved by the
Committee shall be reported by the Chair
pursuant to clauses 2–4 of House Rule XIII.
(b) A proposed investigative or oversight
report shall be considered as read if it has
been available to the Members of the Com-
mittee for at least 24 hours (excluding Satur-
days, Sundays, or legal holidays except when
the House is in session on such days).
(c) Every investigative or oversight report
shall be approved by a majority vote of the
Committee at a meeting at which a quorum
is present. If at the time of approval of such
a report a Member of the Committee gives
notice of intent to file supplemental, minor-
ity, additional, or dissenting views that
Member shall be entitled to file such views.
(d) Only those investigative or oversight
reports approved by a majority vote of the
Committee may be ordered printed, unless
otherwise required by House Rules.
RULE V. BROADCASTING
(a) Whenever a meeting for the transaction
of business, including the markup of legisla-
tion or a hearing is open to the public, that
meeting or hearing shall be open to coverage
by television, radio, and still photography in
accordance with clause 4 of House Rule XI.
(b) To the maximum extent practicable,
the Committee shall provide audio and vis-
ual coverage of each hearing or meeting for
the transaction of business in a manner that
allows the public to easily listen to and view
the proceedings, and maintain the recordings
of such coverage in a manner that is easily
accessible to the public. Operation and use of
any Committee Internet broadcast system
shall be fair and nonpartisan, and in accord-
ance with clauses 4 (b) and (f) of House Rule
XI and all other applicable rules of the Com-
mittee and the House.
RULE VI. SUBCOMMITTEES
(a) Committee Jurisdiction. The Com-
mittee shall have jurisdiction over such mat-
ters as determined by the Chair.
(b) Subcommittees and Jurisdiction. There
shall be five standing Subcommittees of the
Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology, with jurisdictions as follows:
(1) Subcommittee on Energy. Shall have
jurisdiction over the following subject mat-
ters: all matters relating to energy research,
development, and demonstration projects
therefor; commercial application of energy
technology; Department of Energy research,
development, and demonstration programs;
Department of Energy laboratories; Depart-
ment of Energy science activities; energy
supply activities; nuclear, solar, and renew-
able energy, and other advanced energy tech-
nologies; uranium supply and enrichment,
and Department of Energy waste manage-
ment; fossil energy research and develop-
ment; clean coal technology; energy con-
servation research and development, includ-
ing building performance, alternate fuels,
distributed power systems, and industrial
process improvements; pipeline research, de-
velopment, and demonstration projects; en-
ergy standards; other appropriate matters as
referred by the Chair; and relevant over-
sight.
(2) Subcommittee on Environment. Shall
have jurisdiction over the following subject
matters: all matters relating to environ-
mental research; Environmental Protection
Agency research and development; environ-
mental standards; climate change research
and development; the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration, including all
activities related to weather, weather serv-
ices, climate, the atmosphere, marine fish-
eries, and oceanic research; risk assessment
activities; scientific issues related to envi-
ronmental policy, including climate change;
other appropriate matters as referred by the
Chair; and relevant oversight.
(3) Subcommittee on Research and Tech-
nology. Shall have jurisdiction over the fol-
lowing subject matters: all matters relating
to science policy and science education; the
Office of Science and Technology Policy; all
scientific research, and scientific and engi-
neering resources (including human re-
sources); all matters relating to science,
technology, engineering and mathematics
education; intergovernmental mechanisms
for research, development, and demonstra-
tion and cross-cutting programs; inter-
national scientific cooperation; National
Science Foundation; university research pol-
icy, including infrastructure and overhead;
university research partnerships, including
those with industry; science scholarships;
computing, communications, networking,
and information technology; research and
development relating to health, biomedical,
and nutritional programs; research, develop-
ment, and demonstration relating to nano-
science, nanoengineering, and nanotechnol-
ogy; agricultural, geological, biological and
life sciences research; materials research, de-
velopment, demonstration, and policy; all
matters relating to competitiveness, tech-
nology, standards, and innovation; standard-
ization of weights and measures, including
technical standards, standardization, and
conformity assessment; measurement, in-
cluding the metric system of measurement;
the Technology Administration of the De-
partment of Commerce; the National Insti-
tute of Standards and Technology; the Na-
tional Technical Information Service; com-
petitiveness, including small business com-
petitiveness; tax, antitrust, regulatory and
other legal and governmental policies re-
lated to technological development and com-
mercialization; technology transfer, includ-
ing civilian use of defense technologies; pat-
ent and intellectual property policy; inter-
national technology trade; research, develop-
ment, and demonstration activities of the
Department of Transportation; surface and
water transportation research, development,
and demonstration programs; earthquake
programs and fire research programs, includ-
ing those related to wildfire proliferation re-
search and prevention; biotechnology policy;
research, development, demonstration, and
standards-related activities of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security; Small Business
Innovation Research and Technology Trans-
fer; voting technologies and standards; other
appropriate matters as referred by the Chair;
and relevant oversight.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:26 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.059 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1454 February 7, 2019
(4) Subcommittee on Space and Aero-
nautics. Shall have jurisdiction over the fol-
lowing subject matters: all matters relating
to astronautical and aeronautical research
and development; national space policy, in-
cluding access to space; sub-orbital access
and applications; National Aeronautics and
Space Administration and its contractor and
government-operated labs; space commer-
cialization, including commercial space ac-
tivities relating to the Department of Trans-
portation and the Department of Commerce;
exploration and use of outer space; inter-
national space cooperation; the National
Space Council; space applications, space
communications and related matters; Earth
remote sensing policy; civil aviation re-
search, development, and demonstration; re-
search, development, and demonstration pro-
grams of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion; space law; other appropriate matters as
referred by the Chair; and relevant over-
sight.
(5) Subcommittee on Investigations and
Oversight. Shall have general and special in-
vestigative authority on all matters within
the jurisdiction of the Committee.
(c) Composition of Subcommittees.
(1) The Chair shall assign Members to the
Subcommittees. Minority party assignments
shall be made only with the concurrence of
the Ranking Minority Member. The Chair
shall determine the ratio of Majority Mem-
bers to Minority Members of each Sub-
committee; provided that the ratio of Major-
ity Members to Minority Members on each
Subcommittee (excluding any ex officio
Member) shall be no less favorable to the
Majority party than the ratio for the Com-
mittee.
(2) The Chair and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber of the Committee shall be ex officio
Members of each Subcommittee and shall
have the right to vote and be counted as part
of the quorum and ratios on all matters be-
fore the Subcommittee.
(d) Referral to Subcommittees. The Chair
shall expeditiously refer all legislation and
other matters referred to the Committee to
the Subcommittee or Subcommittees of ap-
propriate jurisdiction, unless the Chair
deems consideration is to be by the Com-
mittee. Subcommittee Chairs may make re-
quests for referral of specific matters to
their Subcommittee if they believe Sub-
committee jurisdictions so warrants.
(e) Subcommittee Procedures and Reports.
(1) Subcommittee Chairs shall set meeting
dates with the concurrence of the Chair and
after consultation with the other Sub-
committee Chairs with a view toward avoid-
ing simultaneous scheduling of Sub-
committee meetings or hearings wherever
possible. No Subcommittee may meet or
hold a hearing at the same time as a meeting
or hearing of the Committee without author-
ization from the Chair.
(2) Each Subcommittee is authorized to
meet, hold hearings, receive testimony or
evidence, mark up legislation, and report to
the Committee on all matters referred to it.
For matters within its jurisdiction, each
Subcommittee is authorized to conduct leg-
islative, investigative, forecasting, and gen-
eral oversight hearings; to conduct inquiries
into the future; and to undertake budget im-
pact studies.
(3) Each Subcommittee shall provide the
Committee with copies of such records of
votes taken in the Subcommittee and such
other records with respect to the Sub-
committee as the Chair of the Committee
deems necessary to ensure compliance with
the House Rules.
(4) After ordering a measure or matter re-
ported, a Subcommittee shall issue a report
in such form as the Chair shall specify. To
the maximum extent practicable, reports
and recommendations of a Subcommittee
shall not be considered by the Committee
until after the intervention of 48 hours (ex-
cluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holi-
days except when the House is in session on
such a day) from the time the report is sub-
mitted and made available to the Com-
mittee. Printed hearings thereon shall be
made available, if feasible, to the Com-
mittee, except that this Rule may be waived
at the discretion of the Chair after consulta-
tion with the Ranking Minority Member.
(5) Any Member of the Committee may
have the privilege of sitting with any Sub-
committee during its hearings or delibera-
tions and may participate in such hearings
or deliberations, but no Member who is not a
Member of the Subcommittee shall vote on
any matter before such Subcommittee, ex-
cept as provided in Rule VI(c)(2).
RULE VII. VICE CHAIRS
(a) The Chair of the Committee shall des-
ignate a Member of the majority party to
serve as Vice Chair of the Committee, and
shall designate a Majority Member of each
Subcommittee to serve as Vice Chair of the
Subcommittee. Vice Chairs of the Com-
mittee and each Subcommittee serve at the
pleasure of the Chair, who may at any time
terminate his designation of a Member as
Vice Chair and designate a different Member
of the majority party to serve as Vice Chair
of the Committee or relevant Subcommittee.
(b) The Chair may assign duties, privileges,
and responsibilities to the Vice Chairs of the
Committee or the various Subcommittees.
RULE VIII. OVERSIGHT AND INVESTIGATIONS
(a) The Committee shall review and study,
on a continuing basis, the application, ad-
ministration, execution, and effectiveness of
those laws, or parts of laws, the subject mat-
ter of which is within its jurisdiction, includ-
ing all laws, programs, and Government ac-
tivities relating to nonmilitary research and
development in accordance with House Rule
X.
(b) Not later than March 1st of the first
session of the 116th Congress, the Chair, after
consultation with the Ranking Minority
Member, shall submit the Committee’s over-
sight plan to the Committee on Oversight
and the Committee on House Administration
in accordance with the provisions of clause
2(d) of House Rule X.
(c) Any investigation undertaken in the
name of the Committee shall be approved by
the Chair. Nothing in this subsection shall
be interpreted to infringe on a Subcommit-
tee’s authority to conduct general oversight
of matters within its jurisdiction, short of
undertaking an investigation.
RULE IX. SUBPOENAS
The power to authorize and issue sub-
poenas is delegated to the Chair as provided
for under clause 2(m)(3)(A)(i) of House Rule
XI. The Chair shall notify the Ranking Mi-
nority Member prior to issuing any subpoena
under such authority. To the extent prac-
ticable, the Chair shall consult with the
Ranking Minority Member at least 24 hours
in advance of a subpoena being issued under
such authority.
RULE X. DEPOSITION AUTHORITY
The Chair may authorize the staff of the
Committee to conduct depositions pursuant
to section 103 of House Resolution 6, 116th
Congress, and subject to any regulations
issued pursuant thereto.
RULE XI. COMMITTEE RECORDS
(a) The records of the Committee at the
National Archives and Records Administra-
tion shall be made available for public use in
accordance with House Rule VII.
(b) The Chair shall notify the Ranking Mi-
nority Member of the Committee of any de-
cision, pursuant to clauses 3(b)(3) or 4(b) of
House Rule VII, to withhold a record other-
wise available, and the matter shall be pre-
sented to the Committee for a determination
on the written request of any Member of the
Committee.
RULE XII. OFFICIAL COMMITTEE WEBSITE
The Chair shall maintain an official Com-
mittee website for the purpose of furthering
the Committee’s legislative and oversight re-
sponsibilities, including communicating in-
formation about the Committee’s activities
to Committee Members and other Members
of the House. The Ranking Minority Member
of the Committee may maintain a similar
website for the same purpose, including com-
municating information about the activities
of the minority to Committee Members and
other Members of the House.
RULE XIII. COMMITTEE BUDGET
From the amount provided to the Com-
mittee in the primary expense resolution
adopted by the House of Representatives in
the 116th Congress, the Chair shall designate
one-third of the budget, after adjustment for
the salaries of the shared administrative
functions for the Clerk, Printer and Finan-
cial Administrator, under the direction of
the Ranking Minority Member for the pur-
poses of minority staff, travel expenses of
minority staff and Members, and all other
minority office expenses.
RULE XIV. AMENDMENTS TO COMMITTEE RULES
The rules of the Committee may be modi-
fied, amended, or repealed, in the same man-
ner and method as prescribed for the adop-
tion of committee rules in clause 2 of House
Rule XI, but only if written notice of the
proposed change has been provided to each
such Member at least 3 days before the time
of the meeting at which the vote on the
change occurs. Any such change in the rules
of the Committee shall be published in the
Congressional Record within 30 calendar
days after their approval.
f
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Karen L. Haas, Clerk of the House,
reported and found truly enrolled a bill
of the House of the following title,
which was thereupon signed by the
Speaker:
H.R. 439. An act to amend the charter of
the Future Farmers of America, and for
other purposes.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 6 o’clock and 52 minutes
p.m.), the House adjourned until to-
morrow, Friday, February 8, 2019, at 9
a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:26 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.059 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1455
February 7, 2019
EXPENDITURE REPORTS CONCERNING OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL
Reports concerning the foreign currencies and U.S. dollars utilized for Official Foreign Travel during the fourth quar-
ter of 2018, pursuant to Public Law 95–384, are as follows:
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, ERIC AMIDON, EXPENDED BETWEEN DEC. 25 AND DEC. 28, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Eric Amidon ............................................................. 12/25 12/26 Kuwait ................................................... 64.92 214.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... 64.92 214.00
12/26 12/27 Italy ....................................................... 242.65 277.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... 242.65 277.00
12/27 12/28 Spain .................................................... 230.39 263.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... 230.39 263.00
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 754.00
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
ERIC AMIDON, Jan. 25, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Justin Masucci ......................................................... 10/18 10/24 China .................................................... .................... 2,350.00 .................... 12,403.00 .................... 670.00 .................... 15,423.00
10/24 10/25 Hong Kong ............................................ .................... 535.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 535.00
Andrew Cooper ......................................................... 10/18 10/24 China .................................................... .................... 2,350.00 .................... 9,870.00 .................... 670.00 .................... 12,890.00
10/24 10/25 Hong Kong ............................................ .................... 535.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 535.00
10/25 10/27 Japan .................................................... .................... 970.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 970.00
Thomas O’Brien ....................................................... 10/18 10/24 China .................................................... .................... 2,350.00 .................... 9,870.00 .................... 670.00 .................... 12,890.00
10/24 10/25 Hong Kong ............................................ .................... 535.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 535.00
10/25 10/27 Japan .................................................... .................... 970.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 970.00
Hon. John Carter ...................................................... 11/8 11/10 France ................................................... .................... 1,528.68 .................... 820.22 .................... 303.22 .................... 2,652.12
11/11 11/13 Belgium ................................................ .................... 684.00 .................... 485.56 .................... 222.33 .................... 1,391.89
Sarah Young ............................................................ 11/8 11/10 France ................................................... .................... 1,528.68 .................... 820.22 .................... 303.22 .................... 2,652.12
11/11 11/13 Belgium ................................................ .................... 684.00 .................... 485.56 .................... 222.33 .................... 1,391.89
Hon. Henry Cuellar .................................................. 11/8 11/10 France ................................................... .................... 1,528.68 .................... 820.22 .................... 303.22 .................... 2,652.12
11/11 11/13 Belgium ................................................ .................... 684.00 .................... 485.56 .................... 222.33 .................... 1,391.89
Hon. John H. Rutherford .......................................... 11/8 11/10 France ................................................... .................... 1,528.68 .................... 820.22 .................... 303.22 .................... 2,652.12
11/11 11/13 Belgium ................................................ .................... 684.00 .................... 485.56 .................... 222.33 .................... 1,391.89
Hon. C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger .............................. 11/8 11/10 France ................................................... .................... 1,528.68 .................... 820.22 .................... 303.22 .................... 2,652.12
11/11 11/13 Belgium ................................................ .................... 684.00 .................... 485.56 .................... 222.33 .................... 1,391.89
Hon. Henry Cuellar .................................................. 10/1 10/2 Germany ................................................ .................... 292.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 292.00
10/2 10/4 Rwanda ................................................. .................... 578.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 578.00
10/4 10/7 Botswana .............................................. .................... 693.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 693.00
10/7 10/8 Angola ................................................... .................... 480.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 480.00
10/8 10/9 Tunisia .................................................. .................... 179.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 179.00
10/9 10/10 Portugal ................................................ .................... 322.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 322.00
Hayden Milberg ........................................................ 11/5 11/8 Bahrain ................................................. .................... 621.34 .................... 11,321.63 .................... .................... .................... 11,942.97
11/8 11/9 Niger ..................................................... .................... 114.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 114.00
David Bortnick ......................................................... 10/28 11/1 Colombia ............................................... .................... 913.00 .................... 2,370.36 .................... 811.00 .................... 4,094.36
11/1 11/3 Peru ...................................................... .................... 715.39 .................... .................... .................... 1,029.03 .................... 1,744.42
Erin Kolodjeski ......................................................... 10/23 10/25 Cambodia ............................................. .................... 487.00 .................... 7,739.63 .................... 2,084.10 .................... 10,310.73
10/25 10/27 Thailand ................................................ .................... 460.91 .................... .................... .................... 107.04 .................... 567.95
10/1 10/30 Laos ...................................................... .................... 463.00 .................... .................... .................... 1,964.54 .................... 2,427.54
Winifred Chang ........................................................ 10/23 10/25 Cambodia ............................................. .................... 487.00 .................... 7,461.43 .................... 2,084.10 .................... 10,032.53
10/25 10/27 Thailand ................................................ .................... 460.91 .................... .................... .................... 107.04 .................... 567.95
10/1 10/30 Laos ...................................................... .................... 463.00 .................... .................... .................... 1,964.54 .................... 2,427.54
Leslie Albright ......................................................... 10/17 10/26 Chile ..................................................... .................... 1,444.00 .................... 14,740.83 .................... .................... .................... 16,184.83
Jaclyn Kilroy ............................................................. 11/5 11/9 Palau .................................................... .................... 1,128.64 .................... 437.00 .................... 259.33 .................... 1,824.97
Kristin Richmond ..................................................... 11/5 11/9 Palau .................................................... .................... 1,128.64 .................... 437.00 .................... 259.33 .................... 1,824.97
Betsy Bina ............................................................... 11/5 11/9 Palau .................................................... .................... 1,128.64 .................... 437.00 .................... 259.33 .................... 1,824.97
Angelina Giancarlo .................................................. 10/17 10/18 Austria .................................................. .................... 360.00 .................... 3,236.81 .................... .................... .................... 3,596.81
10/18 10/21 Czech Republic ..................................... .................... 1,119.15 .................... 103.65 .................... .................... .................... 1,222.80
10/21 10/24 Denmark ............................................... .................... 1,197.00 .................... 1,158.53 .................... 105.00 .................... 2,460.53
Loraine Heckenberg ................................................. 10/17 10/18 Austria .................................................. .................... 360.00 .................... 3,236.81 .................... .................... .................... 3,596.81
10/18 10/21 Czech Republic ..................................... .................... 1,119.15 .................... 103.65 .................... .................... .................... 1,222.80
10/21 10/24 Denmark ............................................... .................... 1,197.00 .................... 651.97 .................... 571.67 .................... 2,420.64
Perry Yates .............................................................. 10/17 10/18 Austria .................................................. .................... 360.00 .................... 3,236.81 .................... .................... .................... 3,596.81
10/18 10/21 Czech Republic ..................................... .................... 1,119.15 .................... 103.65 .................... .................... .................... 1,222.80
10/21 10/24 Denmark ............................................... .................... 1,197.00 .................... 702.37 .................... 571.67 .................... 2,471.04
Jennifer Miller .......................................................... 10/21 10/25 Israel ..................................................... .................... 2,080.00 .................... 11,418.43 .................... .................... .................... 13,498.43
10/25 10/27 Jordan ................................................... .................... 710.81 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 710.81
Maureen Holohan ..................................................... 10/21 10/25 Israel ..................................................... .................... 2,080.00 .................... 12,528.83 .................... .................... .................... 14,608.83
10/25 10/27 Jordan ................................................... .................... 710.81 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 710.81
10/28 10/30 Iraq ....................................................... .................... 130.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 130.00
Rebecca Leggieri ..................................................... 10/22 10/25 Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,040.00 .................... 6,582.03 .................... .................... .................... 7,622.03
10/25 10/28 Jordan ................................................... .................... 1,066.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,066.22
10/28 10/30 Iraq ....................................................... .................... 130.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 130.00
Hayden Milberg ........................................................ 10/22 10/25 Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,040.00 .................... 6,582.03 .................... .................... .................... 7,622.03
10/25 10/28 Jordan ................................................... .................... 1,066.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,066.22
10/28 10/30 Iraq ....................................................... .................... 130.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 130.00
Stephen Steigleder .................................................. 10/27 10/29 Rwanda ................................................. .................... 444.00 .................... 19,549.50 .................... .................... .................... 19,993.50
10/29 11/1 Uganda ................................................. .................... 789.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 789.00
11/1 11/3 Madagascar .......................................... .................... 395.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 395.52
11/3 11/4 Dem. Rep. of Congo ............................. .................... 391.00 .................... .................... .................... 155.00 .................... 546.00
Brooke Boyer ............................................................ 10/16 10/18 Italy ....................................................... .................... 427.51 .................... 10,041.84 .................... 0.80 .................... 10,470.15
10/18 10/21 Germany ................................................ .................... 1,035.12 .................... 17.14 .................... 82.67 .................... 1,134.93
10/21 10/24 Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,560.00 .................... 72.58 .................... 719.25 .................... 2,351.83
Jason Gray ............................................................... 10/18 10/21 Germany ................................................ .................... 906.12 .................... 5,443.84 .................... 82.67 .................... 6,432.63
10/21 10/24 Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,560.00 .................... 150.90 .................... 705.13 .................... 2,416.03
Mathew Bower ......................................................... 10/16 10/18 Italy ....................................................... .................... 427.51 .................... 10,041.84 .................... 1.53 .................... 10,470.88
10/18 10/21 Germany ................................................ .................... 1,035.12 .................... 47.74 .................... 82.67 .................... 1,165.53
10/21 10/24 Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,560.00 .................... 72.58 .................... 719.25 .................... 2,351.83
Hon. Henry Cuellar .................................................. 11/30 12/2 Mexico ................................................... .................... 118.00 .................... .................... .................... 487.90 .................... 605.90
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 63,079.28 .................... 178,700.31 .................... 19,852.34 .................... 261,631.93
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. NITA M. LOWEY, Jan. 30, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:26 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.009 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1456 February 7, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. John Curtis ...................................................... 10/1 10/2 Germany ................................................ .................... 292.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 292.00
10/2 10/4 Rwanda ................................................. .................... 578.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 578.00
10/4 10/7 Botswana .............................................. .................... 693.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 693.00
10/7 10/8 Angola ................................................... .................... 480.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 480.00
10/8 10/9 Tunisia .................................................. .................... 179.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 179.00
10/9 10/10 Portugal ................................................ .................... 322.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 322.00
Matthew Zweig ........................................................ 10/21 10/23 United Kingdom .................................... .................... 925.18 .................... 4,234.04 .................... .................... .................... 5,159.22
10/23 10/26 Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,460.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,460.00
10/26 10/29 Bahrain ................................................. .................... 900.53 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 900.53
Mira Resnick ............................................................ 10/25 10/29 Bahrain ................................................. .................... 1,697.89 .................... 2,969.43 .................... .................... .................... 4,667.32
Janice Kaguyutan .................................................... 10/20 10/23 Japan .................................................... .................... 1,362.00 .................... 7,241.11 .................... .................... .................... 8,603.11
10/23 10/26 South Korea .......................................... .................... 992.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 992.00
Amy Porter ............................................................... 10/20 10/23 Japan .................................................... .................... 1,378.31 .................... 6,220.86 .................... .................... .................... 7,599.17
10/23 10/26 South Korea .......................................... .................... 1,002.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,002.32
Douglas Anderson .................................................... 10/20 10/23 Japan .................................................... .................... 1,362.31 .................... 6,220.86 .................... .................... .................... 7,583.17
10/23 10/26 South Korea .......................................... .................... 985.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 985.52
Megan Gallagher ..................................................... 11/5 11/10 Niger ..................................................... .................... 688.21 .................... 6,771.14 .................... .................... .................... 7,459.35
Mark Iozzi ................................................................ 11/5 11/10 Niger ..................................................... .................... 688.21 .................... 6,771.14 .................... .................... .................... 7,459.35
Kimberly Stanton ..................................................... 11/21 11/24 Switzerland ........................................... .................... 1,325.17 .................... 1,034.88 .................... .................... .................... 2,360.05
Hon. Norma Torres ................................................... 10/22 10/24 Guatemala ............................................ .................... .................... .................... 1,120.63 .................... .................... .................... 1,120.63
Eric Jacobstein ........................................................ 10/22 10/24 Guatemala ............................................ .................... .................... .................... 531.63 .................... .................... .................... 531.63
Sajit Gandhi ............................................................ 10/21 10/24 India ..................................................... .................... 986.85 .................... 9,417.90 .................... .................... .................... 10,404.75
10/24 10/25 Afghanistan .......................................... .................... 33.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 33.00
Oren Adaki ............................................................... 11/2 11/4 Serbia ................................................... .................... 537.00 .................... 3,515.73 .................... .................... .................... 4,052.73
11/4 11/6 Czech Republic ..................................... .................... 883.42 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 883.42
Hon. Ted Poe* ......................................................... 11/2 11/4 Serbia ................................................... .................... 537.00 .................... *6,803.13 .................... 959 .................... 8,299.13
11/4 11/6 Czech Republic ..................................... .................... 883.42 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 883.42
Leah Campos ........................................................... 11/30 12/2 Mexico ................................................... .................... 723.90 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 723.90
Hon. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen ........................................ 10/18 10/21 Jordan ................................................... .................... 1,065.05 .................... 9,602.44 .................... .................... .................... 10,667.49
10/21 10/24 Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,630.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,630.00
10/24 10/27 Morocco ................................................. .................... 870.29 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 870.29
10/27 10/28 Spain .................................................... .................... 233.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 233.52
Nathan Gately .......................................................... 10/18 10/21 Jordan ................................................... .................... 1,065.05 .................... 12,099.74 .................... .................... .................... 13,164.79
10/21 10/24 Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,630.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,630.00
10/24 10/27 Morocco ................................................. .................... 870.29 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 870.29
10/27 10/28 Spain .................................................... .................... 233.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 233.52
Gabriella Boffelli ..................................................... 10/18 10/21 Jordan ................................................... .................... 1,065.05 .................... 12,099.74 .................... .................... .................... 13,164.79
10/21 10/24 Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,630.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,630.00
10/24 10/27 Morocco ................................................. .................... 870.29 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 870.29
10/27 10/28 Spain .................................................... .................... 233.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 233.52
Hon. Norma Torres ................................................... 9/29 9/30 Honduras .............................................. .................... 226.43 .................... 1,558.49 .................... .................... .................... 1,784.92
9/30 10/2 Guatemala ............................................ .................... 357.83 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 357.85
Hon. Tom Garrett** ................................................. 10/12 10/20 Moldova ................................................ .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
10/12 10/20 Ukraine ................................................. .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
10/12 10/20 Belarus ................................................. .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
10/12 10/20 Latvia .................................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
Russell Solomon ...................................................... 10/27 10/30 Egypt ..................................................... .................... 819.00 .................... 2,900.73 .................... .................... .................... 3,719.73
10/30 11/2 Tunisia .................................................. .................... 547.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 547.52
Emily Cottle ............................................................. 10/27 10/30 Egypt ..................................................... .................... 745.00 .................... 2,970.63 .................... .................... .................... 3,715.63
10/30 11/2 Tunisia .................................................. .................... 497.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 497.52
Cory Fritz ................................................................. 10/21 10/27 South Africa .......................................... .................... 1,475.95 .................... 13,180.43 .................... .................... .................... 14,656.38
Thomas Sheehy ........................................................ 10/21 10/27 South Africa .......................................... .................... 1,475.95 .................... 13,180.43 .................... .................... .................... 14,656.38
Hon. Edward Royce* ................................................ 10/21 10/27 South Africa .......................................... .................... 1,475.95 .................... *13,406.73 .................... 2,290.52 .................... 17,173.20
Hon. Lee Zeldin*** ................................................. 12/25 12/26 Kuwait ................................................... .................... *** .................... *** .................... *** .................... ***
12/26 12/27 Sicily ..................................................... .................... *** .................... *** .................... *** .................... ***
12/27 12/28 Spain .................................................... .................... *** .................... *** .................... *** .................... ***
Hon. Brian Fitzpatrick*** ....................................... 12/25 12/26 Kuwait ................................................... .................... *** .................... *** .................... *** .................... ***
12/26 12/27 Sicily ..................................................... .................... *** .................... *** .................... *** .................... ***
12/27 12/28 Spain .................................................... .................... *** .................... *** .................... *** .................... ***
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 40,913.97 .................... 143,851.84 .................... 3,249.52 .................... 188,015.33
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
3Military air transportation.
*Indicates Delegation costs
**Indicates a cancelled mission
***Indicates lack of expenditure reporting due to partial government shutdown; report will be amended once receipts are provided by State
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL, Jan. 30, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Jenniffer González-Colón ................................. 11/17 11/18 Czech Republic ..................................... .................... 416.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 416.00
11/18 11/20 Uzbekistan ............................................ .................... 558.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 558.00
11/20 11/21 Djibouti ................................................. .................... 381.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 381.00
11/21 11/23 Kuwait ................................................... .................... 864.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 864.00
11/23 11/24 Ireland .................................................. .................... 267.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 267.00
10/22 10/24 Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,180.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,180.00
10/24 10/27 Morocco ................................................. .................... 850.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 850.00
10/27 10/28 Spain .................................................... .................... 352.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 352.00
............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,334.34 .................... .................... .................... 13,334.34
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 4,868.00 .................... 13,334.34 .................... .................... .................... 18,202.34
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
3 Military air transportation.
HON. STEVE CHABOT, Jan. 24, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:26 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.009 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1457
February 7, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. DAVID P. ROE, Jan. 29, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Diane Black ..................................................... 10/27 11/31 Tokyo, Japan ......................................... .................... 863.00 .................... 4,708.63 .................... 1,840.79 .................... 7,412.42
10/31 11/4 Beijing, China ....................................... .................... 357.00 .................... .................... .................... 662.00 .................... 1,019.00
Angela Ellard ........................................................... 11/12 11/18 Papua New Guinea ............................... .................... 5,623.16 .................... 499.99 .................... 4,705.16 .................... 10,828.31
Joshua Snead .......................................................... 11/12 11/18 Papua New Guinea ............................... .................... 5,623.16 .................... 499.99 .................... 4,705.16 .................... 10,828.31
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 12,466.32 .................... 5,708.61 .................... 11,913.11 .................... 30,088.04
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. KEVIN BRADY, Jan. 25, 2019.
h
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act Of 2010 (PAYGO), I hereby
submit, prior to the vote on passage,
for printing in the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD, that H.R. 450, the Preventing
Crimes Against Veterans Act of 2019,
would have no significant effect on di-
rect spending or revenues, and there-
fore, the budgetary effects of such bill
are estimated as zero.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
96. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-594, ‘‘Sports Wagering Lottery
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
97. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-593, ‘‘Sexual Abuse Statute of Limita-
tions Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to
Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
98. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-592, ‘‘Fare Evasion Decriminalization
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
99. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-579, ‘‘Foster Parent Training Regula-
tion Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to
Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
100. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-580, ‘‘Foreign-Government-Owned Va-
cant and Blighted Building Amendment Act
of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
101. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-581, ‘‘Women, Infants, and Children
Program Expansion Act of 2018’’, pursuant to
Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
102. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-582, ‘‘Medical Necessity Review Cri-
teria Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to
Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
103. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-583, ‘‘CleanEnergy DC Omnibus
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
104. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-584, ‘‘Internet Sales Tax Amendment
Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198,
Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
105. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-585, ‘‘Northwest One Surplus and Dis-
position Approval Omnibus Act of 2018’’, pur-
suant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
106. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-586, ‘‘Rental Housing Smoke-Free
Common Area Amendment Act of 2018’’, pur-
suant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
107. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-587, ‘‘Breast Density Screening and
Notification Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursu-
ant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
108. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-589, ‘‘Rhode Island Avenue (RIA) Tax
Increment Financing Act of 2018’’, pursuant
to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat.
814); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
109. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-588, ‘‘Hidden Figures Way Designation
Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198,
Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
110. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-591, ‘‘Fair Condominium Withdrawal
Amendment Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
111. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-590, ‘‘Paperwork Reduction and Data
Collection Act of 2018’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
112. A letter from the Chairman, Council of
the District of Columbia, transmitting D.C.
Act 22-595, ‘‘Health Insurance Marketplace
Improvement Amendment Act of 2018’’, pur-
suant to Public Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87
Stat. 814); to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
113. A letter from the Regulation Develop-
ment Coordinator, Office of Regulation Pol-
icy and Management, Office of the Secretary
(00REG), Department of Veterans Affairs,
transmitting the Department’s Major final
rule — VA Claims and Appeals Moderniza-
tion (RIN: 2900-AQ26) received February 6,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
114. A letter from the Assistant Director,
Office of Regulation Policy and Manage-
ment, Office of the Secretary (00REG), De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, transmitting
the Department’s final rule — Veterans’
Group Life Insurance Increased Coverage
(RIN: 2900-AQ12) received February 6 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
115. A letter from the Regulation Develop-
ment Coordinator, Office of Regulation Pol-
icy and Management, Office of the Secretary
(00REG), Department of Veterans Affairs,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Per Diem Paid to States for Care of Eligible
Veterans in State Homes (RIN: 2900-A088) re-
ceived February 6, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:26 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.009 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1458 February 7, 2019
By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. KATKO, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. BROWN of Maryland):
H.R. 1032. A bill to provide for the reten-
tion and service of transgender individuals in
the Armed Forces; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Mr. JONES,
Mr. RASKIN, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. TED
LIEU of California, Mr. KHANNA, and
Mr. POCAN):
H.R. 1033. A bill to amend the Arms Export
Control Act to modify certification and re-
port requirements relating to sales of major
defense equipment with respect to which
nonrecurring costs of research, development,
and production are waived or reduced under
the Arms Export Control Act, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for him-
self, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr. WITT-
MAN, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia,
Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr. GRIFFITH, Mr.
HURD of Texas, Mr. BUDD, Mr.
CRAWFORD, and Mr. CARTER of Geor-
gia):
H.R. 1034. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to require pharmacy-ne-
gotiated price concessions to be included in
negotiated prices at the point-of-sale under
part D of the Medicare program, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for him-
self, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. DAVID P. ROE
of Tennessee, Mr. WESTERMAN, Miss
RICE of New York, Mr. KING of Iowa,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr. AUSTIN
SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. HICE of Geor-
gia, Mr. VELA, Mr. RASKIN, Mrs. ROD-
GERS of Washington, Mr. WELCH, Mr.
CARTER of Georgia, Mr. CRAWFORD,
Mr. PETERSON, and Mr. BYRNE):
H.R. 1035. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for pharmacy
benefits manager standards under the Medi-
care prescription drug program and Medicare
Advantage program to further transparency
of payment methodologies to pharmacies,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, and in addition to
the Committees on Ways and Means, and
Oversight and Reform, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. RIGGLEMAN:
H.R. 1036. A bill to amend the Truth in
Lending Act to clarify the exclusion for sell-
er-financers from the definition of mortgage
originator, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. RIGGLEMAN:
H.R. 1037. A bill to increase transparency
with respect to financial services benefitting
state sponsors of terrorism, human rights
abusers, and corrupt officials, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Financial
Services.
By Mr. RIGGLEMAN:
H.R. 1038. A bill to require the Treasury to
take a more prominent role in coordinating
AML/CFT policy and examinations across
the Government, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. RIGGLEMAN:
H.R. 1039. A bill to streamline require-
ments for currency transaction reports and
suspicious activity reports, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Financial
Services.
By Mr. BURGESS:
H.R. 1040. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide taxpayers a flat
tax alternative to the current income tax
system; to the Committee on Ways and
Means, and in addition to the Committee on
Rules, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska (for himself
and Ms. SEWELL of Alabama):
H.R. 1041. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to remove the 96-hour
physician certification requirement for inpa-
tient critical access hospital services; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. TITUS (for herself, Mr. KING of
New York, Miss RICE of New York,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. WELCH, Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York, Ms. WIL-
SON of Florida, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
KILMER, Mr. KATKO, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. SCHIFF,
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. BUCHANAN, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Ms. WILD, Mr. TED LIEU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr.
HIMES, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mr. POCAN, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, and Mr. NEGUSE):
H.R. 1042. A bill to amend the Animal Wel-
fare Act to require that covered persons de-
velop and implement emergency contingency
plans; to the Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr. ROD-
NEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Ms. STEFANIK, Mrs. MUR-
PHY, Mr. SMITH of Missouri, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. COLE, Mr. BACON, Mr.
BARR, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mrs. BEATTY,
Mr. BERA, Mr. BOST, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mrs. BROOKS
of Indiana, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Mr. BUCSHON, Mrs. BUSTOS,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. CARSON of Indi-
ana, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms. JUDY CHU
of California, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. COOK, Mr.
CRAWFORD, Ms. DEAN, Ms. DELBENE,
Mr. DELGADO, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. FOSTER, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr.
GOMEZ, Mr. GROTHMAN, Ms. HAALAND,
Ms. HILL of California, Mr. HIMES,
Mr. HUDSON, Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. KATKO, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. KILMER, Mr.
KING of New York, Mr. KINZINGER,
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Mr. LAHOOD, Mr.
LAMB, Mr. LEVIN of California, Mr.
TED LIEU of California, Mr.
LOEBSACK, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
MARSHALL, Mrs. MCBATH, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
MCKINLEY, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
MITCHELL, Mr. MOULTON, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr.
PALLONE, Mr. PETERSON, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mr. QUIGLEY, Miss RICE of New
York, Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr. DAVID P.
ROE of Tennessee, Mr. ROSE of New
York, Mr. ROUZER, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Mr. RYAN, Ms. SCANLON, Mr.
SCHRADER, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama,
Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. STANTON, Mr. STIV-
ERS, Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. TONKO, Mrs. TORRES of
California, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. TUR-
NER, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. WELCH, Ms.
WILSON of Florida, Mr. WOMACK, Mr.
LYNCH, and Mr. HASTINGS):
H.R. 1043. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend the exclusion for
employer-provided educational assistance to
employer payments of qualified education
loans; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. LOFGREN (for herself, Mr.
BUCK, Mr. BACON, Mr. BARR, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. BERA, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Ms. BONAMICI, Mrs.
BROOKS of Indiana, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Mr. CALVERT, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. COHEN, Mr. COMER, Mr.
COOPER, Mr. COSTA, Mr. COURTNEY,
Mr. COX of California, Mr. CROW, Mr.
CURTIS, Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas, Mr.
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Ms.
DEGETTE, Mr. DEUTCH, Mrs. DINGELL,
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. EMMER, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. ESTES,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. FOSTER, Mr.
GIBBS, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr.
GUEST, Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr. HARDER of
California, Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER,
Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr. HILL of Ar-
kansas, Mr. HURD of Texas, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. JOHNSON
of Ohio, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. KATKO, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. KIND, Mr. KING of New
York, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. LAR-
SEN of Washington, Mr. LAWSON of
Florida, Mr. LONG, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr.
MASSIE, Ms. MATSUI, Mrs. MCBATH,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mrs. RODGERS of Wash-
ington, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MENG, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. MORELLE, Mr. NORMAN,
Mr. PALLONE, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, Mr. PERRY, Ms. PINGREE, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Mr. RASKIN,
Miss RICE of New York, Mr.
RIGGLEMAN, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Ten-
nessee, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr. SAR-
BANES, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
SHALALA, Mr. SIRES, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, Mr. SOTO, Ms. SPEIER,
Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. STEWART, Mr.
STIVERS, Mr. SWALWELL of California,
Mr. TAKANO, Ms. TITUS, Mr. TONKO,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
UPTON, Mrs. WAGNER, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. WELCH, Mr.
WESTERMAN, Ms. WILD, Mr. WOODALL,
Mr. YARMUTH, Mr. YOUNG, Mr.
NEWHOUSE, Mr. NADLER, Mr. AGUILAR,
and Mrs. MURPHY):
H.R. 1044. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to eliminate the per-
country numerical limitation for employ-
ment-based immigrants, to increase the per-
country numerical limitation for family-
sponsored immigrants, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. FOSTER (for himself, Mr.
DEUTCH, Ms. NORTON, Mr. CARSON of
Indiana, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. NADLER,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. OMAR,
Ms. MOORE, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. RASKIN, and Mr. MCGOV-
ERN):
H.R. 1045. A bill to provide for improve-
ments in the treatment of detainees, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. CUMMINGS, Ms. ADAMS,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:26 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L07FE7.100 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1459
February 7, 2019
Ms. BASS, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. CART-
WRIGHT, Mr. CASE, Mr. CASTEN of Illi-
nois, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr. CAS-
TRO of Texas, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. CISNEROS,
Mr. CLAY, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. CRIST, Mr. CROW,
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Ms. DELAURO, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. MI-
CHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. EVANS,
Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Texas, Mr. GREEN of Texas,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
HARDER of California, Mr. HASTINGS,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Ms. HILL of
California, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms.
KAPTUR, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. KIM, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI,
Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. LARSON of Con-
necticut, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Ms.
LEE of California, Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr.
LEWIS, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. LOEBSACK,
Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
LYNCH, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALO-
NEY of New York, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Ms. MOORE, Mr. NADLER,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. NEGUSE, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. PETER-
SON, Mr. PHILLIPS, Ms. PINGREE, Mr.
POCAN, Ms. PORTER, Ms. PRESSLEY,
Mr. RASKIN, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. ROSE
of New York, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD,
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. SARBANES, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. SCOTT of
Virginia, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. SHERMAN,
Ms. SLOTKIN, Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr.
SUOZZI, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, Ms. TITUS, Ms. TLAIB,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. WATERS,
Ms. WILD, Mr. YARMUTH, and Mr.
MALINOWSKI):
H.R. 1046. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to require the Secretary
of Health and Human Services to negotiate
prices of prescription drugs furnished under
part D of the Medicare program; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. DUNN:
H.R. 1047. A bill to give effect to more ac-
curate maps of units of the John H. Chafee
Coastal Barrier Resources System that were
produced by digital mapping of such units,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. NEWHOUSE (for himself and
Ms. SCHRIER):
H.R. 1048. A bill to authorize phase III of
the Yakima River Basin Water Enhancement
Project, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. TONKO (for himself, Mr.
MCKINLEY, Mr. ALLEN, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Mr. BOST, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. CART-
WRIGHT, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. COLLINS of New
York, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. COURTNEY,
Ms. DEAN, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. MI-
CHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Mr. HIMES, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. KELLY of
Pennsylvania, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. KIL-
MER, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
LAHOOD, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr.
LOEBSACK, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Mr. MEUSER, Mr. MITCH-
ELL, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. NADLER, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. NEAL, Mr. NEGUSE,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
SARBANES, Mr. SOTO, Mr. THOMPSON
of Mississippi, Mr. THOMPSON of
Pennsylvania, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. TUR-
NER, Mr. UPTON, Ms. WILD, and Mr.
HASTINGS):
H.R. 1049. A bill to authorize a National
Heritage Area Program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. HAALAND (for herself, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
SIRES, Mr. LARSEN of Washington,
Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. SERRANO, Mr.
PETERS, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Ms. MOORE, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Mr. SMITH of Washington,
Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. HILL of California,
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Mr. BEYER, Mr. AGUILAR,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Ms. NORTON, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Ms. TITUS, Ms. MENG, Ms.
DEGETTE, Ms. BONAMICI, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
WELCH, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of
Georgia, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. KILMER,
Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Mr. RUIZ, Ms. PINGREE,
Mr. SOTO, Mr. NEAL, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. NEGUSE,
Ms. PORTER, Mr. MCEACHIN, Ms. JUDY
CHU of California, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. MI-
CHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. POCAN, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Ms. SHALALA, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Mr. HASTINGS,
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico,
Mr. RASKIN, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, and Ms. SPEIER):
H.R. 1050. A bill to provide for the adminis-
tration of certain national monuments, to
establish a National Monument Enhance-
ment Fund, and to establish certain wilder-
ness areas in the States of New Mexico and
Nevada; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama (for her-
self, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Ms. MOORE,
and Mr. RASKIN):
H.R. 1051. A bill to amend section 1341 of
title 31, United States Code, to require pay-
ment of interest on back pay for employees
affected by a lapse in appropriations; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama (for her-
self and Mr. SMITH of Nebraska):
H.R. 1052. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for direct
payment to physician assistants under the
Medicare program for certain services fur-
nished by such physician assistants; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committee on Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CARBAJAL (for himself and
Ms. LOFGREN):
H.R. 1053. A bill to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to direct the Securities
and Exchange Commission to issue regula-
tions to require public corporations to dis-
close political expenditures, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Financial
Services.
By Ms. ADAMS (for herself, Mr. WALK-
ER, Mr. HILL of Arkansas, and Ms. SE-
WELL of Alabama):
H.R. 1054. A bill to strengthen the capacity
and competitiveness of historically Black
colleges and universities through robust pub-
lic-sector, private-sector, and community
partnerships and engagement, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform, and in addition to the Committee on
Education and Labor, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mrs. LOWEY (for herself, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. CONNOLLY, Miss RICE
of New York, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Ms. NORTON, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Ms. DELBENE, Ms.
BONAMICI, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Ms. PINGREE, Mr.
KEATING, Ms. CLARK of Massachu-
setts, Mr. POCAN, Mr. FOSTER, Mr.
MOULTON, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Mr. SARBANES, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. RUSH, Ms. MENG, Mr.
RUIZ, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mrs. DINGELL,
Mr. SCHNEIDER, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. KILMER, Mr. BROWN
of Maryland, Mr. COOPER, Mr. LARSON
of Connecticut, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
CASTOR of Florida, Mr. GREEN of
Texas, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. BERA, Mr.
SCHRADER, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. CARSON
of Indiana, Mr. SMITH of Washington,
Mr. SIRES, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms.
MATSUI, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms. MOORE,
Mr. PAYNE, Mr. KHANNA, Ms.
FRANKEL, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
YARMUTH, Ms. TITUS, Mr. SOTO, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York,
Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
SERRANO, Ms. SHALALA, Mr. DEUTCH,
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mrs. TORRES of
California, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms.
DEGETTE, Mr. CRIST, Mr. PETERS, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Ms. OMAR,
Mr. WELCH, Mr. COHEN, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia,
Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. ROSE of New York,
Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. VARGAS, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. TED LIEU
of California, Mr. NADLER, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. HIGGINS
of New York, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. CUM-
MINGS, Mrs. DEMINGS, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. PASCRELL, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. TONKO,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. PALLONE, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina, Ms. BASS, Mr. HECK,
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. PAPPAS,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas, Ms. KAPTUR, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER, Ms. DEAN, Mr. KIND,
Ms. FUDGE, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER,
Mrs. FLETCHER, Ms. WATERS, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:26 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L07FE7.100 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1460 February 7, 2019
HIMES, Ms. WILD, Ms. SCANLON, Ms.
JUDY CHU of California, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mr. RYAN, Mr. RASKIN, Ms. SÁNCHEZ,
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. TRONE,
Ms. HILL of California, Ms. SLOTKIN,
Mr. VISCLOSKY, Mr. LAWSON of Flor-
ida, Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. NEGUSE,
Ms. WEXTON, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
MORELLE, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Ms. SCHRIER, and
Mr. PERLMUTTER):
H.R. 1055. A bill to prohibit the application
of certain restrictive eligibility require-
ments to foreign nongovernmental organiza-
tions with respect to the provision of assist-
ance under part I of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 1056. A bill to designate the Frank and
Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead Special Man-
agement Area in the State of Oregon; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia (for him-
self, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE
of Pennsylvania, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr. CICILLINE,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. COOPER, Mr. CUM-
MINGS, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. ENGEL, Ms. ESHOO,
Mr. FOSTER, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. KHANNA,
Mr. KILMER, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. TED
LIEU of California, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr.
LUJÁN, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. MOORE,
Mr. MOULTON, Ms. MUCARSEL-POW-
ELL, Mr. NADLER, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
PASCRELL, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. RASKIN,
Mr. SARBANES, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. SMITH of
Washington, Ms. SPEIER, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Mr. TAKANO,
Mr. TONKO, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ,
Mr. WELCH, and Mr. YARMUTH):
H.R. 1057. A bill to amend title 28, United
States Code, to provide for a code of conduct
for justices and judges of the courts of the
United States; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for him-
self and Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of
Pennsylvania):
H.R. 1058. A bill to reauthorize certain pro-
visions of the Public Health Service Act re-
lating to autism, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. ARRINGTON (for himself, Mr.
WOMACK, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. FLORES,
Mr. TIMMONS, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio,
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, Mr.
CRENSHAW, Mr. MEUSER, Mr.
BURCHETT, Mr. HOLDING, Mr. STEW-
ART, Ms. FINKENAUER, and Mrs.
AXNE):
H.R. 1059. A bill to ensure timely comple-
tion of the concurrent resolution on the
budget and regular appropriation bills, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Rules, and in addition to the Committee on
the Budget, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. LOUDERMILK (for himself and
Mr. SHERMAN):
H.R. 1060. A bill to provide regulatory re-
lief to charitable organizations that provide
housing assistance, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. WATKINS (for himself, Ms. DA-
VIDS of Kansas, Mr. MARSHALL, and
Mr. ESTES):
H.R. 1061. A bill to modify the boundary of
the Fort Scott National Historic Site in the
State of Kansas, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself,
Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. DOGGETT, and
Mr. CUELLAR):
H.R. 1062. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of Homeland Security to work with cyberse-
curity consortia for training, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity.
By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself and
Mr. MEADOWS):
H.R. 1063. A bill to amend title 44, United
States Code, to require information on con-
tributors to Presidential library fundraising
organizations, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. HILL of California (for herself
and Mr. MEADOWS):
H.R. 1064. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to allow whistleblowers to dis-
close information to certain recipients; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. LYNCH:
H.R. 1065. A bill to provide for a study on
the use of social media in security clearance
investigations; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself and
Mr. LAMALFA):
H.R. 1066. A bill to amend the Richard B.
Russell National School Lunch Act to re-
quire a school food authority to make pub-
licly available any waiver of the Buy Amer-
ican requirement, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. AGUILAR (for himself and Mr.
COOK):
H.R. 1067. A bill to direct the Secretary of
the Interior to convey certain Federal lands
in San Bernardino County, California, to the
San Bernardino Valley Water Conservation
District, and to accept in return certain non-
Federal lands, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. BUDD:
H.R. 1068. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to ensure that the tem-
porary refundable portion of the child tax
credit is not less than the payroll taxes paid
by the taxpayer; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
MCGOVERN, and Mr. CASTRO of
Texas):
H.R. 1069. A bill to prohibit the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services from op-
erating unlicensed temporary emergency
shelters for unaccompanied alien children; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself and Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 1070. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the dollar and
income limitations on the deduction for stu-
dent loan interest; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 1071. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the
deduction for qualified tuition and related
expenses; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. COLLINS of New York (for him-
self, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. LAMALFA,
Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. DUNCAN, and Mr.
REED):
H.R. 1072. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to limit the authority of States
and localities to regulate conduct, or impose
penalties or taxes, in relation to rifles or
shotguns; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Ms.
MOORE, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. TRONE, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. SARBANES,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. GARAMENDI,
Mr. POCAN, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia,
Mr. SABLAN, Miss RICE of New York,
Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr. VELA,
and Ms. WATERS):
H.R. 1073. A bill to increase the rates of
pay under the statutory pay systems and for
prevailing rate employees by 3.6 percent, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. COURTNEY (for himself, Mr.
SCOTT of Virginia, Ms. ADAMS, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Ms. WILSON of Florida,
Mr. TAKANO, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. SABLAN, Mr. NOR-
CROSS, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. MORELLE, Ms. WILD, Mr.
NADLER, Mr. PALLONE, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Ms. NORTON, Ms. TITUS, Mr.
POCAN, Mr. LYNCH, Ms. MOORE, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, and Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada):
H.R. 1074. A bill to amend the Occupational
Safety and Health Act of 1970 to expand cov-
erage under the Act, to increase protections
for whistleblowers, to increase penalties for
high gravity violations, to adjust penalties
for inflation, to provide rights for victims or
their family members, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself, Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER, and Mr. SARBANES):
H.R. 1075. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to amend the process by
which students with certain special cir-
cumstances apply for Federal financial aid;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself and
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia):
H.R. 1076. A bill to prohibit Federal agen-
cies and Federal contractors from requesting
that an applicant for employment disclose
criminal history record information before
the applicant has received a conditional
offer, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform, and in addi-
tion to the Committees on House Adminis-
tration, the Judiciary, Armed Services, and
Education and Labor, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio (for him-
self, Mr. WALKER, Mr. LOUDERMILK,
Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr.
POSEY, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. GIBBS, Mr.
GALLAGHER, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. PERRY,
Mr. PALMER, Mr. ALLEN, and Mr.
YOHO):
H.R. 1077. A bill to require the Congres-
sional Budget Office to make publicly avail-
able the fiscal and mathematical models,
data, and other details of computations used
in cost analysis and scoring; to the Com-
mittee on the Budget.
By Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas (for him-
self and Mr. YOUNG):
H.R. 1078. A bill to prohibit the removal
from the United States of certain veterans,
to expedite their naturalization, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, and in addition to the Committees
on Armed Services, and Veterans’ Affairs, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana (for him-
self and Mr. KENNEDY):
H.R. 1079. A bill to require the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget to
issue guidance on electronic consent forms,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:26 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L07FE7.100 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1461
February 7, 2019
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. GRIJALVA (for himself, Ms.
DELAURO, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. COX of
California, Ms. WILSON of Florida,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
HASTINGS, Ms. NORTON, Mr. POCAN,
Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
SCOTT of Virginia, and Mr. MCGOV-
ERN):
H.R. 1080. A bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to provide increased
labor law protections for agricultural work-
ers, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. HECK (for himself, Mr. CON-
AWAY, Ms. KAPTUR, and Mr. ROONEY
of Florida):
H.R. 1081. A bill to require reports by the
Secretary of State, the Secretary of the
Treasury, and the Director of National Intel-
ligence relating to construction of the Nord
Stream 2 pipeline, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Intelligence
(Permanent Select), for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Ms. JAYAPAL (for herself and Mr.
KING of New York):
H.R. 1082. A bill to plan, develop, and make
recommendations to increase access to sex-
ual assault examinations for survivors by
holding hospitals accountable and sup-
porting the providers that serve them; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committees on Ways and
Means, and Education and Labor, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr. CUM-
MINGS, Ms. SPEIER, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
HIGGINS of New York, Ms. STEFANIK,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. RASKIN,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, and Mr. HURD of Texas):
H.R. 1083. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to redesign $20 Federal reserve
notes so as to include a likeness of Harriet
Tubman, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania (for
himself, Mr. WENSTRUP, Mr.
ARRINGTON, Mr. LAHOOD, Mr. SMITH
of Missouri, Mr. FERGUSON, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Mr. ESTES, Mr. REED,
and Mr. MARCHANT):
H.R. 1084. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to encourage retirement
and family savings, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in
addition to the Committees on Education
and Labor, and the Budget, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mrs. LESKO (for herself, Mr.
GOSAR, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Mr. BIGGS, Mr. DAVID-
SON of Ohio, and Mr. CHABOT):
H.R. 1085. A bill to require any amounts re-
maining in Members’ Representational Al-
lowances at the end of a fiscal year to be de-
posited in the Treasury and used for deficit
reduction or to reduce the Federal debt; to
the Committee on House Administration.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California (for
himself, Mr. SMITH of Washington,
Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. BLUMENAUER,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. DEFAZIO,
Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. PAYNE, Mr.
BEYER, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. RUSH, Ms.
BONAMICI, Ms. NORTON, Ms. PINGREE,
Mr. POCAN, Ms. SPEIER, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. OMAR, Mr. CISNEROS,
and Mr. GRIJALVA):
H.R. 1086. A bill to prohibit the research
and development, production, and deploy-
ment of the Trident D5 low-yield nuclear
warhead, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER (for himself,
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia, Mr. HOLDING,
Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr.
ARRINGTON, Mr. ROUZER, Mr. CHABOT,
Mr. HARRIS, and Mr. RATCLIFFE):
H.R. 1087. A bill to require each agency, in
providing notice of a rule making, to include
a link to a 100 word plain language summary
of the proposed rule; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. MARSHALL:
H.R. 1088. A bill to authorize the Society of
the First Infantry Division to make modi-
fications to the First Division Monument lo-
cated on Federal land in Presidential Park in
District of Columbia, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
H.R. 1089. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to clarify that gain or loss
on the sale or exchange of certain coins or
bullion is exempt from recognition; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 1090. A bill to extend to the Mayor of
the District of Columbia the same authority
over the National Guard of the District of
Columbia as the Governors of the several
States exercise over the National Guard of
those States with respect to administration
of the National Guard and its use to respond
to natural disasters and other civil disturb-
ances, while ensuring that the President re-
tains control of the National Guard of the
District of Columbia to respond to homeland
defense emergencies; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform, and in addition to the
Committee on Armed Services, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 1091. A bill to clarify certain land de-
scriptions under the Northern Arizona Land
Exchange and Verde River Basin Partnership
Act of 2005; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. PINGREE (for herself, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Ms. MOORE, Mr. RUSH, Ms. NORTON,
Ms. DELBENE, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms.
LOFGREN, and Mr. SABLAN):
H.R. 1092. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to expand health care and bene-
fits from the Department of Veterans Affairs
for military sexual trauma, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs, and in addition to the Committee on
Armed Services, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. POCAN (for himself and Ms.
KAPTUR):
H.R. 1093. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to establish an excise tax
on certain prescription drugs which have
been subject to a price spike, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Committee
on Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina (for
himself, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. MOULTON,
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. SERRANO,
Mr. COLE, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms.
TITUS, Mr. HIMES, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Ms. MOORE, Mr. KIND, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. LANGEVIN, and Ms.
LOFGREN):
H.R. 1094. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of Defense to make grants to support the
study of world languages in elementary
schools and secondary schools; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Armed Services,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. RICE of South Carolina:
H.R. 1095. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to automatically postpone
certain deadlines in the case of taxpayers lo-
cated in a disaster area; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mrs. RODGERS of Washington:
H.R. 1096. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to provide for open internet
requirements for providers of broadband
internet access service; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself
and Mr. MASSIE):
H.R. 1097. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prevent unjust and irrational
criminal punishments; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for him-
self, Mr. CONNOLLY, and Mr.
FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 1098. A bill to gather information
about the illicit production of illicit
fentanyl in foreign countries and to withhold
bilateral assistance from countries that do
not have emergency scheduling procedures
for new illicit drugs, cannot prosecute crimi-
nals for the manufacture or distribution of
controlled substance analogues, or do not re-
quire the registration of tableting machines
and encapsulating machines; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. SERRANO (for himself, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
CARSON of Indiana, and Mr. LYNCH):
H.R. 1099. A bill to require construction in-
spection functions be conducted by public
employees, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for him-
self and Ms. VELÁZQUEZ):
H.R. 1100. A bill to direct the Attorney
General to make grants to States that have
in place laws that expand the protections of-
fered to victims of sex offenses who are not
in a familiar or dating relationship with the
perpetrators of such offenses; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. WALDEN:
H.R. 1101. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to ensure internet openness,
to prohibit blocking lawful content and non-
harmful devices, to prohibit throttling data,
to prohibit paid prioritization, to require
transparency of network management prac-
tices, to provide that broadband shall be con-
sidered to be an information service, and to
prohibit the Commission or a State commis-
sion from relying on section 706 of the Tele-
communications Act of 1996 as a grant of au-
thority; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (for
herself, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Ms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:26 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L07FE7.100 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1462 February 7, 2019
SHALALA, and Ms. MUCARSEL-POW-
ELL):
H.R. 1102. A bill to assess and mitigate
threats posed by Russian-Venezuelan co-
operation, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. DEFA-
ZIO, and Ms. BONAMICI):
H.R. 1103. A bill to amend the market
name of genetically altered salmon in the
United States, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. DEFA-
ZIO, and Ms. BONAMICI):
H.R. 1104. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require la-
beling of genetically engineered fish; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. DEFA-
ZIO, and Ms. BONAMICI):
H.R. 1105. A bill to prevent the escapement
of genetically altered salmon in the United
States, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself, Mr. KING
of New York, Mr. MEADOWS, and Mr.
BROOKS of Alabama):
H.R. 1106. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to provide that individ-
uals who naturalized under title III of that
Act, who are affiliated with a criminal gang,
are subject to revocation of citizenship, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ (for herself,
Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. TLAIB, Mr.
SERRANO, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY
of New York, Mr. VARGAS, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. LYNCH, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. KHANNA,
Mr. TED LIEU of California, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. WELCH, Mr. ENGEL,
Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. NADLER, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. POCAN, Mr. TAKANO,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. MATSUI,
Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr.
LEVIN of California, Ms. PINGREE, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr.
HIGGINS of New York, Ms. HAALAND,
Ms. MENG, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. COHEN, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr.
MOULTON, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. MEEKS,
Mr. SABLAN, Ms. LEE of California,
Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. LEVIN of
Michigan, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. LAR-
SON of Connecticut, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. KEATING, Mr. DEFAZIO,
Ms. ESHOO, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. GOMEZ,
Mr. KENNEDY, and Ms. WATERS):
H. Res. 109. A resolution recognizing the
duty of the Federal Government to create a
Green New Deal; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committees on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology, Education and Labor, Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure, Agriculture, Nat-
ural Resources, Foreign Affairs, Financial
Services, the Judiciary, Ways and Means,
and Oversight and Reform, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana:
H. Res. 110. A resolution amending the
Rules of the House of Representatives to re-
quire a specific oath be administered to any
witness appearing before a committee; to the
Committee on Rules.
By Ms. LEE of California:
H. Res. 111. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of National Black HIV/AIDS
Awareness Day; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida (for himself
and Mr. GAETZ):
H. Res. 112. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
sea level rise and flooding are of urgent con-
cern impacting Florida that require
proactive measures for community planning
and the States tourism-based economy to
adapt; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
f
PRIVATE BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey introduced a bill
(H.R. 1107) for the relief of Judge Neringa
Venckiene, who the Government of Lith-
uania seeks on charges related to her pursuit
of justice against Lithuanian public officials
accused of sexually molesting her young
niece; which was referred to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Ms. SPEIER:
H.R. 1032.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Ms. SPEIER:
H.R. 1033.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia:
H.R. 1034.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States of America
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia:
H.R. 1035.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States of America
By Mr. RIGGLEMAN:
H.R. 1036.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. RIGGLEMAN:
H.R. 1037.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. RIGGLEMAN:
H.R. 1038.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, clause 18 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. RIGGLEMAN:
H.R. 1039.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3,
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18,
By Mr. BURGESS:
H.R. 1040.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The attached bill falls within Congress’
constitutionally enumerated power to enact
legislation pertaining to an income tax pur-
suant to Article I, Section VIII, ‘‘The Con-
gress shall have power to lay and collect
Taxes.’’
Moreover, Congress was given the author-
ity to tax income at the federal level pursu-
ant to Amendment XVI, ‘‘The Congress shall
have power to lay and collect taxes on in-
comes, from whatever source derived, with-
out apportionment among the several states,
and without regard to any census or enu-
meration.’’
By Mr. SMITH of Nebraska:
H.R. 1041.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1
By Ms. TITUS:
H.R. 1042.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. PETERS:
H.R. 1043.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. LOFGREN:
H.R. 1044.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 4 provides Con-
gress with the power to establish a ‘‘uniform
rule of Naturalization.’’
By Mr. FOSTER:
H.R. 1045.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. DOGGETT:
H.R. 1046.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution.
By Mr. DUNN:
H.R. 1047.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. NEWHOUSE:
H.R. 1048.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. TONKO:
H.R. 1049.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause I
Provides Congress with the power to ‘‘lay
and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Ex-
cises’’ in order to ‘‘provide for the . . . gen-
eral Welfare of the United States.’’
By Ms. HAALAND:
H.R. 1050.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama:
H.R. 1051.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama:
H.R. 1052.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:47 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L07FE7.100 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1463
February 7, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1.
[Page H3316]
By Mr. CARBAJAL:
H.R. 1053.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. ADAMS:
H.R. 1054.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mrs. LOWEY:
H.R. 1055.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 1056.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (relating to
the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress)
By Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia:
H.R. 1057.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section VIII
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
H.R. 1058.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution.
By Mr. ARRINGTON:
H.R. 1059.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 5
By Mr. LOUDERMILK:
H.R. 1060.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution.
By Mr. WATKINS:
H.R. 1061.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. CASTRO of Texas:
H.R. 1062.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Constitutional Authority—Necessary and
Proper Clause (Art. I, Sec. 8, Clause 18)
THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
ARTICLE I, SECTION 8: POWERS OF
CONGRESS
CLAUSE 18
The Congress shall have power . . . To
make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the fore-
going powers, and all other powers vested by
this Constitution in the government of the
United States, or in any department or offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 1063.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. HILL of California:
H.R. 1064.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Constitution—Article I, Section 8
By Mr. LYNCH:
H.R. 1065.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Art. I, Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. GARAMENDI:
H.R. 1066.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. AGUILAR:
H.R. 1067.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. BUDD:
H.R. 1068.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 1069.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution.
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 1071.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. COLLINS of New York:
H.R. 1072.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1, of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 1073.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Mr. COURTNEY:
H.R. 1074.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, section 8.
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 1075.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 1076.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio:
H.R. 1077.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into the Execution for the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constition in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas:
H.R. 1078.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution; Article I, Section 8, Clause 4 of
the U.S. Constitution; Article I, Section 8,
Clause 11 of the U.S. Constitution; Article I,
Section 8, Clause 12 of the U.S. Constitution;
Article I, Section 8, Clause 13 of the U.S.
Constitution; Article I, Section 8, Clause 14
of the U.S. Constitution; Article I, Section 8,
Clause 15 of the U.S. Constitution; Article I,
Section 8, Clause 16 of the U.S. Constitution;
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the U.S.
Constitution.
By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana:
H.R. 1079.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution, specifically Clause 1 (relating
to providing for the common defense and
general welfare of the United States) and
Clause 18 (relating to the power to make all
laws necessary and proper for carrying out
the powers vested in Congress).
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 1080.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. I, §§ l and 8.
By Mr. HECK:
H.R. 1081.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clauses 3 and 18 of article I, section 8 of
the United States Constitution.
By Ms. JAYAPAL:
H.R. 1082.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clauses 1, 3, and 18 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. KATKO:
H.R. 1083.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 5 of the U.S.
Constitution.
By Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania:
H.R. 1084.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress enacts this bill pursuant to
Article I Section 8 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mrs. LESKO:
H.R. 1085.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 9, Clause 7 states that
‘‘no money shall be drawn from the Treas-
ury, but in consequence of appropriations
made by law and a regular statement and ac-
count of the receipts and expenditures of all
public money shall be published from time to
time.’’
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 1086.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
H.R. 1087.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. MARSHALL:
H.R. 1088.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, 18: To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.
By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
H.R. 1089.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following: The con-
stitutional authority for the Monetary Met-
als Tax Neutrality Act of 2019 is found in Ar-
ticle I, Section 8, which gives Congress the
power to lay and collect taxes.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 1090.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 17 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 1091.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Ms. PINGREE:
H.R. 1092.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:26 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.051 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1464 February 7, 2019
Section 8 of Article I of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. POCAN:
H.R. 1093.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. PRICE of North Carolina:
H.R. 1094.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
As described in Article 1, Section 1, ‘‘all
legislative powers herein granted shall be
vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives.’’
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution provides Congress with the author-
ity to ‘‘provide for the common Defense and
general Welfare’’ of Americans.
The intelligence and intelligence-related
activities of the United States government,
including those under Title 50 of the United
States Code, are carried out to support the
national security interests of the United
States, to support and assist the armed
forces of the United States, and to support
the President in the execution of the foreign
policy of the United States.
In the Department of Education Organiza-
tion Act (P.L. 96–88), Congress declared that
‘‘the establishment of a Department of Edu-
cation is in the public interest, will promote
the general welfare of the United States, will
help ensure that education issues receive
proper treatment at the Federal level, and
will enable the Federal Government to co-
ordinate its education activities more effec-
tively.’’ The Department of Education’s mis-
sion is to ‘‘promote student achievement and
preparation for global competitiveness by
fostering educational excellence and ensur-
ing equal access.’’
By Mr. RICE of South Carolina:
H.R. 1095.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defense and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States;
By Mrs. RODGERS of Washington:
H.R. 1096.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Sec. 8, Clause 3 Congress shall
have the Power . . . To regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian Tribes;
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia:
H.R. 1097.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
H.R. 1098.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. SERRANO:
H.R. 1099.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 7 of the U.S.
Constitution
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
H.R. 1100.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution.
By Mr. WALDEN:
H.R. 1101.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ:
H.R. 1102.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the U.S. Constitution.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 1103.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘‘To regulate commerce with foreign na-
tions, and among the several states, and with
the Indian tribes;’’
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 1104.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘‘To regulate commerce with foreign na-
tions, and among the several states, and with
the Indian tribes;’’
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 1105.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘‘To regulate commerce with foreign na-
tions, and among the several states, and with
the Indian tribes;’’
By Mr. ZELDIN:
H.R. 1106.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
H.R. 1107.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, clause 4 of the Con-
stitution provides that Conress shall have
the power ‘‘To establish an uniform Rule of
Naturalization, and uniform Laws on the
subject of Bankruptcies throughout the
United States;’’
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 33: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 35: Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. CISNEROS, and Mr.
SHERMAN.
H.R. 51: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 89: Mr. LOUDERMILK.
H.R. 93: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 95: Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
GREEN of Texas, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. ESTES,
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington, Mr. VISCLOSKY,
Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. GUTH-
RIE, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. NADLER,
Mr. LYNCH, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. BEYER, Mr.
NORMAN, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr.
DELGADO, Ms. GRANGER, Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr.
KELLY of Mississippi, Mr. WELCH, Mr.
AGUILAR, and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 141: Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Mr.
BARR, and Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 155: Mr. SCALISE, Mr. BROOKS of Ala-
bama, and Mr. GRAVES of Missouri.
H.R. 188: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey and Mr.
ZELDIN.
H.R. 204: Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 216: Mr. LAMALFA.
H.R. 219: Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. BUCK,
and Mr. BARR.
H.R. 249: Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 273: Mr. SWALWELL of California and
Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 295: Mr. YOHO.
H.R. 299: Mr. STEUBE, Mr. LATTA, Ms.
WEXTON, Mr. WATKINS, Mr. KING of New
York, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr. MCCLIN-
TOCK, Mr. WEBSTER of Florida, Ms. SHERRILL,
Ms. SHALALA, Mr. HORSFORD, Mrs. MILLER,
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Ms. WILD, Mr. GUTHRIE,
Mr. SIMPSON, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. GAETZ, Mr.
AMASH, Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
SUOZZI, Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr. GOH-
MERT, and Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 305: Mr. CLOUD, Mr. LUETKEMEYER,
and Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky.
H.R. 307: Mr. QUIGLEY and Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio.
H.R. 309: Mrs. LURIA and Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 339: Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, and Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 344: Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mrs. HARTZLER,
and Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 369: Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 394: Ms. TLAIB and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 397: Mr. BRINDISI, Ms. TITUS, Mrs.
CRAIG, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. SMITH
of Washington, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. SERRANO,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. ROY-
BAL-ALLARD, and Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 401: Mr. GOSAR, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Mr. BIGGS, Mrs. LESKO, Mr.
NEAL, and Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 450: Mr. KINZINGER and Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY.
H.R. 479: Mr. JORDAN and Mr. CARTER of
Georgia.
H.R. 485: Ms. PINGREE, Mr. COLE, and Mr.
MEADOWS.
H.R. 494: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 507: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 526: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 538: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 550: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, Mr.
PALLONE, Ms. WILD, and Mr. BACON.
H.R. 553: Mr. KELLY of Mississippi.
H.R. 555: Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. KIND, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York, and Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 562: Mr. RYAN, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ,
Ms. MOORE, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, and Mr. KIND.
H.R. 579: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 580: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 587: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 590: Ms. PORTER.
H.R. 613: Mr. COLLINS of New York and
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico.
H.R. 621: Mr. MAST and Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 628: Mr. BUDD, Mrs. BROOKS of Indi-
ana, and Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 638: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee and Mr.
ROUZER.
H.R. 641: Ms. DELAURO.
H.R. 647: Mr. HECK and Mr. KIND.
H.R. 649: Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 663: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr.
HIMES, and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 669: Ms. OMAR and Mr. THOMPSON of
California.
H.R. 678: Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 734: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 738: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 740: Mr. JONES.
H.R. 741: Mr. STEIL.
H.R. 744: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 748: Mr. STEWART, Mr. POSEY, Mr.
BRINDISI, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Mr. WALBERG, Mr. CLOUD, Mr.
LAHOOD, Mr. KEVIN Hern of Oklahoma, Mrs.
LURIA, Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. WATKINS,
and Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 763: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 764: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 770: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 796: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina,
Mr. BABIN, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. WRIGHT, and Mr.
ROUZER.
H.R. 806: Mr. CONNOLLY.
H.R. 808: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 810: Mr. HIMES and Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 824: Mr. TONKO, Mr. RICE of South
Carolina, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. PAYNE, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:26 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.056 H07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1465
February 7, 2019
TRONE, Mrs. TORRES of California, Ms. LOF-
GREN, and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 832: Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Mr. KING of
Iowa, and Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 840: Mrs. LURIA, Mr. HORSFORD, and
Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 845: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 848: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 850: Mr. HUDSON and Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 863: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 864: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 872: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 873: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 874: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 878: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 883: Ms. ESCOBAR, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr.
SOTO, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. GOMEZ, and Mr.
VARGAS.
H.R. 888: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
WILLIAMS, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, and Mr. ESTES.
H.R. 897: Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr. LATTA, Mr.
LAHOOD, Mr. CALVERT, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, and
Mr. OLSON.
H.R. 898: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 914: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas and Mr.
STIVERS.
H.R. 915: Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 918: Ms. LEE of California and Mr.
DESAULNIER.
H.R. 934: Ms. WILD, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. MCKIN-
LEY, Mr. SABLAN, Ms. NORTON, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, and Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 936: Mr. CISNEROS and Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 948: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 949: Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. PENCE,
and Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 962: Mr. STEIL, Mr. BIGGS, Mr. ADER-
HOLT, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. COOK,
Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio, Mr. WATKINS, Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. TURNER,
Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee, Mr. SMITH of
New Jersey, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Mr. WEB-
STER of Florida, Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr.
FULCHER, Mr. BERGMAN, Mr. OLSON, Mr.
LOUDERMILK, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. GUEST, Mr. CURTIS, Mr. WALTZ, Mr.
MITCHELL, Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mrs. LESKO, Mr.
DUFFY, Mrs. MILLER, Mr. BUCK, Mr. MCCAUL,
Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
MARCHANT, Mr. FLORES, Mr. WRIGHT, Mr.
BAIRD, Mr. CARTER of Texas, and Mr. HOLD-
ING.
H.R. 965: Mr. WESTERMAN.
H.R. 1002: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 1019: Mr. BACON, Mr. BANKS, Mr. BARR,
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mrs. BROOKS of Indi-
ana, Mr. CALVERT, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. COHEN, Mr. COLE, Mr. COOK,
Mr. COOPER, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. ESHOO, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr.
HIGGINS of New York, Mr. HOLDING, Mr. HURD
of Texas, Mr. JONES, Mr. KILMER, Mr. KIM,
Mr. KING of New York, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms.
MENG, Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr.
MOULTON, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, Mr. OLSON, Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr.
ROSE of New York, Mr. RUSH, Mr. RUTHER-
FORD, Mr. RYAN, Ms. SHERRILL, Mr. SUOZZI,
Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr. TURNER, Mr.
WALTZ, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. STIV-
ERS, Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, Mr.
BAIRD, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico,
Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsyl-
vania, and Mr. TAKANO.
H.J. Res. 22: Mr. STEUBE.
H.J. Res. 34: Mr. JORDAN.
H. Con. Res. 4: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H. Res. 23: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, Mr.
SUOZZI, and Ms. NORTON.
H. Res. 33: Mr. NEGUSE, Ms. TLAIB, Mr.
STIVERS, and Ms. WEXTON.
H. Res. 34: Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. GAETZ, Mr.
CICILLINE, and Mr. QUIGLEY.
H. Res. 47: Mrs. LESKO.
H. Res. 49: Mr. SIRES, Mr. BANKS, Mr. YOHO,
Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr.
BACON, Mr. CRENSHAW, and Mr. ALLEN.
H. Res. 54: Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. LUCAS, Mr.
CRIST, and Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
H. Res. 58: Mr. LAMB.
H. Res. 60: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. ESHOO,
Mr. RYAN, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Mr. KILMER, Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
SCHIFF, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr.
VELA, Mr. NADLER, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
SUOZZI, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. POCAN,
Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
KINZINGER, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. SE-
WELL of Alabama, Mr. CRIST, Ms. DELAURO,
Miss RICE of New York, Mr. RUSH, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr.
PALLONE, Mr. LIPINSKI, Ms. MENG, Ms.
DELBENE, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. SMITH of New Jer-
sey, Mr. WEBSTER of Florida, Ms. NORTON,
and Mr. SERRANO.
H. Res. 72: Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. HARRIS, and
Mr. CURTIS.
H. Res. 88: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr. COURT-
NEY.
H. Res. 95: Mr. GARAMENDI and Mrs. TORRES
of California.
H. Res. 104: Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
ARMSTRONG, and Mr. BERGMAN.
H. Res. 106: Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. SENSEN-
BRENNER, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. WILSON of South Caro-
lina, Ms. MENG, Mr. CICILLINE, Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York, Mr. MCGOVERN,
and Mr. SERRANO.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:47 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE7.042 H07FEPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S1031
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2019 No. 24
Senate
The Senate met at 12 noon and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
O God who rides the wings of the
wind, You are powerful, yet patient.
Thank you for showing Your mercy to
those who love You. We praise You for
Your presence at our National Prayer
Breakfast this morning and for the
transforming manifestation of Your
power.
Today, continue to lead our Senators
along fresh paths of understanding,
providing them with insights to solve
the problems that impede our national
progress. May they look to You to di-
rect their steps as You surround them
with the shield of Your divine favor.
We pray in Your majestic Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
FISCHER). Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGE-
MENT ACT—MOTION TO PRO-
CEED—Resumed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of the motion to
proceed to S. 47, which the clerk will
report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Motion to proceed to S. 47, a bill to provide
for the management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other purposes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time
has expired.
The question is on agreeing to the
motion to proceed.
The motion was agreed to.
f
NATURAL RESOURCES
MANAGEMENT ACT
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 47) to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
AMENDMENT NO. 111, AS MODIFIED
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President,
I call up substitute amendment No. 111,
as modified, with changes at the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the amendment.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Alaska [Ms. MURKOWSKI]
proposes an amendment numbered 111, as
modified.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the read-
ing of the amendment be dispensed
with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 111), as modi-
fied, is as follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Natural Resources Management Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definition of Secretary.
TITLE I—PUBLIC LAND AND FORESTS
Subtitle A—Land Exchanges and
Conveyances
Sec. 1001. Crags land exchange, Colorado.
Sec. 1002. Arapaho National Forest bound-
ary adjustment.
Sec. 1003. Santa Ana River Wash Plan land
exchange.
Sec. 1004. Udall Park land exchange.
Sec. 1005. Confirmation of State land grants.
Sec. 1006. Custer County Airport convey-
ance.
Sec. 1007. Pascua Yaqui Tribe land convey-
ance.
Sec. 1008. La Paz County land conveyance.
Sec. 1009. Lake Bistineau land title sta-
bility.
Sec. 1010. Lake Fannin land conveyance.
Sec. 1011. Land conveyance and utility
right-of-way, Henry’s Lake Wil-
derness Study Area, Idaho.
Sec. 1012. Conveyance to Ukpeagvik Inupiat
Corporation.
Sec. 1013. Public purpose conveyance to City
of Hyde Park, Utah.
Sec. 1014. Juab County conveyance.
Sec. 1015. Black Mountain Range and Bull-
head City land exchange.
Sec. 1016. Cottonwood land exchange.
Sec. 1017. Embry-Riddle Tri-City land ex-
change.
Subtitle B—Public Land and National Forest
System Management
Sec. 1101. Bolts Ditch access.
Sec. 1102. Clarification relating to a certain
land description under the
Northern Arizona Land Ex-
change and Verde River Basin
Partnership Act of 2005.
Sec. 1103. Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild
Steelhead Special Management
Area.
Sec. 1104. Maintenance or replacement of fa-
cilities and structures at Smith
Gulch.
Sec. 1105. Repeal of provision limiting the
export of timber harvested from
certain Kake Tribal Corpora-
tion land.
Sec. 1106. Designation of Fowler and Boskoff
Peaks.
Sec. 1107. Coronado National Forest land
conveyance.
Sec. 1108. Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls
Wilderness Study Area bound-
ary adjustment, Oregon.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.000 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1032 February 7, 2019
Sec. 1109. Maintenance of Federal mineral
leases based on extraction of
helium.
Sec. 1110. Small miner waivers to claim
maintenance fees.
Sec. 1111. Saint Francis Dam Disaster Na-
tional Memorial and National
Monument.
Sec. 1112. Owyhee Wilderness Areas bound-
ary modifications.
Sec. 1113. Chugach Region land study.
Sec. 1114. Wildfire technology moderniza-
tion.
Sec. 1115. McCoy Flats Trail System.
Sec. 1116. Technical corrections to certain
laws relating to Federal land in
the State of Nevada.
Sec. 1117. Ashley Karst National Recreation
and Geologic Area.
Sec. 1118. John Wesley Powell National Con-
servation Area.
Sec. 1119. Alaska Native Vietnam era vet-
erans land allotment.
Sec. 1120. Red River gradient boundary sur-
vey.
Sec. 1121. San Juan County settlement im-
plementation.
Sec. 1122. Rio Puerco Watershed manage-
ment program.
Sec. 1123. Ashley Springs land conveyance.
Subtitle C—Wilderness Designations and
Withdrawals
PART I—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 1201. Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks
conservation.
Sec. 1202. Cerro del Yuta and Rı́o San Anto-
nio Wilderness Areas.
Sec. 1203. Methow Valley, Washington, Fed-
eral land withdrawal.
Sec. 1204. Emigrant Crevice withdrawal.
Sec. 1205. Oregon Wildlands.
PART II—EMERY COUNTY PUBLIC LAND
MANAGEMENT
Sec. 1211. Definitions.
Sec. 1212. Administration.
Sec. 1213. Effect on water rights.
Sec. 1214. Savings clause.
SUBPART A—SAN RAFAEL SWELL RECREATION
AREA
Sec. 1221. Establishment of Recreation Area.
Sec. 1222. Management of Recreation Area.
Sec. 1223. San Rafael Swell Recreation Area
Advisory Council.
SUBPART B—WILDERNESS AREAS
Sec. 1231. Additions to the National Wilder-
ness Preservation System.
Sec. 1232. Administration.
Sec. 1233. Fish and wildlife management.
Sec. 1234. Release.
SUBPART C—WILD AND SCENIC RIVER
DESIGNATION
Sec. 1241. Green River wild and scenic river
designation.
SUBPART D—LAND MANAGEMENT AND
CONVEYANCES
Sec. 1251. Goblin Valley State Park.
Sec. 1252. Jurassic National Monument.
Sec. 1253. Public land disposal and acquisi-
tion.
Sec. 1254. Public purpose conveyances.
Sec. 1255. Exchange of BLM and School and
Institutional Trust Lands Ad-
ministration land.
Subtitle D—Wild and Scenic Rivers
Sec. 1301. Lower Farmington River and
Salmon Brook wild and scenic
river.
Sec. 1302. Wood-Pawcatuck watershed wild
and scenic river segments.
Sec. 1303. Nashua wild and scenic rivers,
Massachusetts and New Hamp-
shire.
Subtitle E—California Desert Protection and
Recreation
Sec. 1401. Definitions.
PART I—DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS IN THE
CALIFORNIA DESERT CONSERVATION AREA
Sec. 1411. California desert conservation and
recreation.
PART II—DESIGNATION OF SPECIAL
MANAGEMENT AREA
Sec. 1421. Vinagre Wash Special Manage-
ment Area.
PART III—NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
ADDITIONS
Sec. 1431. Death Valley National Park
boundary revision.
Sec. 1432. Mojave National Preserve.
Sec. 1433. Joshua Tree National Park.
PART IV—OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION
AREAS
Sec. 1441. Off-highway vehicle recreation
areas.
PART V—MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 1451. Transfer of land to Anza-Borrego
Desert State Park.
Sec. 1452. Wildlife corridors.
Sec. 1453. Prohibited uses of acquired, do-
nated, and conservation land.
Sec. 1454. Tribal uses and interests.
Sec. 1455. Release of Federal reversionary
land interests.
Sec. 1456. California State school land.
Sec. 1457. Designation of wild and scenic riv-
ers.
Sec. 1458. Conforming amendments.
Sec. 1459. Juniper Flats.
Sec. 1460. Conforming amendments to Cali-
fornia Military Lands With-
drawal and Overflights Act of
1994.
Sec. 1461. Desert tortoise conservation cen-
ter.
TITLE II—NATIONAL PARKS
Subtitle A—Special Resource Studies
Sec. 2001. Special resource study of James K.
Polk presidential home.
Sec. 2002. Special resource study of
Thurgood Marshall school.
Sec. 2003. Special resource study of Presi-
dent Street Station.
Sec. 2004. Amache special resource study.
Sec. 2005. Special resource study of George
W. Bush Childhood Home.
Subtitle B—National Park System Boundary
Adjustments and Related Matters
Sec. 2101. Shiloh National Military Park
boundary adjustment.
Sec. 2102. Ocmulgee Mounds National His-
torical Park boundary.
Sec. 2103. Kennesaw Mountain National Bat-
tlefield Park boundary.
Sec. 2104. Fort Frederica National Monu-
ment, Georgia.
Sec. 2105. Fort Scott National Historic Site
boundary.
Sec. 2106. Florissant Fossil Beds National
Monument boundary.
Sec. 2107. Voyageurs National Park bound-
ary adjustment.
Sec. 2108. Acadia National Park boundary.
Sec. 2109. Authority of Secretary of the In-
terior to accept certain prop-
erties, Missouri.
Sec. 2110. Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt
National Historic Site.
Subtitle C—National Park System
Redesignations
Sec. 2201. Designation of Saint-Gaudens Na-
tional Historical Park.
Sec. 2202. Redesignation of Robert Emmet
Park.
Sec. 2203. Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie
National Historical Park.
Sec. 2204. Reconstruction Era National His-
torical Park and Reconstruc-
tion Era National Historic Net-
work.
Sec. 2205. Golden Spike National Historical
Park.
Sec. 2206. World War II Pacific sites.
Subtitle D—New Units of the National Park
System
Sec. 2301. Medgar and Myrlie Evers Home
National Monument.
Sec. 2302. Mill Springs Battlefield National
Monument.
Sec. 2303. Camp Nelson Heritage National
Monument.
Subtitle E—National Park System
Management
Sec. 2401. Denali National Park and Pre-
serve natural gas pipeline.
Sec. 2402. Historically Black Colleges and
Universities Historic Preserva-
tion program reauthorized.
Sec. 2403. Authorizing cooperative manage-
ment agreements between the
District of Columbia and the
Secretary of the Interior.
Sec. 2404. Fees for Medical Services.
Sec. 2405. Authority to grant easements and
rights-of-way over Federal
lands within Gateway National
Recreation Area.
Sec. 2406. Adams Memorial Commission.
Sec. 2407. Technical corrections to ref-
erences to the African Amer-
ican Civil Rights Network.
Sec. 2408. Transfer of the James J. Howard
Marine Sciences Laboratory.
Sec. 2409. Bows in parks.
Sec. 2410. Wildlife management in parks.
Sec. 2411. Pottawattamie County rever-
sionary interest.
Sec. 2412. Designation of Dean Stone Bridge.
Subtitle F—National Trails and Related
Matters
Sec. 2501. North Country Scenic Trail Route
adjustment.
Sec. 2502. Extension of Lewis and Clark Na-
tional Historic Trail.
Sec. 2503. American Discovery Trail signage.
Sec. 2504. Pike National Historic Trail
study.
TITLE III—CONSERVATION
AUTHORIZATIONS
Sec. 3001. Reauthorization of Land and
Water Conservation Fund.
Sec. 3002. Conservation incentives land-
owner education program.
TITLE IV—SPORTSMEN’S ACCESS AND
RELATED MATTERS
Subtitle A—National Policy
Sec. 4001. Congressional declaration of na-
tional policy.
Subtitle B—Sportsmen’s Access to Federal
Land
Sec. 4101. Definitions.
Sec. 4102. Federal land open to hunting, fish-
ing, and recreational shooting.
Sec. 4103. Closure of Federal land to hunt-
ing, fishing, and recreational
shooting.
Sec. 4104. Shooting ranges.
Sec. 4105. Identifying opportunities for
recreation, hunting, and fishing
on Federal land.
Subtitle C—Open Book on Equal Access to
Justice
Sec. 4201. Federal action transparency.
Subtitle D—Migratory Bird Framework and
Hunting Opportunities for Veterans
Sec. 4301. Federal closing date for hunting of
ducks, mergansers, and coots.
Subtitle E—Miscellaneous
Sec. 4401. Respect for treaties and rights.
Sec. 4402. No priority.
Sec. 4403. State authority for fish and wild-
life.
TITLE V—HAZARDS AND MAPPING
Sec. 5001. National Volcano Early Warning
and Monitoring System.
Sec. 5002. Reauthorization of National Geo-
logic Mapping Act of 1992.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1033
February 7, 2019
TITLE VI—NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS
Sec. 6001. National Heritage Area designa-
tions.
Sec. 6002. Adjustment of boundaries of Lin-
coln National Heritage Area.
Sec. 6003. Finger Lakes National Heritage
Area study.
Sec. 6004. National Heritage Area amend-
ments.
TITLE VII—WILDLIFE HABITAT AND
CONSERVATION
Sec. 7001. Wildlife habitat and conservation.
Sec. 7002. Reauthorization of Neotropical
Migratory Bird Conservation
Act.
Sec. 7003. John H. Chafee Coastal Barrier
Resources System.
TITLE VIII—WATER AND POWER
Subtitle A—Reclamation Title Transfer
Sec. 8001. Purpose.
Sec. 8002. Definitions.
Sec. 8003. Authorization of transfers of title
to eligible facilities.
Sec. 8004. Eligibility criteria.
Sec. 8005. Liability.
Sec. 8006. Benefits.
Sec. 8007. Compliance with other laws.
Subtitle B—Endangered Fish Recovery
Programs
Sec. 8101. Extension of authorization for an-
nual base funding of fish recov-
ery programs; removal of cer-
tain reporting requirement.
Sec. 8102. Report on recovery implementa-
tion programs.
Subtitle C—Yakima River Basin Water
Enhancement Project
Sec. 8201. Authorization of phase III.
Sec. 8202. Modification of purposes and defi-
nitions.
Sec. 8203. Yakima River Basin Water Con-
servation Program.
Sec. 8204. Yakima Basin water projects, op-
erations, and authorizations.
Subtitle D—Bureau of Reclamation Facility
Conveyances
Sec. 8301. Conveyance of Maintenance Com-
plex and District Office of the
Arbuckle Project, Oklahoma.
Sec. 8302. Contra Costa Canal transfer.
Subtitle E—Project Authorizations
Sec. 8401. Extension of Equus Beds Division
of the Wichita Project.
Subtitle F—Modifications of Existing
Programs
Sec. 8501. Watersmart.
Subtitle G—Bureau of Reclamation
Transparency
Sec. 8601. Definitions.
Sec. 8602. Asset Management Report en-
hancements for reserved works.
Sec. 8603. Asset Management Report en-
hancements for transferred
works.
TITLE IX—MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 9001. Every Kid Outdoors Act.
Sec. 9002. Good Samaritan Search and Re-
covery Act.
Sec. 9003. 21st Century Conservation Service
Corps Act.
Sec. 9004. National Nordic Museum Act.
Sec. 9005. Designation of National George C.
Marshall Museum and Library.
Sec. 9006. 21st Century Respect Act.
Sec. 9007. American World War II Heritage
Cities.
Sec. 9008. Quindaro Townsite National Com-
memorative Site.
Sec. 9009. Designation of National Comedy
Center in Jamestown, New
York.
SEC. 2. DEFINITION OF SECRETARY.
In this Act, the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means
the Secretary of the Interior.
TITLE I—PUBLIC LAND AND FORESTS
Subtitle A—Land Exchanges and
Conveyances
SEC. 1001. CRAGS LAND EXCHANGE, COLORADO.
(a) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this section
are—
(1) to authorize, direct, expedite and facili-
tate the land exchange set forth herein; and
(2) to promote enhanced public outdoor
recreational and natural resource conserva-
tion opportunities in the Pike National For-
est near Pikes Peak, Colorado, via acquisi-
tion of the non-Federal land and trail ease-
ment.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) BHI.—The term ‘‘BHI’’ means
Broadmoor Hotel, Inc., a Colorado corpora-
tion.
(2) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means all right, title, and interest of
the United States in and to approximately 83
acres of land within the Pike National For-
est, El Paso County, Colorado, together with
a nonexclusive perpetual access easement to
BHI to and from such land on Forest Service
Road 371, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Proposed Crags Land Exchange–
Federal Parcel–Emerald Valley Ranch’’ and
dated March 2015.
(3) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal land’’ means the land and trail ease-
ment to be conveyed to the Secretary by BHI
in the exchange and is—
(A) approximately 320 acres of land within
the Pike National Forest, Teller County,
Colorado, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Proposed Crags Land Exchange–
Non-Federal Parcel–Crags Property’’ and
dated March 2015; and
(B) a permanent trail easement for the
Barr Trail in El Paso County, Colorado, as
generally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Pro-
posed Crags Land Exchange–Barr Trail Ease-
ment to United States’’ and dated March
2015, and which shall be considered as a vol-
untary donation to the United States by BHI
for all purposes of law.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, unless
otherwise specified.
(c) LAND EXCHANGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If BHI offers to convey to
the Secretary all right, title, and interest of
BHI in and to the non-Federal land, the Sec-
retary shall accept the offer and simulta-
neously convey to BHI the Federal land.
(2) LAND TITLE.—Title to the non-Federal
land conveyed and donated to the Secretary
under this section shall be acceptable to the
Secretary and shall conform to the title ap-
proval standards of the Attorney General of
the United States applicable to land acquisi-
tions by the Federal Government.
(3) PERPETUAL ACCESS EASEMENT TO BHI.—
The nonexclusive perpetual access easement
to be granted to BHI as shown on the map re-
ferred to in subsection (b)(2) shall allow—
(A) BHI to fully maintain, at BHI’s ex-
pense, and use Forest Service Road 371 from
its junction with Forest Service Road 368 in
accordance with historic use and mainte-
nance patterns by BHI; and
(B) full and continued public and adminis-
trative access and use of Forest Service Road
371 in accordance with the existing Forest
Service travel management plan, or as such
plan may be revised by the Secretary.
(4) ROUTE AND CONDITION OF ROAD.—BHI and
the Secretary may mutually agree to im-
prove, relocate, reconstruct, or otherwise
alter the route and condition of all or por-
tions of such road as the Secretary, in close
consultation with BHI, may determine advis-
able.
(5) EXCHANGE COSTS.—BHI shall pay for all
land survey, appraisal, and other costs to the
Secretary as may be necessary to process
and consummate the exchange directed by
this section, including reimbursement to the
Secretary, if the Secretary so requests, for
staff time spent in such processing and con-
summation.
(d) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE AND APPRAIS-
ALS.—
(1) APPRAISALS.—The values of the lands to
be exchanged under this section shall be de-
termined by the Secretary through apprais-
als performed—
(A) in accordance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions;
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice; and
(iii) appraisal instructions issued by the
Secretary; and
(B) by an appraiser mutually agreed to by
the Secretary and BHI.
(2) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE.—The values of
the Federal land and non-Federal land par-
cels exchanged shall be equal, or if they are
not equal, shall be equalized as follows:
(A) SURPLUS OF FEDERAL LAND VALUE.—If
the final appraised value of the Federal land
exceeds the final appraised value of the non-
Federal land parcel identified in subsection
(b)(3)(A), BHI shall make a cash equalization
payment to the United States as necessary
to achieve equal value, including, if nec-
essary, an amount in excess of that author-
ized pursuant to section 206(b) of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of l976 (43
U.S.C. 1716(b)).
(B) USE OF FUNDS.—Any cash equalization
moneys received by the Secretary under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be—
(i) deposited in the fund established under
Public Law 90–171 (commonly known as the
‘‘Sisk Act’’; 16 U.S.C. 484a); and
(ii) made available to the Secretary for the
acquisition of land or interests in land in Re-
gion 2 of the Forest Service.
(C) SURPLUS OF NON-FEDERAL LAND
VALUE.—If the final appraised value of the
non-Federal land parcel identified in sub-
section (b)(3)(A) exceeds the final appraised
value of the Federal land, the United States
shall not make a cash equalization payment
to BHI, and surplus value of the non-Federal
land shall be considered a donation by BHI
to the United States for all purposes of law.
(3) APPRAISAL EXCLUSIONS.—
(A) SPECIAL USE PERMIT.—The appraised
value of the Federal land parcel shall not re-
flect any increase or diminution in value due
to the special use permit existing on the date
of enactment of this Act to BHI on the par-
cel and improvements thereunder.
(B) BARR TRAIL EASEMENT.—The Barr Trail
easement donation identified in subsection
(b)(3)(B) shall not be appraised for purposes
of this section.
(e) MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.—
(1) WITHDRAWAL PROVISIONS.—
(A) WITHDRAWAL.—Lands acquired by the
Secretary under this section shall, without
further action by the Secretary, be perma-
nently withdrawn from all forms of appro-
priation and disposal under the public land
laws (including the mining and mineral leas-
ing laws) and the Geothermal Steam Act of
1930 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
(B) WITHDRAWAL REVOCATION.—Any public
land order that withdraws the Federal land
from appropriation or disposal under a public
land law shall be revoked to the extent nec-
essary to permit disposal of the Federal land
parcel to BHI.
(C) WITHDRAWAL OF FEDERAL LAND.—All
Federal land authorized to be exchanged
under this section, if not already withdrawn
or segregated from appropriation or disposal
under the public lands laws upon enactment
of this Act, is hereby so withdrawn, subject
to valid existing rights, until the date of
conveyance of the Federal land to BHI.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1034 February 7, 2019
(2) POSTEXCHANGE LAND MANAGEMENT.—
Land acquired by the Secretary under this
section shall become part of the Pike-San
Isabel National Forest and be managed in ac-
cordance with the laws, rules, and regula-
tions applicable to the National Forest Sys-
tem.
(3) EXCHANGE TIMETABLE.—It is the intent
of Congress that the land exchange directed
by this section be consummated no later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this Act.
(4) MAPS, ESTIMATES, AND DESCRIPTIONS.—
(A) MINOR ERRORS.—The Secretary and BHI
may by mutual agreement make minor
boundary adjustments to the Federal and
non-Federal lands involved in the exchange,
and may correct any minor errors in any
map, acreage estimate, or description of any
land to be exchanged.
(B) CONFLICT.—If there is a conflict be-
tween a map, an acreage estimate, or a de-
scription of land under this section, the map
shall control unless the Secretary and BHI
mutually agree otherwise.
(C) AVAILABILITY.—Upon enactment of this
Act, the Secretary shall file and make avail-
able for public inspection in the head-
quarters of the Pike-San Isabel National
Forest a copy of all maps referred to in this
section.
SEC. 1002. ARAPAHO NATIONAL FOREST BOUND-
ARY ADJUSTMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of the
Arapaho National Forest in the State of Col-
orado is adjusted to incorporate the approxi-
mately 92.95 acres of land generally depicted
as ‘‘The Wedge’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Arap-
aho National Forest Boundary Adjustment’’
and dated November 6, 2013, and described as
lots three, four, eight, and nine of section 13,
Township 4 North, Range 76 West, Sixth
Principal Meridian, Colorado. A lot described
in this subsection may be included in the
boundary adjustment only after the Sec-
retary of Agriculture obtains written per-
mission for such action from the lot owner
or owners.
(b) BOWEN GULCH PROTECTION AREA.—The
Secretary of Agriculture shall include all
Federal land within the boundary described
in subsection (a) in the Bowen Gulch Protec-
tion Area established under section 6 of the
Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C.
539j).
(c) LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION FUND.—
For purposes of section 200306(a)(2)(B)(i) of
title 54, United States Code, the boundaries
of the Arapaho National Forest, as modified
under subsection (a), shall be considered to
be the boundaries of the Arapaho National
Forest as in existence on January 1, 1965.
(d) PUBLIC MOTORIZED USE.—Nothing in
this section opens privately owned lands
within the boundary described in subsection
(a) to public motorized use.
(e) ACCESS TO NON-FEDERAL LANDS.—Not-
withstanding the provisions of section 6(f) of
the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 539j(f)) regarding motorized travel,
the owners of any non-Federal lands within
the boundary described in subsection (a) who
historically have accessed their lands
through lands now or hereafter owned by the
United States within the boundary described
in subsection (a) shall have the continued
right of motorized access to their lands
across the existing roadway.
SEC. 1003. SANTA ANA RIVER WASH PLAN LAND
EXCHANGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CONSERVATION DISTRICT.—The term
‘‘Conservation District’’ means the San
Bernardino Valley Water Conservation Dis-
trict, a political subdivision of the State of
California.
(2) FEDERAL EXCHANGE PARCEL.—The term
‘‘Federal exchange parcel’’ means the ap-
proximately 90 acres of Federal land admin-
istered by the Bureau of Land Management
generally depicted as ‘‘BLM Equalization
Land to SBVWCD’’ on the Map and is to be
conveyed to the Conservation District if nec-
essary to equalize the fair market values of
the lands otherwise to be exchanged.
(3) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means the approximately 327 acres of
Federal land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management generally depicted as
‘‘BLM Land to SBVWCD’’ on the Map.
(4) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Santa Ana River Wash Land Ex-
change’’ and dated September 3, 2015.
(5) NON-FEDERAL EXCHANGE PARCEL.—The
term ‘‘non-Federal exchange parcel’’ means
the approximately 59 acres of land owned by
the Conservation District generally depicted
as ‘‘SBVWCD Equalization Land’’ on the
Map and is to be conveyed to the United
States if necessary to equalize the fair mar-
ket values of the lands otherwise to be ex-
changed.
(6) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal Land’’ means the approximately 310
acres of land owned by the Conservation Dis-
trict generally depicted as ‘‘SBVWCD to
BLM’’ on the Map.
(b) EXCHANGE OF LAND; EQUALIZATION OF
VALUE.—
(1) EXCHANGE AUTHORIZED.—Notwith-
standing the land use planning requirements
of sections 202, 210, and 211 of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1712, 1720, 1721), subject to valid exist-
ing rights, and conditioned upon any equali-
zation payment necessary under section
206(b) of the Federal Land Policy and Man-
agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)), and
paragraph (2), as soon as practicable, but not
later than 2 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, if the Conservation Dis-
trict offers to convey the exchange land to
the United States, the Secretary shall—
(A) convey to the Conservation District all
right, title, and interest of the United States
in and to the Federal land, and any such por-
tion of the Federal exchange parcel as may
be required to equalize the values of the
lands exchanged; and
(B) accept from the Conservation District a
conveyance of all right, title, and interest of
the Conservation District in and to the non-
Federal land, and any such portion of the
non-Federal exchange parcel as may be re-
quired to equalize the values of the lands ex-
changed.
(2) EQUALIZATION PAYMENT.—To the extent
an equalization payment is necessary under
section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)),
the amount of such equalization payment
shall first be made by way of in-kind transfer
of such portion of the Federal exchange par-
cel to the Conservation District, or transfer
of such portion of the non-Federal exchange
parcel to the United States, as the case may
be, as may be necessary to equalize the fair
market values of the exchanged properties.
The fair market value of the Federal ex-
change parcel or non-Federal exchange par-
cel, as the case may be, shall be credited
against any required equalization payment.
To the extent such credit is not sufficient to
offset the entire amount of equalization pay-
ment so indicated, any remaining amount of
equalization payment shall be treated as fol-
lows:
(A) If the equalization payment is to equal-
ize values by which the Federal land exceeds
the non-Federal land and the credited value
of the non-Federal exchange parcel, Con-
servation District may make the equali-
zation payment to the United States, not-
withstanding any limitation regarding the
amount of the equalization payment under
section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)). In
the event Conservation District opts not to
make the indicated equalization payment,
the exchange shall not proceed.
(B) If the equalization payment is to equal-
ize values by which the non-Federal land ex-
ceeds the Federal land and the credited value
of the Federal exchange parcel, the Sec-
retary shall order the exchange without re-
quirement of any additional equalization
payment by the United States to the Con-
servation District.
(3) APPRAISALS.—
(A) The value of the land to be exchanged
under this section shall be determined by ap-
praisals conducted by one or more inde-
pendent and qualified appraisers.
(B) The appraisals shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with nationally recognized ap-
praisal standards, including, as appropriate,
the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal
Land Acquisitions and the Uniform Stand-
ards of Professional Appraisal Practice.
(4) TITLE APPROVAL.—Title to the land to
be exchanged under this section shall be in a
format acceptable to the Secretary and the
Conservation District.
(5) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—As soon
as practicable after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall finalize a map
and legal descriptions of all land to be con-
veyed under this section. The Secretary may
correct any minor errors in the map or in
the legal descriptions. The map and legal de-
scriptions shall be on file and available for
public inspection in appropriate offices of
the Bureau of Land Management.
(6) COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—As a condition
of conveyance, any costs related to the con-
veyance under this section shall be paid by
the Conservation District.
(c) APPLICABLE LAW.—
(1) ACT OF FEBRUARY 20, 1909.—
(A) The Act of February 20, 1909 (35 Stat.
641), shall not apply to the Federal land and
any public exchange land transferred under
this section.
(B) The exchange of lands under this sec-
tion shall be subject to continuing rights of
the Conservation District under the Act of
February 20, 1909 (35 Stat. 641), on the non-
Federal land and any exchanged portion of
the non-Federal exchange parcel for the con-
tinued use, maintenance, operation, con-
struction, or relocation of, or expansion of,
groundwater recharge facilities on the non-
Federal land, to accommodate groundwater
recharge of the Bunker Hill Basin to the ex-
tent that such activities are not in conflict
with any Habitat Conservation Plan or Habi-
tat Management Plan under which such non-
Federal land or non-Federal exchange parcel
may be held or managed.
(2) FLPMA.—Except as otherwise provided
in this section, the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et
seq.), shall apply to the exchange of land
under this section.
(d) CANCELLATION OF SECRETARIAL ORDER
241.—Secretarial Order 241, dated November
11, 1929 (withdrawing a portion of the Federal
land for an unconstructed transmission line),
is terminated and the withdrawal thereby ef-
fected is revoked.
SEC. 1004. UDALL PARK LAND EXCHANGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CITY.—The term ‘‘City’’ means the city
of Tucson, Arizona.
(2) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal land’’ means the approximately
172.8-acre parcel of City land identified in
the patent numbered 02–90–0001 and dated Oc-
tober 4, 1989, and more particularly described
as lots 3 and 4, S1⁄2NW1⁄4, sec. 5, T.14 S., R.15
E., Gila and Salt River Meridian, Arizona.
(b) CONVEYANCE OF FEDERAL REVERSIONARY
INTEREST IN LAND LOCATED IN TUCSON, ARI-
ZONA.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1035
February 7, 2019
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the Secretary shall
convey to the City, without consideration,
the reversionary interests of the United
States in and to the non-Federal land for the
purpose of unencumbering the title to the
non-Federal land to enable economic devel-
opment of the non-Federal land.
(2) LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—As soon as prac-
ticable after the date of enactment of this
Act, the exact legal descriptions of the non-
Federal land shall be determined in a man-
ner satisfactory to the Secretary.
(3) ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—
The Secretary may require such additional
terms and conditions to the conveyance
under paragraph (1), consistent with that
paragraph, as the Secretary considers appro-
priate to protect the interests of the United
States.
(4) COSTS.—The City shall pay all costs as-
sociated with the conveyance under para-
graph (1), consistent with that paragraph, in-
cluding the costs of any surveys, recording
costs, and other reasonable costs.
SEC. 1005. CONFIRMATION OF STATE LAND
GRANTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the State of Utah may select any
lands in T. 6 S. and T. 7 S., R. 1 W., Salt Lake
Base and Meridian, that are owned by the
United States, under the administrative ju-
risdiction of the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, and identified as available for disposal
by land exchange in the Record of Decision
for the Pony Express Resource Management
Plan and Rangeland Program Summary for
Utah County (January 1990), as amended by
the Pony Express Plan Amendment (Novem-
ber 1997), in fulfillment of the land grants
made in sections 6, 8, and 12 of the Act of
July 16, 1894 (28 Stat. 107) as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Proposed Utah
County Quantity Grants’’ and dated June 27,
2017, to further the purposes of the State of
Utah School and Institutional Trust Lands
Administration, without further land use
planning action by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
(b) APPLICATION.—The criteria listed in De-
cision 3 of the Lands Program of the re-
source management plan described in sub-
section (a) shall not apply to any land se-
lected under that subsection.
(c) EFFECT ON LIMITATION.—Nothing in this
section affects the limitation established
under section 2815(d) of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (Pub-
lic Law 106–65).
SEC. 1006. CUSTER COUNTY AIRPORT CONVEY-
ANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Custer County, South Dakota.
(2) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means all right, title, and interest of
the United States in and to approximately
65.7 acres of National Forest System land, as
generally depicted on the map.
(3) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Custer County Airport Convey-
ance’’ and dated October 19, 2017.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service.
(b) LAND CONVEYANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the terms and
conditions described in paragraph (2), if the
County submits to the Secretary an offer to
acquire the Federal land for the market
value, as determined by the appraisal under
paragraph (3), the Secretary shall convey the
Federal land to the County.
(2) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—The convey-
ance under paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) subject to valid existing rights;
(B) made by quitclaim deed; and
(C) subject to any other terms and condi-
tions as the Secretary considers appropriate
to protect the interests of the United States.
(3) APPRAISAL.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall complete an appraisal to de-
termine the market value of the Federal
land.
(B) STANDARDS.—The appraisal under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be conducted in accord-
ance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(4) MAP.—
(A) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be kept on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate office of the For-
est Service.
(B) CORRECTION OF ERRORS.—The Secretary
may correct any errors in the map.
(5) CONSIDERATION.—As consideration for
the conveyance under paragraph (1), the
County shall pay to the Secretary an
amount equal to the market value of the
Federal land, as determined by the appraisal
under paragraph (3).
(6) SURVEY.—The exact acreage and legal
description of the Federal land to be con-
veyed under paragraph (1) shall be deter-
mined by a survey satisfactory to the Sec-
retary.
(7) COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—As a condition
on the conveyance under paragraph (1), the
County shall pay to the Secretary all costs
associated with the conveyance, including
the cost of—
(A) the appraisal under paragraph (3); and
(B) the survey under paragraph (6).
(8) PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF LAND.—Any
proceeds received by the Secretary from the
conveyance under paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) deposited in the fund established under
Public Law 90–171 (commonly known as the
‘‘Sisk Act’’) (16 U.S.C. 484a); and
(B) available to the Secretary until ex-
pended, without further appropriation, for
the acquisition of inholdings in units of the
National Forest System in the State of
South Dakota.
SEC. 1007. PASCUA YAQUI TRIBE LAND CONVEY-
ANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘District’’ means
the Tucson Unified School District No. 1, a
school district recognized as such under the
laws of the State of Arizona.
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘ ‘Pascua Yaqui Tribe Land Convey-
ance Act’’, dated March 14, 2016, and on file
and available for public inspection in the
local office of the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment.
(3) RECREATION AND PUBLIC PURPOSES ACT.—
The term ‘‘Recreation and Public Purposes
Act’’ means the Act of June 14, 1926 (43
U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(4) TRIBE.—The term ‘‘Tribe’’ means the
Pascua Yaqui Tribe of Arizona, a federally
recognized Indian Tribe.
(b) LAND TO BE HELD IN TRUST.—
(1) PARCEL A.—Subject to paragraph (2) and
to valid existing rights, all right, title, and
interest of the United States in and to the
approximately 39.65 acres of Federal lands
generally depicted on the map as ‘‘Parcel A’’
are declared to be held in trust by the United
States for the benefit of the Tribe.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—Paragraph (1) shall
take effect on the day after the date on
which the District relinquishes all right,
title, and interest of the District in and to
the approximately 39.65 acres of land de-
scribed in paragraph (1).
(c) LANDS TO BE CONVEYED TO THE DIS-
TRICT.—
(1) PARCEL B.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights and payment to the United States of
the fair market value, the United States
shall convey to the District all right, title,
and interest of the United States in and to
the approximately 13.24 acres of Federal
lands generally depicted on the map as ‘‘Par-
cel B’’.
(B) DETERMINATION OF FAIR MARKET
VALUE.—The fair market value of the prop-
erty to be conveyed under subparagraph (A)
shall be determined by the Secretary in ac-
cordance with the Uniform Appraisal Stand-
ards for Federal Land Acquisitions and the
Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal
Practice.
(C) COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—As a condition
of the conveyance under this paragraph, all
costs associated with the conveyance shall
be paid by the District.
(2) PARCEL C.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If, not later than 1 year
after the completion of the appraisal re-
quired by subparagraph (C), the District sub-
mits to the Secretary an offer to acquire the
Federal reversionary interest in all of the
approximately 27.5 acres of land conveyed to
the District under Recreation and Public
Purposes Act and generally depicted on the
map as ‘‘Parcel C’’, the Secretary shall con-
vey to the District such reversionary inter-
est in the lands covered by the offer. The
Secretary shall complete the conveyance not
later than 30 days after the date of the offer.
(B) SURVEY.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall complete a survey of the lands
described in this paragraph to determine the
precise boundaries and acreage of the lands
subject to the Federal reversionary interest.
(C) APPRAISAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall complete an appraisal of the
Federal reversionary interest in the lands
identified by the survey required by subpara-
graph (B). The appraisal shall be completed
in accordance with the Uniform Appraisal
Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions and
the Uniform Standards of Professional Ap-
praisal Practice.
(D) CONSIDERATION.—As consideration for
the conveyance of the Federal reversionary
interest under this paragraph, the District
shall pay to the Secretary an amount equal
to the appraised value of the Federal inter-
est, as determined under subparagraph (C).
The consideration shall be paid not later
than 30 days after the date of the convey-
ance.
(E) COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—As a condition
of the conveyance under this paragraph, all
costs associated with the conveyance, in-
cluding the cost of the survey required by
subparagraph (B) and the appraisal required
by subparagraph (C), shall be paid by the
District.
(d) GAMING PROHIBITION.—The Tribe may
not conduct gaming activities on lands
taken into trust pursuant to this section, ei-
ther as a matter of claimed inherent author-
ity, under the authority of any Federal law,
including the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act
(25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.), or under regulations
promulgated by the Secretary or the Na-
tional Indian Gaming Commission.
(e) WATER RIGHTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There shall be no Federal
reserved right to surface water or ground-
water for any land taken into trust by the
United States for the benefit of the Tribe
under this section.
(2) STATE WATER RIGHTS.—The Tribe re-
tains any right or claim to water under
State law for any land taken into trust by
the United States for the benefit of the Tribe
under this section.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1036 February 7, 2019
(3) FORFEITURE OR ABANDONMENT.—Any
water rights that are appurtenant to land
taken into trust by the United States for the
benefit of the Tribe under this section may
not be forfeited or abandoned.
(4) ADMINISTRATION.—Nothing in this sec-
tion affects or modifies any right of the
Tribe or any obligation of the United States
under Public Law 95–375.
SEC. 1008. LA PAZ COUNTY LAND CONVEYANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means La
Paz County, Arizona.
(2) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means the approximately 5,935 acres of
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement and designated as ‘‘Federal land to
be conveyed’’ on the map.
(3) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
prepared by the Bureau of Land Management
entitled ‘‘Proposed La Paz County Land Con-
veyance’’ and dated October 1, 2018.
(b) CONVEYANCE TO LA PAZ COUNTY, ARI-
ZONA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the plan-
ning requirement of sections 202 and 203 of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713) and in ac-
cordance with this section and other applica-
ble law, as soon as practicable after receiv-
ing a request from the County to convey the
Federal land, the Secretary shall convey the
Federal land to the County.
(2) RESTRICTIONS ON CONVEYANCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The conveyance under
paragraph (1) shall be subject to—
(i) valid existing rights; and
(ii) such terms and conditions as the Sec-
retary determines to be necessary.
(B) EXCLUSION.—The Secretary shall ex-
clude from the conveyance under paragraph
(1) any Federal land that contains signifi-
cant cultural, environmental, wildlife, or
recreational resources.
(3) PAYMENT OF FAIR MARKET VALUE.—The
conveyance under paragraph (1) shall be for
the fair market value of the Federal land to
be conveyed, as determined—
(A) in accordance with the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
(B) based on an appraisal that is conducted
in accordance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(4) PROTECTION OF TRIBAL CULTURAL ARTI-
FACTS.—As a condition of the conveyance
under paragraph (1), the County shall, and as
a condition of any subsequent conveyance,
any subsequent owner shall—
(A) make good faith efforts to avoid dis-
turbing Tribal artifacts;
(B) minimize impacts on Tribal artifacts if
they are disturbed;
(C) coordinate with the Colorado River In-
dian Tribes Tribal Historic Preservation Of-
fice to identify artifacts of cultural and his-
toric significance; and
(D) allow Tribal representatives to rebury
unearthed artifacts at or near where they
were discovered.
(5) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The map shall be on file
and available for public inspection in the ap-
propriate offices of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
(B) CORRECTIONS.—The Secretary and the
County may, by mutual agreement—
(i) make minor boundary adjustments to
the Federal land to be conveyed under para-
graph (1); and
(ii) correct any minor errors in the map, an
acreage estimate, or the description of the
Federal land.
(6) WITHDRAWAL.—The Federal land is
withdrawn from the operation of the mining
and mineral leasing laws of the United
States.
(7) COSTS.—As a condition of the convey-
ance of the Federal land under paragraph (1),
the County shall pay—
(A) an amount equal to the appraised value
determined in accordance with paragraph
(3)(B); and
(B) all costs related to the conveyance, in-
cluding all surveys, appraisals, and other ad-
ministrative costs associated with the con-
veyance of the Federal land to the County
under paragraph (1).
(8) PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF LAND.—The
proceeds from the sale of land under this
subsection shall be—
(A) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal
Account established by section 206(a) of the
Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act
(43 U.S.C. 2305(a)); and
(B) used in accordance with that Act (43
U.S.C. 2301 et seq.).
SEC. 1009. LAKE BISTINEAU LAND TITLE STA-
BILITY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CLAIMANT.—The term ‘‘claimant’’
means any individual, group, or corporation
authorized to hold title to land or mineral
interests in land in the State of Louisiana
with a valid claim to the omitted land, in-
cluding any mineral interests.
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Lands as Delineated by Original
Survey December 18, 1842 showing the 1969
Meander Line at the 148.6 Elevation Line’’
and dated January 30, 2018.
(3) OMITTED LAND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘omitted land’’
means the land in lots 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and
13 of sec. 30, T. 16 N., R. 10 W., Louisiana Me-
ridian, comprising a total of approximately
229.72 acres, as depicted on the Map, that—
(i) was in place during the Original Survey;
but
(ii) was not included in the Original Sur-
vey.
(B) INCLUSION.—The term ‘‘omitted land’’
includes—
(i) Peggy’s Island in lot 1 of sec. 17, T. 16
N., R. 10 W., Louisiana Meridian; and
(ii) Hog Island in lot 1 of sec. 29, T. 16 N.,
R. 10 W., Louisiana Meridian.
(4) ORIGINAL SURVEY.—The term ‘‘Original
Survey’’ means the survey of land sur-
rounding Lake Bistineau, Louisiana, con-
ducted by the General Land Office in 1838
and approved by the Surveyor General on
December 8, 1842.
(b) CONVEYANCES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Consistent with the first
section of the Act of December 22, 1928 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Color of Title Act’’) (45
Stat. 1069, chapter 47; 43 U.S.C. 1068), except
as provided by this section, the Secretary
shall convey to the claimant the omitted
land, including any mineral interests, that
has been held in good faith and in peaceful,
adverse possession by a claimant or an an-
cestor or grantor of the claimant, under
claim or color of title, based on the Original
Survey.
(2) CONFIRMATION OF TITLE.—The convey-
ance or patent of omitted land to a claimant
under paragraph (1) shall have the effect of
confirming title to the surface and minerals
in the claimant and shall not serve as any
admission by a claimant.
(c) PAYMENT OF COSTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the conveyance required under
subsection (b) shall be without consider-
ation.
(2) CONDITION.—As a condition of the con-
veyance of the omitted land under sub-
section (b), before making the conveyance,
the Secretary shall recover from the State of
Louisiana any costs incurred by the Sec-
retary relating to any survey, platting, legal
description, or associated activities required
to prepare and issue a patent under that sub-
section.
(d) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—As soon
as practicable after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall file, and make
available for public inspection in the appro-
priate offices of the Bureau of Land and
Management, the Map and legal descriptions
of the omitted land to be conveyed under
subsection (b).
SEC. 1010. LAKE FANNIN LAND CONVEYANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Fannin County, Texas.
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Lake Fannin Conveyance’’ and
dated November 21, 2013.
(3) NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM LAND.—The
term ‘‘National Forest System land’’ means
the approximately 2,025 acres of National
Forest System land generally depicted on
the map.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service.
(b) LAND CONVEYANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the terms and
conditions described in paragraph (2), if the
County submits to the Secretary an offer to
acquire the National Forest System land for
the fair market value, as determined by the
appraisal under paragraph (3), the Secretary
shall convey the National Forest System
land to the County.
(2) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—The convey-
ance under paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) subject to valid existing rights;
(B) made by quitclaim deed; and
(C) subject to any other terms and condi-
tions as the Secretary considers appropriate
to protect the interests of the United States.
(3) APPRAISAL.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall complete an appraisal to de-
termine the fair market value of the Na-
tional Forest System land.
(B) STANDARDS.—The appraisal under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be conducted in accord-
ance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(4) MAP.—
(A) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be kept on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate office of the For-
est Service.
(B) CORRECTION OF ERRORS.—The Secretary
may correct minor errors in the map.
(5) CONSIDERATION.—As consideration for
the conveyance under paragraph (1), the
County shall pay to the Secretary an
amount equal to the fair market value of the
National Forest System land, as determined
by the appraisal under paragraph (3).
(6) SURVEY.—The exact acreage and legal
description of the National Forest System
land to be conveyed under paragraph (1) shall
be determined by a survey satisfactory to
the Secretary and the County.
(7) USE.—As a condition of the conveyance
under paragraph (1), the County shall agree
to manage the land conveyed under that sub-
section for public recreational purposes.
(8) COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—As a condition
on the conveyance under paragraph (1), the
County shall pay to the Secretary all costs
associated with the conveyance, including
the cost of—
(A) the appraisal under paragraph (3); and
(B) the survey under paragraph (6).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1037
February 7, 2019
SEC. 1011. LAND CONVEYANCE AND UTILITY
RIGHT-OF-WAY, HENRY’S LAKE WIL-
DERNESS STUDY AREA, IDAHO.
(a) CONVEYANCE AND RIGHT-OF-WAY AU-
THORIZED.—Notwithstanding section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the Secretary
may—
(1) convey to the owner of a private resi-
dence located at 3787 Valhalla Road in Island
Park, Idaho (in this section referred to as
the ‘‘owner’’), all right, title, and interest of
the United States in and to the approxi-
mately 0.5 acres of Federal land in the
Henry’s Lake Wilderness Study Area de-
scribed as lot 14, section 33, Township 16
North, Range 43 East, Boise Meridian, Fre-
mont County, Idaho; and
(2) grant Fall River Electric in Ashton,
Idaho, the right to operate, maintain, and re-
habilitate a right-of-way encumbering ap-
proximately 0.4 acres of Federal land in the
Henry’s Lake Wilderness Study Area de-
scribed as lot 15, section 33, Township 16
North, Range 43 East, Boise Meridian, Fre-
mont County, Idaho, which includes an elec-
tric distribution line and access road, 850′ in
length, 20′ in width.
(b) CONSIDERATION; CONDITIONS.—
(1) LAND DISPOSAL.—The Secretary shall
convey the land under subsection (a)(1) in ac-
cordance with section 203 of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1713) and part 2711.3–3 of title 43, Code
of Federal Regulations. As consideration for
the conveyance the owner shall pay to the
Secretary an amount equal to the fair mar-
ket value as valued by a qualified land ap-
praisal and approved by the Appraisal and
Valuation Services Office.
(2) RIGHT-OF-WAY.—The Secretary shall
grant the right-of-way granted under sub-
section (a)(2) in accordance with section 205
of the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1715), and part 2800 of
title 43, Code of Federal Regulations.
(c) ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—
The Secretary may require such additional
terms and conditions in connection with the
conveyance of the land and the grant of the
right-of-way under this section as the Sec-
retary considers appropriate to protect the
interests of the United States.
SEC. 1012. CONVEYANCE TO UKPEAGVIK INUPIAT
CORPORATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, sub-
ject to valid existing rights, the Secretary
shall convey to the Ukpeagvik Inupiat Cor-
poration all right, title, and interest held by
the United States in and to sand and gravel
deposits underlying the surface estate owned
by the Ukpeagvik Inupiat Corporation with-
in and contiguous to the Barrow gas fields,
and more particularly described as follows:
(1) T. 21 N. R. 16 W., secs. 7, 17–18, 19–21, and
28–29, of the Umiat Meridian.
(2) T. 21 N. R. 17 W., secs. 1–2 and 11–14, of
the Umiat Meridian.
(3) T. 22 N. R. 18 W., secs. 4, 9, and 29–32, of
the Umiat Meridian.
(4) T. 22 N. R. 19 W., secs. 25 and 36, of the
Umiat Meridian.
(b) ENTITLEMENT FULFILLED.—The convey-
ance under this section shall fulfill the enti-
tlement granted to the Ukpeagvik Inupiat
Corporation under section 12(a) of the Alaska
Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C.
1611(a)).
(c) COMPLIANCE WITH ENDANGERED SPECIES
ACT OF 1973.—Nothing in this section affects
any requirement, prohibition, or exception
under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
SEC. 1013. PUBLIC PURPOSE CONVEYANCE TO
CITY OF HYDE PARK, UTAH.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the land
use planning requirement of sections 202 and
203 of the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on
written request by the City of Hyde Park,
Utah (referred to in this section as the
‘‘City’’), the Secretary shall convey, without
consideration, to the City the parcel of pub-
lic land described in subsection (b)(1) for
public recreation or other public purposes
consistent with uses allowed under the Act
of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the
‘‘Recreation and Public Purposes Act’’) (43
U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(b) DESCRIPTION OF LAND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The parcel of public land
referred to in subsection (a) is the approxi-
mately 80-acre parcel identified on the map
entitled ‘‘Hyde Park Land Conveyance Act’’
and dated October 23, 2017.
(2) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map re-
ferred to in paragraph (1) shall be on file and
available for public inspection in appropriate
offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
(c) SURVEY.—The exact acreage and legal
description of the land to be conveyed under
this section shall be determined by a survey
satisfactory to the Secretary.
(d) CONVEYANCE COSTS.—As a condition for
the conveyance under this section, all costs
associated with the conveyance shall be paid
by the City.
SEC. 1014. JUAB COUNTY CONVEYANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Juab County, Utah.
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service.
(3) NEPHI WORK CENTER CONVEYANCE PAR-
CEL.—The term ‘‘Nephi Work Center convey-
ance parcel’’ means the parcel of approxi-
mately 2.17 acres of National Forest System
land in the County, located at 740 South
Main Street, Nephi, Utah, as depicted as Tax
Lot Numbers #XA00–0545–1111 and #XA00–
0545–2 on the map entitled ‘‘Nephi Plat B’’
and dated May 6, 1981.
(b) CONVEYANCE OF NEPHI WORK CENTER
CONVEYANCE PARCEL, JUAB COUNTY, UTAH.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date on which the Secretary receives a
request from the County and subject to valid
existing rights and such terms and condi-
tions as are mutually satisfactory to the
Secretary and the County, including such ad-
ditional terms as the Secretary determines
to be necessary, the Secretary shall convey
to the County without consideration all
right, title, and interest of the United States
in and to the Nephi Work Center conveyance
parcel.
(2) COSTS.—Any costs relating to the con-
veyance under paragraph (1), including proc-
essing and transaction costs, shall be paid by
the County.
(3) USE OF LAND.—The land conveyed to the
County under paragraph (1) shall be used by
the County—
(A) to house fire suppression and fuels
mitigation personnel;
(B) to facilitate fire suppression and fuels
mitigation activities; and
(C) for infrastructure and equipment nec-
essary to carry out subparagraphs (A) and
(B).
SEC. 1015. BLACK MOUNTAIN RANGE AND BULL-
HEAD CITY LAND EXCHANGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CITY.—The term ‘‘City’’ means Bullhead
City, Arizona.
(2) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal Land’’ means the approximately
1,100 acres of land owned by Bullhead City in
the Black Mountain Range generally de-
picted as ‘‘Bullhead City Land to be Ex-
changed to BLM’’ on the Map.
(3) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Bullhead City Land Exchange’’ and
dated August 24, 2018.
(4) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means the approximately 345.2 acres of
land in Bullhead City, Arizona, generally de-
picted as ‘‘Federal Land to be exchanged to
Bullhead City’’ on the Map.
(b) LAND EXCHANGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If after December 15, 2020,
the City offers to convey to the Secretary all
right, title, and interest of the City in and to
the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall ac-
cept the offer and simultaneously convey to
the City all right, title, and interest of the
United States in and to the Federal land.
(2) LAND TITLE.—Title to the non-Federal
land conveyed to the Secretary under this
section shall be in a form acceptable to the
Secretary and shall conform to the title ap-
proval standards of the Attorney General of
the United States applicable to land acquisi-
tions by the Federal Government.
(3) EXCHANGE COSTS.—The City shall pay
for all land survey, appraisal, and other costs
to the Secretary as may be necessary to
process and consummate the exchange under
this section.
(c) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE AND APPRAIS-
ALS.—
(1) APPRAISALS.—The values of the lands to
be exchanged under this section shall be de-
termined by the Secretary through apprais-
als performed—
(A) in accordance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions;
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice; and
(iii) appraisal instructions issued by the
Secretary; and
(B) by an appraiser mutually agreed to by
the Secretary and the City.
(2) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE.—The values of
the Federal and non-Federal land parcels ex-
changed shall be equal, or if they are not
equal, shall be equalized as follows:
(A) SURPLUS OF FEDERAL LAND VALUE.—If
the final appraised value of the Federal land
exceeds the final appraised value of the non-
Federal land, the City shall reduce the
amount of land it is requesting from the Fed-
eral Government in order to create an equal
value in accordance with section 206(b) of the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)). Land that is not ex-
changed because of equalization under this
subparagraph shall remain subject to lease
under the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Recreation and Public Pur-
poses Act’’) (44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43
U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(B) USE OF FUNDS.—Any cash equalization
moneys received by the Secretary under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be—
(i) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal
Account established by section 206(a) of the
Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act
(43 U.S.C. 2305(a)); and
(ii) used in accordance with that Act (43
U.S.C. 2301 et seq.).
(C) SURPLUS OF NON-FEDERAL LAND
VALUE.—If the final appraised value of the
non-Federal land exceeds the final appraised
value of the Federal land, the United States
shall not make a cash equalization payment
to the City, and surplus value of the non-
Federal land shall be considered a donation
by the City to the United States for all pur-
poses of law.
(d) WITHDRAWAL PROVISIONS.—Lands ac-
quired by the Secretary under this section
are, upon such acquisition, automatically
and permanently withdrawn from all forms
of appropriation and disposal under the pub-
lic land laws (including the mining and min-
eral leasing laws) and the Geothermal Steam
Act of 1930 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
(e) MAPS, ESTIMATES, AND DESCRIPTIONS.—
(1) MINOR ERRORS.—The Secretary and the
City may, by mutual agreement—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1038 February 7, 2019
(A) make minor boundary adjustments to
the Federal and non-Federal lands involved
in the exchange; and
(B) correct any minor errors in any map,
acreage estimate, or description of any land
to be exchanged.
(2) CONFLICT.—If there is a conflict between
a map, an acreage estimate, or a description
of land under this section, the map shall con-
trol unless the Secretary and the City mutu-
ally agree otherwise.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary shall file
and make available for public inspection in
the Arizona headquarters of the Bureau of
Land Management a copy of all maps re-
ferred to in this section.
SEC. 1016. COTTONWOOD LAND EXCHANGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Yavapai County, Arizona.
(2) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means all right, title, and interest of
the United States in and to approximately 80
acres of land within the Coconino National
Forest, in Yavapai County, Arizona, gen-
erally depicted as ‘‘Coconino National Forest
Parcels ‘Federal Land’ ’’ on the map.
(3) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Cottonwood Land Exchange’’, with
the revision date July 5, 2018\Version 1.
(4) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal land’’ means the approximately 369
acres of land in Yavapai County, Arizona,
generally depicted as ‘‘Yavapai County Par-
cels ‘Non-Federal Land’ ’’ on the map.
(5) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, unless
otherwise specified.
(b) LAND EXCHANGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the County offers to
convey to the Secretary all right, title, and
interest of the County in and to the non-Fed-
eral land, the Secretary shall accept the
offer and simultaneously convey to the
County all right, title, and interest of the
United States to the Federal land.
(2) LAND TITLE.—Title to the non-Federal
land conveyed to the Secretary under this
section shall be acceptable to the Secretary
and shall conform to the title approval
standards of the Attorney General of the
United States applicable to land acquisitions
by the Federal Government.
(3) EXCHANGE COSTS.—The County shall pay
for all land survey, appraisal, and other costs
to the Secretary as may be necessary to
process and consummate the exchange under
this section, including reimbursement to the
Secretary, if the Secretary so requests, for
staff time spent in such processing and con-
summation.
(c) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE AND APPRAIS-
ALS.—
(1) APPRAISALS.—The values of the lands to
be exchanged under this section shall be de-
termined by the Secretary through apprais-
als performed—
(A) in accordance with—
(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions;
(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice; and
(iii) appraisal instructions issued by the
Secretary; and
(B) by an appraiser mutually agreed to by
the Secretary and the County.
(2) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE.—The values of
the Federal and non-Federal land parcels ex-
changed shall be equal, or if they are not
equal, shall be equalized as follows:
(A) SURPLUS OF FEDERAL LAND VALUE.—If
the final appraised value of the Federal land
exceeds the final appraised value of the non-
Federal land, the County shall make a cash
equalization payment to the United States
as necessary to achieve equal value, includ-
ing, if necessary, an amount in excess of that
authorized pursuant to section 206(b) of the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)).
(B) USE OF FUNDS.—Any cash equalization
moneys received by the Secretary under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be—
(i) deposited in the fund established under
Public Law 90–171 (commonly known as the
‘‘Sisk Act’’; 16 U.S.C. 484a); and
(ii) made available to the Secretary for the
acquisition of land or interests in land in Re-
gion 3 of the Forest Service.
(C) SURPLUS OF NON-FEDERAL LAND
VALUE.—If the final appraised value of the
non-Federal land exceeds the final appraised
value of the Federal land, the United States
shall not make a cash equalization payment
to the County, and surplus value of the non-
Federal land shall be considered a donation
by the County to the United States for all
purposes of law.
(d) WITHDRAWAL PROVISIONS.—Lands ac-
quired by the Secretary under this section
are, upon such acquisition, automatically
and permanently withdrawn from all forms
of appropriation and disposal under the pub-
lic land laws (including the mining and min-
eral leasing laws) and the Geothermal Steam
Act of 1930 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
(e) MANAGEMENT OF LAND.—Land acquired
by the Secretary under this section shall be-
come part of the Coconino National Forest
and be managed in accordance with the laws,
rules, and regulations applicable to the Na-
tional Forest System.
(f) MAPS, ESTIMATES, AND DESCRIPTIONS.—
(1) MINOR ERRORS.—The Secretary and the
County may, by mutual agreement—
(A) make minor boundary adjustments to
the Federal and non-Federal lands involved
in the exchange; and
(B) correct any minor errors in any map,
acreage estimate, or description of any land
to be exchanged.
(2) CONFLICT.—If there is a conflict between
a map, an acreage estimate, or a description
of land under this section, the map shall con-
trol unless the Secretary and the County
mutually agree otherwise.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary shall file
and make available for public inspection in
the headquarters of the Coconino National
Forest a copy of all maps referred to in this
section.
SEC. 1017. EMBRY-RIDDLE TRI-CITY LAND EX-
CHANGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal land’’ means the approximately 16-
acre parcel of University land identified in
section 3(a) of Public Law 105–363 (112 Stat.
3297).
(2) UNIVERSITY.—The term ‘‘University’’
means Embry-Riddle Aeronautical Univer-
sity, Florida.
(b) CONVEYANCE OF FEDERAL REVERSIONARY
INTEREST IN LAND LOCATED IN THE COUNTY OF
YAVAPAI, ARIZONA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, if after the comple-
tion of the appraisal required under sub-
section (c), the University submits to the
Secretary an offer to acquire the rever-
sionary interests of the United States in and
to the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall
convey to the University the reversionary
interests of the United States in and to the
non-Federal land for the purpose of
unencumbering the title to the non-Federal
land to enable economic development of the
non-Federal land.
(2) LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—As soon as prac-
ticable after the date of enactment of this
Act, the exact legal description of the non-
Federal land shall be determined in a man-
ner satisfactory to the Secretary.
(3) ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—
The Secretary may require such additional
terms and conditions to the conveyance
under paragraph (1), consistent with this sec-
tion, as the Secretary considers appropriate
to protect the interests of the United States.
(4) COSTS.—The University shall pay all
costs associated with the conveyance under
paragraph (1), including the costs of the ap-
praisal required under subsection (c), the
costs of any surveys, recording costs, and
other reasonable costs.
(c) APPRAISAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall complete an appraisal of the
reversionary interests of the United States
in and to the non-Federal land.
(2) APPLICABLE LAW.—The appraisal shall
be completed in accordance with—
(A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(B) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(d) CONSIDERATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As consideration for the
conveyance of the reversionary interests of
the United States in and to the non-Federal
land under this section, the University shall
pay to the Secretary an amount equal to the
appraised value of the interests of the United
States, as determined under subsection (c).
(2) DEPOSIT; USE.—Amounts received under
paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal
Account established by section 206(a) of the
Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act
(43 U.S.C. 2305(a)); and
(B) used in accordance with that Act (43
U.S.C. 2301 et seq.).
Subtitle B—Public Land and National Forest
System Management
SEC. 1101. BOLTS DITCH ACCESS.
(a) ACCESS GRANTED.—The Secretary of Ag-
riculture shall permit by special use author-
ization nonmotorized access and use, in ac-
cordance with section 293.6 of title 36, Code
of Federal Regulations, of the Bolts Ditch
Headgate and the Bolts Ditch within the
Holy Cross Wilderness, Colorado, as des-
ignated by Public Law 96–560 (94 Stat. 3265),
for the purposes of the diversion of water and
use, maintenance, and repair of such ditch
and headgate by the Town of Minturn, Colo-
rado, a Colorado Home Rule Municipality.
(b) LOCATION OF FACILITIES.—The Bolts
Ditch headgate and ditch segment referenced
in subsection (a) are as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘‘Bolts Ditch headgate and
Ditch Segment’’ and dated November 2015.
SEC. 1102. CLARIFICATION RELATING TO A CER-
TAIN LAND DESCRIPTION UNDER
THE NORTHERN ARIZONA LAND EX-
CHANGE AND VERDE RIVER BASIN
PARTNERSHIP ACT OF 2005.
Section 104(a)(5) of the Northern Arizona
Land Exchange and Verde River Basin Part-
nership Act of 2005 (Public Law 109–110; 119
Stat. 2356) is amended by inserting before the
period at the end ‘‘, which, notwithstanding
section 102(a)(4)(B), includes the N1⁄2 NE1⁄4
SW1⁄4 SW1⁄4, the N1⁄2 N1⁄2 SE1⁄4 SW1⁄4, and the
N1⁄2 N1⁄2 SW1⁄4 SE1⁄4, sec. 34, Township 22
North, Range 2 East, Gila and Salt River Me-
ridian, Coconino County, Arizona, com-
prising approximately 25 acres’’.
SEC. 1103. FRANK AND JEANNE MOORE WILD
STEELHEAD SPECIAL MANAGEMENT
AREA.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) Frank Moore has committed his life to
family, friends, his country, and fly fishing;
(2) Frank Moore is a World War II veteran
who stormed the beaches of Normandy along
with 150,000 troops during the D-Day Allied
invasion and was awarded the Chevalier of
the French Legion of Honor for his bravery;
(3) Frank Moore returned home after the
war, started a family, and pursued his pas-
sion of fishing on the winding rivers in Or-
egon;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1039
February 7, 2019
(4) as the proprietor of the Steamboat Inn
along the North Umpqua River in Oregon for
nearly 20 years, Frank Moore, along with his
wife Jeanne, shared his love of fishing, the
flowing river, and the great outdoors, with
visitors from all over the United States and
the world;
(5) Frank Moore has spent most of his life
fishing the vast rivers of Oregon, during
which time he has contributed significantly
to efforts to conserve fish habitats and pro-
tect river health, including serving on the
State of Oregon Fish and Wildlife Commis-
sion;
(6) Frank Moore has been recognized for
his conservation work with the National
Wildlife Federation Conservationist of the
Year award, the Wild Steelhead Coalition
Conservation Award, and his 2010 induction
into the Fresh Water Fishing Hall of Fame;
and
(7) in honor of the many accomplishments
of Frank Moore, both on and off the river,
approximately 99,653 acres of Forest Service
land in the State of Oregon should be des-
ignated as the ‘‘Frank and Jeanne Moore
Wild Steelhead Special Management Area’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Frank Moore Wild Steelhead Spe-
cial Management Area Designation Act’’ and
dated June 23, 2016.
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service.
(3) SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.—The term
‘‘Special Management Area’’ means the
Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead
Special Management Area designated by sub-
section (c)(1).
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Oregon.
(c) FRANK AND JEANNE MOORE WILD
STEELHEAD SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA, OR-
EGON.—
(1) DESIGNATION.—The approximately 99,653
acres of Forest Service land in the State, as
generally depicted on the Map, is designated
as the ‘‘Frank and Jeanne Moore Wild
Steelhead Special Management Area’’.
(2) MAP; LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare a map and legal de-
scription of the Special Management Area.
(B) FORCE OF LAW.—The map and legal de-
scription prepared under subparagraph (A)
shall have the same force and effect as if in-
cluded in this section, except that the Sec-
retary may correct clerical and typo-
graphical errors in the map and legal de-
scription.
(C) AVAILABILITY.—The map and legal de-
scription prepared under subparagraph (A)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—Subject to valid ex-
isting rights, the Special Management Area
shall be administered by the Secretary—
(A) in accordance with all laws (including
regulations) applicable to the National For-
est System; and
(B) in a manner that—
(i) conserves and enhances the natural
character, scientific use, and the botanical,
recreational, ecological, fish and wildlife,
scenic, drinking water, and cultural values
of the Special Management Area;
(ii) maintains and seeks to enhance the
wild salmonid habitat of the Special Man-
agement Area;
(iii) maintains or enhances the watershed
as a thermal refuge for wild salmonids; and
(iv) preserves opportunities for recreation,
including primitive recreation.
(4) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
section affects the jurisdiction or respon-
sibilities of the State with respect to fish
and wildlife in the State.
(5) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—Nothing in
this section—
(A) creates any protective perimeter or
buffer zone around the Special Management
Area; or
(B) modifies the applicable travel manage-
ment plan for the Special Management Area.
(6) WILDFIRE MANAGEMENT.—Nothing in
this section prohibits the Secretary, in co-
operation with other Federal, State, and
local agencies, as appropriate, from con-
ducting wildland fire operations in the Spe-
cial Management Area, consistent with the
purposes of this section, including the use of
aircraft, machinery, mechanized equipment,
fire breaks, backfires, and retardant.
(7) VEGETATION MANAGEMENT.—Nothing in
this section prohibits the Secretary from
conducting vegetation management projects
within the Special Management Area in a
manner consistent with—
(A) the purposes described in paragraph (3);
and
(B) the applicable forest plan.
(8) PROTECTION OF TRIBAL RIGHTS.—Nothing
in this section diminishes any treaty rights
of an Indian Tribe.
(9) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the Federal land within the bound-
aries of the Special Management Area river
segments designated by paragraph (1) is
withdrawn from all forms of—
(A) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(C) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.
SEC. 1104. MAINTENANCE OR REPLACEMENT OF
FACILITIES AND STRUCTURES AT
SMITH GULCH.
The authorization of the Secretary of Agri-
culture to maintain or replace facilities or
structures for commercial recreation serv-
ices at Smith Gulch under section 3(a)(24)(D)
of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)(24)(D))—
(1) may include improvements or replace-
ments that the Secretary of Agriculture de-
termines—
(A) are consistent with section 9(b) of the
Central Idaho Wilderness Act of 1980 (16
U.S.C. 1281 note; Public Law 96–312); and
(B) would reduce the impact of the com-
mercial recreation facilities or services on
wilderness or wild and scenic river resources
and values; and
(2) authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture
to consider including, as appropriate—
(A) hydroelectric generators and associ-
ated electrical transmission facilities;
(B) water pumps for fire suppression;
(C) transitions from propane to electrical
lighting;
(D) solar energy systems;
(E) 6-volt or 12-volt battery banks for
power storage; and
(F) other improvements or replacements
which are consistent with this section that
the Secretary of Agriculture determines ap-
propriate.
SEC. 1105. REPEAL OF PROVISION LIMITING THE
EXPORT OF TIMBER HARVESTED
FROM CERTAIN KAKE TRIBAL COR-
PORATION LAND.
Section 42 of the Alaska Native Claims
Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1629h) is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking subsection (h);
(2) by redesignating subsection (i) as sub-
section (h); and
(3) in subsection (h) (as so redesignated), in
the first sentence, by striking ‘‘and to pro-
vide’’ and all that follows through ‘‘sub-
section (h)’’.
SEC. 1106. DESIGNATION OF FOWLER AND
BOSKOFF PEAKS.
(a) DESIGNATION OF FOWLER PEAK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The 13,498-foot mountain
peak, located at 37.8569° N, by ¥108.0117° W, in
the Uncompahgre National Forest in the
State of Colorado, shall be known and des-
ignated as ‘‘Fowler Peak’’.
(2) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the peak de-
scribed in paragraph (1) shall be deemed to
be a reference to ‘‘Fowler Peak’’.
(b) DESIGNATION OF BOSKOFF PEAK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The 13,123-foot mountain
peak, located at 37.85549° N, by ¥108.03112° W,
in the Uncompahgre National Forest in the
State of Colorado, shall be known and des-
ignated as ‘‘Boskoff Peak’’.
(2) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the peak de-
scribed in paragraph (1) shall be deemed to
be a reference to ‘‘Boskoff Peak’’.
SEC. 1107. CORONADO NATIONAL FOREST LAND
CONVEYANCE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) PERMITTEE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘permittee’’
means a person who, on the date of enact-
ment of this Act, holds a valid permit for use
of a property.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘permittee’’ in-
cludes any heirs, executors, and assigns of
the permittee or interest of the permittee.
(2) PROPERTY.—The term ‘‘property’’
means—
(A) the approximately 1.1 acres of National
Forest System land in sec. 8, T. 10 S., R. 16
E., Gila and Salt River Meridian, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Coro-
nado National Forest Land Conveyance Act
of 2017’’, special use permit numbered
SAN5005–03, and dated October 2017;
(B) the approximately 4.5 acres of National
Forest System land in sec. 8, T. 10 S., R. 16
E., Gila and Salt River Meridian, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Coro-
nado National Forest Land Conveyance Act
of 2017’’, special use permit numbered
SAN5116–03, and dated October 2017; and
(C) the approximately 3.9 acres of National
Forest System land in NW1⁄4, sec. 1, T. 10 S.,
R. 15 E., Gila and Salt River Meridian, as
generally depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Coronado National Forest Land Conveyance
Act of 2017’’, special use permit numbered
SAN5039–02, and dated October 2017.
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(b) SALE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, during the period described in para-
graph (2), not later than 90 days after the
date on which a permittee submits a request
to the Secretary, the Secretary shall—
(A) accept tender of consideration from
that permittee; and
(B) sell and quitclaim to that permittee all
right, title, and interest of the United States
in and to the property for which the per-
mittee holds a permit.
(2) PERIOD DESCRIBED.—The period referred
to in paragraph (1) is the period beginning on
the date of enactment of this Act and ending
on the date of expiration of the applicable
permit.
(c) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—The Secretary
may establish such terms and conditions on
the sales of the properties under this section
as the Secretary determines to be in the pub-
lic interest.
(d) CONSIDERATION.—A sale of a property
under this section shall be for cash consider-
ation equal to the market value of the prop-
erty, as determined by the appraisal de-
scribed in subsection (e).
(e) APPRAISAL.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1040 February 7, 2019
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall com-
plete an appraisal of each property, which
shall—
(A) include the value of any appurtenant
easements; and
(B) exclude the value of any private im-
provements made by a permittee of the prop-
erty before the date of appraisal.
(2) STANDARDS.—An appraisal under para-
graph (1) shall be conducted in accordance
with—
(A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions, established in ac-
cordance with the Uniform Relocation As-
sistance and Real Property Acquisition Poli-
cies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.); and
(B) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(f) COSTS.—The Secretary shall pay—
(1) the cost of a conveyance of a property
under this section; and
(2) the cost of an appraisal under sub-
section (e).
(g) PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF LAND.—
Any payment received by the Secretary from
the sale of property under this section shall
be deposited in the fund established under
Public Law 90–171 (commonly known as the
‘‘Sisk Act’’) (16 U.S.C. 484a) and shall be
available to the Secretary until expended for
the acquisition of inholdings in national for-
ests in the State of Arizona.
(h) MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file maps and legal descrip-
tions of each property.
(2) FORCE OF LAW.—The maps and legal de-
scriptions filed under paragraph (1) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this section, except that the Secretary
may correct typographical errors in the
maps and legal descriptions.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The maps and
legal descriptions filed under paragraph (1)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the office of the Supervisor of the
Coronado National Forest.
SEC. 1108. DESCHUTES CANYON-STEELHEAD
FALLS WILDERNESS STUDY AREA
BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT, OREGON.
(a) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—The boundary
of the Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls
Wilderness Study Area is modified to exclude
approximately 688 acres of public land, as de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Deschutes Can-
yon-Steelhead Falls Wilderness Study Area
(WSA) Proposed Boundary Adjustment’’ and
dated September 26, 2018.
(b) EFFECT OF EXCLUSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The public land excluded
from the Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls
Wilderness Study Area under subsection
(a)—
(A) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
(B) shall be managed in accordance with—
(i) this section;
(ii) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
(iii) any applicable resource management
plan.
(2) MANAGEMENT.—The Secretary shall
manage the land excluded from the
Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls Wilder-
ness Study Area under subsection (a) to im-
prove fire resiliency and forest health, in-
cluding the conduct of wildfire prevention
and response activities, as appropriate.
(3) OFF-ROAD RECREATIONAL MOTORIZED
USE.—The Secretary shall not permit off-
road recreational motorized use on the pub-
lic land excluded from the Deschutes Can-
yon-Steelhead Falls Wilderness Study Area
under subsection (a).
SEC. 1109. MAINTENANCE OF FEDERAL MINERAL
LEASES BASED ON EXTRACTION OF
HELIUM.
The first section of the Mineral Leasing
Act (30 U.S.C. 181) is amended in the fifth
paragraph by inserting after ‘‘purchaser
thereof’’ the following: ‘‘, and that extrac-
tion of helium from gas produced from such
lands shall maintain the lease as if the ex-
tracted helium were oil and gas’’.
SEC. 1110. SMALL MINER WAIVERS TO CLAIM
MAINTENANCE FEES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COVERED CLAIMHOLDER.—The term ‘‘cov-
ered claimholder’’ means—
(A) the claimholder of the claims in the
State numbered AA023149, AA023163,
AA047913, AA047914, AA047915, AA047916,
AA047917, AA047918, and AA047919 (as of De-
cember 29, 2004);
(B) the claimholder of the claim in the
State numbered FF–059315 (as of December
29, 2004);
(C) the claimholder of the claims in the
State numbered FF–58607, FF–58608, FF–
58609, FF–58610, FF–58611, FF–58613, FF–58615,
FF–58616, FF–58617, and FF–58618 (as of De-
cember 31, 2003); and
(D) the claimholder of the claims in the
State numbered FF–53988, FF–53989, and FF–
53990 (as of December 31, 1987).
(2) DEFECT.—The term ‘‘defect’’ includes a
failure—
(A) to timely file—
(i) a small miner maintenance fee waiver
application;
(ii) an affidavit of annual labor associated
with a small miner maintenance fee waiver
application; or
(iii) an instrument required under section
314(a) of the Federal Land Policy and Man-
agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1744(a)); and
(B) to pay the required application fee for
a small maintenance fee waiver application.
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Alaska.
(b) TREATMENT OF COVERED
CLAIMHOLDERS.—Notwithstanding section
10101(d) of the Omnibus Budget Reconcili-
ation Act of 1993 (30 U.S.C. 28f(d)) and section
314(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Man-
agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1744(c)), each
covered claimholder shall, during the 60-day
period beginning on the date on which the
covered claimholder receives written notifi-
cation from the Bureau of Land Management
by registered mail of the opportunity, have
the opportunity—
(1)(A) to cure any defect in a small miner
maintenance fee waiver application (includ-
ing the failure to timely file a small miner
maintenance fee waiver application) for any
prior period during which the defect existed;
or
(B) to pay any claim maintenance fees due
for any prior period during which the defect
existed; and
(2) to cure any defect in the filing of any
instrument required under section 314(a) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1744(a)) (including the
failure to timely file any required instru-
ment) for any prior period during which the
defect existed.
(c) REINSTATEMENT OF CLAIMS DEEMED FOR-
FEITED.—The Secretary shall reinstate any
claim of a covered claimholder as of the date
declared forfeited and void—
(1) under section 10104 of the Omnibus
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (30 U.S.C.
28i) for failure to pay the claim maintenance
fee or obtain a valid waiver under section
10101 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation
Act of 1993 (30 U.S.C. 28f); or
(2) under section 314(c) of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1744(c)) for failure to file any instru-
ment required under section 314(a) of that
Act (43 U.S.C. 1744(a)) for any prior period
during which the defect existed if the cov-
ered claimholder—
(A) cures the defect; or
(B) pays the claim maintenance fee under
subsection (b)(1)(B).
SEC. 1111. SAINT FRANCIS DAM DISASTER NA-
TIONAL MEMORIAL AND NATIONAL
MONUMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MEMORIAL.—The term ‘‘Memorial’’
means the Saint Francis Dam Disaster Na-
tional Memorial authorized under subsection
(b)(1).
(2) MONUMENT.—The term ‘‘Monument’’
means the Saint Francis Dam Disaster Na-
tional Monument established by subsection
(d)(1).
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of California.
(b) SAINT FRANCIS DAM DISASTER NATIONAL
MEMORIAL.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary may
establish a memorial at the Saint Francis
Dam site in the county of Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, for the purpose of honoring the vic-
tims of the Saint Francis Dam disaster of
March 12, 1928.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The Memorial shall
be—
(A) known as the ‘‘Saint Francis Dam Dis-
aster National Memorial’’; and
(B) managed by the Forest Service.
(3) DONATIONS.—The Secretary may accept,
hold, administer, invest, and spend any gift,
devise, or bequest of real or personal prop-
erty made to the Secretary for purposes of
developing, designing, constructing, and
managing the Memorial.
(c) RECOMMENDATIONS FOR MEMORIAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to Congress rec-
ommendations regarding—
(A) the planning, design, construction, and
long-term management of the Memorial;
(B) the proposed boundaries of the Memo-
rial;
(C) a visitor center and educational facili-
ties at the Memorial; and
(D) ensuring public access to the Memo-
rial.
(2) CONSULTATION.—In preparing the rec-
ommendations required under paragraph (1),
the Secretary shall consult with—
(A) appropriate Federal agencies;
(B) State, Tribal, and local governments,
including the Santa Clarita City Council;
and
(C) the public.
(d) ESTABLISHMENT OF SAINT FRANCIS DAM
DISASTER NATIONAL MONUMENT.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
as a national monument in the State certain
National Forest System land administered
by the Secretary in the county of Los Ange-
les, California, comprising approximately 353
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Proposed Saint Francis Dam Disaster
National Monument’’ and dated September
12, 2018, to be known as the ‘‘Saint Francis
Dam Disaster National Monument’’.
(2) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Monu-
ment is to conserve and enhance for the ben-
efit and enjoyment of the public the cul-
tural, archaeological, historical, watershed,
educational, and recreational resources and
values of the Monument.
(e) DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY WITH RE-
SPECT TO MONUMENT.—
(1) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 4 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall develop a management plan
for the Monument.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1041
February 7, 2019
(B) CONSULTATION.—The management plan
shall be developed in consultation with—
(i) appropriate Federal agencies;
(ii) State, Tribal, and local governments;
and
(iii) the public.
(C) CONSIDERATIONS.—In developing and
implementing the management plan, the
Secretary shall, with respect to methods of
protecting and providing access to the Monu-
ment, consider the recommendations of the
Saint Francis Disaster National Memorial
Foundation, the Santa Clarita Valley Histor-
ical Society, and the Community Hiking
Club of Santa Clarita.
(2) MANAGEMENT.—The Secretary shall
manage the Monument—
(A) in a manner that conserves and en-
hances the cultural and historic resources of
the Monument; and
(B) in accordance with—
(i) the Forest and Rangeland Renewable
Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600
et seq.);
(ii) the laws generally applicable to the
National Forest System;
(iii) this section; and
(iv) any other applicable laws.
(3) USES.—
(A) USE OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—The use
of motorized vehicles within the Monument
may be permitted only—
(i) on roads designated for use by motor-
ized vehicles in the management plan re-
quired under paragraph (1);
(ii) for administrative purposes; or
(iii) for emergency responses.
(B) GRAZING.—The Secretary shall permit
grazing within the Monument, where estab-
lished before the date of enactment of this
Act—
(i) subject to all applicable laws (including
regulations and Executive orders); and
(ii) consistent with the purpose described
in subsection (d)(2).
(4) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the Monument.
(B) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE NATIONAL MONU-
MENT.—The fact that an activity or use on
land outside the Monument can be seen or
heard within the Monument shall not pre-
clude the activity or use outside the bound-
ary of the Monument.
(f) CLARIFICATION ON FUNDING.—
(1) USE OF EXISTING FUNDS.—This section
shall be carried out using amounts otherwise
made available to the Secretary.
(2) NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS.—No additional
funds are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section.
(g) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section affects
the operation, maintenance, replacement, or
modification of existing water resource,
flood control, utility, pipeline, or tele-
communications facilities that are located
outside the boundary of the Monument, sub-
ject to the special use authorities of the Sec-
retary of Agriculture and other applicable
laws.
SEC. 1112. OWYHEE WILDERNESS AREAS BOUND-
ARY MODIFICATIONS.
(a) BOUNDARY MODIFICATIONS.—
(1) NORTH FORK OWYHEE WILDERNESS.—The
boundary of the North Fork Owyhee Wilder-
ness established by section 1503(a)(1)(D) of
the Omnibus Public Land Management Act
of 2009 (Public Law 111–11; 123 Stat. 1033) is
modified to exclude certain land, as depicted
on—
(A) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘North Fork Owyhee and Pole Creek
Wilderness Aerial’’ and dated July 19, 2016;
and
(B) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘North Fork Owyhee River Wilder-
ness Big Springs Camp Zoom Aerial’’ and
dated July 19, 2016.
(2) OWYHEE RIVER WILDERNESS.—The bound-
ary of the Owyhee River Wilderness estab-
lished by section 1503(a)(1)(E) of the Omnibus
Public Land Management Act of 2009 (Public
Law 111–11; 123 Stat. 1033) is modified to ex-
clude certain land, as depicted on—
(A) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘North Fork Owyhee, Pole Creek,
and Owyhee River Wilderness Aerial’’ and
dated July 19, 2016;
(B) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘Owyhee River Wilderness Kincaid
Reservoir Zoom Aerial’’ and dated July 19,
2016; and
(C) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘Owyhee River Wilderness
Dickshooter Road Zoom Aerial’’ and dated
July 19, 2016.
(3) POLE CREEK WILDERNESS.—The boundary
of the Pole Creek Wilderness established by
section 1503(a)(1)(F) of the Omnibus Public
Land Management Act of 2009 (Public Law
111–11; 123 Stat. 1033) is modified to exclude
certain land, as depicted on—
(A) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘North Fork Owyhee, Pole Creek,
and Owyhee River Wilderness Aerial’’ and
dated July 19, 2016; and
(B) the Bureau of Land Management map
entitled ‘‘Pole Creek Wilderness Pullout
Zoom Aerial’’ and dated July 19, 2016.
(b) MAPS.—
(1) EFFECT.—The maps referred to in sub-
section (a) shall have the same force and ef-
fect as if included in this Act, except that
the Secretary may correct minor errors in
the maps.
(2) AVAILABILITY.—The maps referred to in
subsection (a) shall be available in the ap-
propriate offices of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
SEC. 1113. CHUGACH REGION LAND STUDY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CAC.—The term ‘‘CAC’’ means the Chu-
gach Alaska Corporation.
(2) CAC LAND.—The term ‘‘CAC land’’
means land conveyed to CAC pursuant to the
Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43
U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) under which—
(A) both the surface estate and the sub-
surface estate were conveyed to CAC; or
(B)(i) the subsurface estate was conveyed
to CAC; and
(ii) the surface estate or a conservation
easement in the surface estate was acquired
by the State or by the United States as part
of the program.
(3) PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘program’’ means
the Habitat Protection and Acquisition Pro-
gram of the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Trustee
Council.
(4) REGION.—The term ‘‘Region’’ means the
Chugach Region, Alaska.
(5) STUDY.—The term ‘‘study’’ means the
study conducted under subsection (b)(1).
(b) CHUGACH REGION LAND EXCHANGE
STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary, in coordination with the Secretary of
Agriculture and in consultation with CAC,
shall conduct a study of land ownership and
use patterns in the Region.
(2) STUDY REQUIREMENTS.—The study
shall—
(A) assess the social and economic impacts
of the program, including impacts caused by
split estate ownership patterns created by
Federal acquisitions under the program, on—
(i) the Region; and
(ii) CAC and CAC land;
(B) identify sufficient acres of accessible
and economically viable Federal land that
can be offered in exchange for CAC land iden-
tified by CAC as available for exchange; and
(C) provide recommendations for land ex-
change options with CAC that would—
(i) consolidate ownership of the surface and
mineral estate of Federal land under the pro-
gram; and
(ii) convey to CAC Federal land identified
under subparagraph (B).
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report de-
scribing the results of the study, including—
(1) a recommendation on options for 1 or
more land exchanges; and
(2) detailed information on—
(A) the acres of Federal land identified for
exchange; and
(B) any other recommendations provided
by the Secretary.
SEC. 1114. WILDFIRE TECHNOLOGY MODERNIZA-
TION.
(a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section
is to promote the use of the best available
technology to enhance the effective and
cost-efficient response to wildfires—
(1) to meet applicable protection objec-
tives; and
(2) to increase the safety of—
(A) firefighters; and
(B) the public.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) SECRETARIES.—The term ‘‘Secretaries’’
means—
(A) the Secretary of Agriculture; and
(B) the Secretary.
(2) SECRETARY CONCERNED.—The term ‘‘Sec-
retary concerned’’ means—
(A) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to activities under the Department of
Agriculture; and
(B) the Secretary, with respect to activi-
ties under the Department of the Interior.
(c) UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection, the
terms ‘‘unmanned aircraft’’ and ‘‘unmanned
aircraft system’’ have the meanings given
those terms in section 44801 of title 49,
United States Code.
(2) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with
the Secretary of Agriculture, shall establish
a research, development, and testing pro-
gram, or expand an applicable existing pro-
gram, to assess unmanned aircraft system
technologies, including optionally piloted
aircraft, across the full range of wildland fire
management operations in order to accel-
erate the deployment and integration of
those technologies into the operations of the
Secretaries.
(3) EXPANDING USE OF UNMANNED AIRCRAFT
SYSTEMS ON WILDFIRES.—In carrying out the
program established under paragraph (2), the
Secretaries, in coordination with the Federal
Aviation Administration, State wildland
firefighting agencies, and other relevant
Federal agencies, shall enter into an agree-
ment under which the Secretaries shall de-
velop consistent protocols and plans for the
use on wildland fires of unmanned aircraft
system technologies, including for the devel-
opment of real-time maps of the location of
wildland fires.
(d) LOCATION SYSTEMS FOR WILDLAND FIRE-
FIGHTERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, sub-
ject to the availability of appropriations, the
Secretaries, in coordination with State
wildland firefighting agencies, shall jointly
develop and operate a tracking system (re-
ferred to in this subsection as the ‘‘system’’)
to remotely locate the positions of fire re-
sources for use by wildland firefighters, in-
cluding, at a minimum, any fire resources
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1042 February 7, 2019
assigned to Federal type 1 wildland fire inci-
dent management teams.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The system shall—
(A) use the most practical and effective
technology available to the Secretaries to
remotely track the location of an active re-
source, such as a Global Positioning System;
(B) depict the location of each fire resource
on the applicable maps developed under sub-
section (c)(3);
(C) operate continuously during the period
for which any firefighting personnel are as-
signed to the applicable Federal wildland
fire; and
(D) be subject to such terms and conditions
as the Secretary concerned determines nec-
essary for the effective implementation of
the system.
(3) OPERATION.—The Secretary concerned
shall—
(A) before commencing operation of the
system—
(i) conduct not fewer than 2 pilot projects
relating to the operation, management, and
effectiveness of the system; and
(ii) review the results of those pilot
projects;
(B) conduct training, and maintain a cul-
ture, such that an employee, officer, or con-
tractor shall not rely on the system for safe-
ty; and
(C) establish procedures for the collection,
storage, and transfer of data collected under
this subsection to ensure—
(i) data security; and
(ii) the privacy of wildland fire personnel.
(e) WILDLAND FIRE DECISION SUPPORT.—
(1) PROTOCOL.—To the maximum extent
practicable, the Secretaries shall ensure that
wildland fire management activities con-
ducted by the Secretaries, or conducted
jointly by the Secretaries and State wildland
firefighting agencies, achieve compliance
with applicable incident management objec-
tives in a manner that—
(A) minimizes firefighter exposure to the
lowest level necessary; and
(B) reduces overall costs of wildfire inci-
dents.
(2) WILDFIRE DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEM.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries, in co-
ordination with State wildland firefighting
agencies, shall establish a system or expand
an existing system to track and monitor de-
cisions made by the Secretaries or State
wildland firefighting agencies in managing
wildfires.
(B) COMPONENTS.—The system established
or expanded under subparagraph (A) shall be
able to alert the Secretaries if—
(i) unusual costs are incurred;
(ii) an action to be carried out would like-
ly—
(I) endanger the safety of a firefighter; or
(II) be ineffective in meeting an applicable
suppression or protection goal; or
(iii) a decision regarding the management
of a wildfire deviates from—
(I) an applicable protocol established by
the Secretaries, including the requirement
under paragraph (1); or
(II) an applicable spatial fire management
plan or fire management plan of the Sec-
retary concerned.
(f) SMOKE PROJECTIONS FROM ACTIVE
WILDLAND FIRES.—The Secretaries shall es-
tablish a program, to be known as the
‘‘Interagency Wildland Fire Air Quality Re-
sponse Program’’, under which the Secretary
concerned—
(1) to the maximum extent practicable,
shall assign 1 or more air resource advisors
to a type 1 incident management team man-
aging a Federal wildland fire; and
(2) may assign 1 or more air resource advi-
sors to a type 2 incident management team
managing a wildland fire.
(g) FIREFIGHTER INJURIES DATABASE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 9(a) of the Federal
Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (15
U.S.C. 2208(a)) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘, cat-
egorized by the type of fire’’ after ‘‘such in-
juries and deaths’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking ‘‘activi-
ties;’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘activi-
ties, including—
‘‘(A) all injuries sustained by a firefighter
and treated by a doctor, categorized by the
type of firefighter;
‘‘(B) all deaths sustained while undergoing
a pack test or preparing for a work capacity;
‘‘(C) all injuries or deaths resulting from
vehicle accidents; and
‘‘(D) all injuries or deaths resulting from
aircraft crashes;’’.
(2) USE OF EXISTING DATA GATHERING AND
ANALYSIS ORGANIZATIONS.—Section 9(b)(3) of
the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act
of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2208(b)(3)) is amended by in-
serting ‘‘, including the Center for Fire-
fighter Injury Research and Safety Trends’’
after ‘‘public and private’’.
(3) MEDICAL PRIVACY OF FIREFIGHTERS.—
Section 9 of the Federal Fire Prevention and
Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2208) is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) MEDICAL PRIVACY OF FIREFIGHTERS.—
The collection, storage, and transfer of any
medical data collected under this section
shall be conducted in accordance with—
‘‘(1) the privacy regulations promulgated
under section 264(c) of the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
(42 U.S.C. 1320d–2 note; Public Law 104–191);
and
‘‘(2) other applicable regulations, including
parts 160, 162, and 164 of title 45, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (as in effect on the date of
enactment of this subsection).’’.
(h) RAPID RESPONSE EROSION DATABASE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries, in con-
sultation with the Administrator of the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion and the Secretary of Commerce, shall
establish and maintain a database, to be
known as the ‘‘Rapid Response Erosion Data-
base’’ (referred to in this subsection as the
‘‘Database’’).
(2) OPEN-SOURCE DATABASE.—
(A) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretaries shall
make the Database (including the original
source code)—
(i) web-based; and
(ii) available without charge.
(B) COMPONENTS.—To the maximum extent
practicable, the Database shall provide for—
(i) the automatic incorporation of spatial
data relating to vegetation, soils, and ele-
vation into an applicable map created by the
Secretary concerned that depicts the
changes in land-cover and soil properties
caused by a wildland fire; and
(ii) the generation of a composite map that
can be used by the Secretary concerned to
model the effectiveness of treatments in the
burned area to prevent flooding, erosion, and
landslides under a range of weather sce-
narios.
(3) USE.—The Secretary concerned shall
use the Database, as applicable, in devel-
oping recommendations for emergency sta-
bilization treatments or modifications to
drainage structures to protect values-at-risk
following a wildland fire.
(4) COORDINATION.—The Secretaries may
share the Database, and any results gen-
erated in using the Database, with any State
or unit of local government.
(i) PREDICTING WHERE WILDFIRES WILL
START.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries, in con-
sultation with the Administrator of the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion, the Secretary of Energy, and the Sec-
retary of Commerce, through the capabili-
ties and assets located at the National Lab-
oratories, shall establish and maintain a sys-
tem to predict the locations of future
wildfires for fire-prone areas of the United
States.
(2) COOPERATION; COMPONENTS.—The system
established under paragraph (1) shall be
based on, and seek to enhance, similar sys-
tems in existence on the date of enactment
of this Act, including the Fire Danger As-
sessment System.
(3) USE IN FORECASTS.—Not later than 1
year after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretaries shall use the system estab-
lished under paragraph (1), to the maximum
extent practicable, for purposes of devel-
oping any wildland fire potential forecasts.
(4) COORDINATION.—The Secretaries may
share the system established under para-
graph (1), and any results generated in using
the system, with any State or unit of local
government.
(j) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The au-
thority provided by this section terminates
on the date that is 10 years after the date of
enactment of this Act.
(k) SAVINGS CLAUSE.—Nothing in this sec-
tion—
(1) requires the Secretary concerned to es-
tablish a new program, system, or database
to replace an existing program, system, or
database that meets the objectives of this
section; or
(2) precludes the Secretary concerned from
using existing or future technology that—
(A) is more efficient, safer, or better meets
the needs of firefighters, other personnel, or
the public; and
(B) meets the objectives of this section.
SEC. 1115. MCCOY FLATS TRAIL SYSTEM.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Uintah County, Utah.
(2) DECISION RECORD.—The term ‘‘Decision
Record’’ means the Decision Record prepared
by the Bureau of Land Management for the
Environmental Assessment for the McCoy
Flats Trail System numbered DOI-BLM-
G010-2012-0057 and dated October 2012.
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Utah.
(4) TRAIL SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘Trail Sys-
tem’’ means the McCoy Flats Trail System
established by subsection (b)(1).
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, there is established the McCoy Flats
Trail System in the State.
(2) AREA INCLUDED.—The Trail System
shall include public land administered by the
Bureau of Land Management in the County,
as described in the Decision Record.
(c) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare a map and legal de-
scription of the Trail System.
(2) AVAILABILITY; TRANSMITTAL TO CON-
GRESS.—The map and legal description pre-
pared under paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) available in appropriate offices of the
Bureau of Land Management; and
(B) transmitted by the Secretary to—
(i) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives; and
(ii) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
(3) FORCE AND EFFECT.—The map and legal
description prepared under paragraph (1)
shall have the same force and effect as if in-
cluded in this section, except that the Sec-
retary may correct any clerical or typo-
graphical errors in the map and legal de-
scription.
(d) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer the Trail System in accordance
with—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1043
February 7, 2019
(1) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
(2) this section; and
(3) other applicable law.
(e) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary, in consultation and coordination
with the County and affected Indian Tribes,
shall prepare a management plan for the
Trail System.
(2) PUBLIC COMMENT.—The management
plan shall be developed with opportunities
for public comment.
(3) INTERIM MANAGEMENT.—Until the com-
pletion of the management plan, the Trail
System shall be administered in accordance
with the Decision Record.
(4) RECREATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES.—In de-
veloping the management plan, the Sec-
retary shall seek to provide for new moun-
tain bike route and trail construction to in-
crease recreational opportunities within the
Trail System, consistent with this section.
(f) USES.—The Trail System shall be used
for nonmotorized mountain bike recreation,
as described in the Decision Record.
(g) ACQUISITION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—On the request of the
State, the Secretary shall seek to acquire
State land, or interests in State land, lo-
cated within the Trail System by purchase
from a willing seller or exchange.
(2) ADMINISTRATION OF ACQUIRED LAND.—
Any land acquired under this subsection
shall be administered as part of the Trail
System.
(h) FEES.—No fees shall be charged for ac-
cess to, or use of, the Trail System and asso-
ciated parking areas.
SEC. 1116. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO CER-
TAIN LAWS RELATING TO FEDERAL
LAND IN THE STATE OF NEVADA.
(a) AMENDMENT TO CONVEYANCE OF FED-
ERAL LAND IN STOREY COUNTY, NEVADA.—Sec-
tion 3009(d) of the Carl Levin and Howard P.
‘‘Buck’’ McKeon National Defense Author-
ization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law
113–291; 128 Stat. 3751) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking subparagraphs (B) through
(D) and redesignating subparagraph (E) as
subparagraph (D); and
(B) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the
following:
‘‘(B) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘Federal
land’ means the land generally depicted as
‘Federal land’ on the map.
‘‘(C) MAP.—The term ‘map’ means the map
entitled ‘Storey County Land Conveyance’
and dated June 6, 2018.’’.
(2) in paragraph (3)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking
‘‘after completing the mining claim validity
review under paragraph (2)(B), if requested
by the County,’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) in clause (i)—
(I) in the matter preceding subclause (I),
by striking ‘‘each parcel of land located in a
mining townsite’’ and inserting ‘‘any Federal
land’’;
(II) in subclause (I), by striking ‘‘mining
townsite’’ and inserting ‘‘Federal land’’; and
(III) in subclause (II), by striking ‘‘mining
townsite (including improvements to the
mining townsite), as identified for convey-
ance on the map’’ and inserting ‘‘Federal
land (including improvements)’’;
(ii) by striking clause (ii);
(iii) by striking the subparagraph designa-
tion and heading and all that follows
through ‘‘With respect’’ in the matter pre-
ceding subclause (I) of clause (i) and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(B) VALID MINING CLAIMS.—With respect’’;
and
(iv) by redesignating subclauses (I) and (II)
as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively, and in-
denting appropriately;
(3) in paragraph (4)(A), by striking ‘‘a min-
ing townsite conveyed under paragraph
(3)(B)(i)(II)’’ and inserting ‘‘Federal land con-
veyed under paragraph (2)(B)(ii)’’;
(4) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘a mining
townsite under paragraph (3)’’ and inserting
‘‘Federal land under paragraph (2)’’;
(5) in paragraph (6), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘min-
ing townsite’’ and inserting ‘‘Federal land’’;
(6) in paragraph (7), by striking ‘‘A mining
townsite to be conveyed by the United
States under paragraph (3)’’ and inserting
‘‘The exterior boundary of the Federal land
to be conveyed by the United States under
paragraph (2)’’;
(7) in paragraph (9)—
(A) by striking ‘‘a mining townsite under
paragraph (3)’’ and inserting ‘‘the Federal
land under paragraph (2)’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘the mining townsite’’ and
inserting ‘‘the Federal land’’;
(8) in paragraph (10), by striking ‘‘the ex-
amination’’ and all that follows through the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘the convey-
ance under paragraph (2) should be com-
pleted by not later than 18 months after the
date of enactment of the Natural Resources
Management Act.’’;
(9) by striking paragraphs (2) and (8);
(10) by redesignating paragraphs (3)
through (7) and (9) and (10) as paragraphs (2)
through (6) and (7) and (8) respectively; and
(11) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(9) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of
Land Management.’’.
(b) MODIFICATION OF UTILITY CORRIDOR.—
The Secretary shall realign the utility cor-
ridor established by section 301(a) of the Lin-
coln County Conservation, Recreation, and
Development Act of 2004 (Public Law 108–424;
118 Stat. 2412) to be aligned as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Proposed
LCCRDA Utility Corridor Realignment’’ and
dated March 14, 2017, by modifying the map
entitled ‘‘Lincoln County Conservation,
Recreation, and Development Act’’ (referred
to in this subsection as the ‘‘Map’’) and
dated October 1, 2004, by—
(1) removing the utility corridor from sec-
tions 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, and 15, T. 7 N., R.
68 E., of the Map; and
(2) redesignating the utility corridor so as
to appear on the Map in—
(A) sections 31, 32, and 33, T. 8 N., R. 68 E.;
(B) sections 4, 5, 6, and 7, T. 7 N., R. 68 E.;
and
(C) sections 1 and 12, T. 7 N., 67 E.
(c) FINAL CORRECTIVE PATENT IN CLARK
COUNTY, NEVADA.—
(1) VALIDATION OF PATENT.—Patent number
27–2005–0081, issued by the Bureau of Land
Management on February 18, 2005, is af-
firmed and validated as having been issued
pursuant to, and in compliance with, the Ne-
vada-Florida Land Exchange Authorization
Act of 1988 (Public Law 100–275; 102 Stat. 52),
the National Environmental Policy Act of
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), and the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) for the benefit of the
desert tortoise, other species, and the habi-
tat of the desert tortoise and other species to
increase the likelihood of the recovery of the
desert tortoise and other species.
(2) RATIFICATION OF RECONFIGURATION.—The
process used by the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service and the Bureau of Land
Management in reconfiguring the land de-
scribed in paragraph (1), as depicted on Ex-
hibit 1–4 of the Final Environmental Impact
Statement for the Planned Development
Project MSHCP, Lincoln County, NV (FWS–
R8–ES–2008–N0136), and the reconfiguration
provided for in special condition 10 of the
Corps of Engineers Permit No. 000005042, are
ratified.
(d) ISSUANCE OF CORRECTIVE PATENT IN LIN-
COLN COUNTY, NEVADA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, acting
through the Director of the Bureau of Land
Management, may issue a corrective patent
for the 7,548 acres of land in Lincoln County,
Nevada, depicted on the map prepared by the
Bureau of Land Management entitled ‘‘Pro-
posed Lincoln County Land Reconfigura-
tion’’ and dated January 28, 2016.
(2) APPLICABLE LAW.—A corrective patent
issued under paragraph (1) shall be treated as
issued pursuant to, and in compliance with,
the Nevada-Florida Land Exchange Author-
ization Act of 1988 (Public Law 100–275; 102
Stat. 52).
(e) CONVEYANCE TO LINCOLN COUNTY, NE-
VADA, TO SUPPORT A LANDFILL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
subject to valid existing rights, at the re-
quest of Lincoln County, Nevada, the Sec-
retary shall convey without consideration
under the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Recreation and Public Pur-
poses Act’’) (44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43
U.S.C. 869 et seq.), to Lincoln County all
right, title and interest of the United States
in and to approximately 400 acres of land in
Lincoln County, Nevada, more particularly
described as follows: T. 11 S., R. 62, E., Sec-
tion 25 E 1⁄2 of W 1⁄2; and W 1⁄2 of E 1⁄2; and E
1⁄2 of SE 1⁄4.
(2) RESERVATION.—The Secretary shall re-
serve to the United States the mineral estate
in any land conveyed under paragraph (1).
(3) USE OF CONVEYED LAND.—The land con-
veyed under paragraph (1) shall be used by
Lincoln County, Nevada, to provide a suit-
able location for the establishment of a cen-
tralized landfill and to provide a designated
area and authorized facilities to discourage
unauthorized dumping and trash disposal on
environmentally-sensitive public land. Lin-
coln County may not dispose of the land con-
veyed under paragraph (1).
(4) REVERSION.—If Lincoln County, Nevada,
ceases to use any parcel of land conveyed
under paragraph (1) for the purposes de-
scribed in paragraph (3)—
(A) title to the parcel shall revert to the
Secretary, at the option of the Secretary;
and
(B) Lincoln County shall be responsible for
any reclamation necessary to restore the
parcel to a condition acceptable to the Sec-
retary.
(f) MT. MORIAH WILDERNESS, HIGH SCHELLS
WILDERNESS, AND ARC DOME WILDERNESS
BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS.—
(1) AMENDMENTS TO THE PAM WHITE WILDER-
NESS ACT OF 2006.—Section 323 of the Pam
White Wilderness Act of 2006 (16 U.S.C. 1132
note; 120 Stat. 3031) is amended by striking
subsection (e) and inserting the following:
‘‘(e) MT. MORIAH WILDERNESS ADJUST-
MENT.—The boundary of the Mt. Moriah Wil-
derness established under section 2(13) of the
Nevada Wilderness Protection Act of 1989 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note) is adjusted to include—
‘‘(1) the land identified as the ‘Mount
Moriah Wilderness Area’ and ‘Mount Moriah
Additions’ on the map entitled ‘Eastern
White Pine County’ and dated November 29,
2006; and
‘‘(2) the land identified as ‘NFS Lands’ on
the map entitled ‘Proposed Wilderness
Boundary Adjustment Mt. Moriah Wilder-
ness Area’ and dated January 19, 2017.
‘‘(f) HIGH SCHELLS WILDERNESS ADJUST-
MENT.—The boundary of the High Schells
Wilderness established under subsection
(a)(11) is adjusted—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1044 February 7, 2019
‘‘(1) to include the land identified as ‘In-
clude as Wilderness’ on the map entitled
‘McCoy Creek Adjustment’ and dated No-
vember 3, 2014; and
‘‘(2) to exclude the land identified as ‘NFS
Lands’ on the map entitled ‘Proposed Wilder-
ness Boundary Adjustment High Schells Wil-
derness Area’ and dated January 19, 2017.’’.
(2) AMENDMENTS TO THE NEVADA WILDER-
NESS PROTECTION ACT OF 1989.—The Nevada
Wilderness Protection Act of 1989 (Public
Law 101–195; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 12. ARC DOME BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.
‘‘The boundary of the Arc Dome Wilderness
established under section 2(2) is adjusted to
exclude the land identified as ‘Exclude from
Wilderness’ on the map entitled ‘Arc Dome
Adjustment’ and dated November 3, 2014.’’.
SEC. 1117. ASHLEY KARST NATIONAL RECRE-
ATION AND GEOLOGIC AREA.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term ‘‘Man-
agement Plan’’ means the management plan
for the Recreation Area prepared under sub-
section (e)(2)(A).
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Northern Utah Lands Management
Act-Overview’’ and dated February 4, 2019.
(3) RECREATION AREA.—The term ‘‘Recre-
ation Area’’ means the Ashley Karst Na-
tional Recreation and Geologic Area estab-
lished by subsection (b)(1).
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(5) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Utah.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, there is established the Ashley Karst
National Recreation and Geologic Area in
the State.
(2) AREA INCLUDED.—The Recreation Area
shall consist of approximately 173,475 acres
of land in the Ashley National Forest, as
generally depicted on the Map.
(c) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Recre-
ation Area are to conserve and protect the
watershed, geological, recreational, wildlife,
scenic, natural, cultural, and historic re-
sources of the Recreation Area.
(d) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare and submit to the
Committee on Natural Resources and the
Committee on Agriculture of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources of the Senate a
map and legal description of the Recreation
Area.
(2) EFFECT.—The map and legal description
prepared under paragraph (1) shall have the
same force and effect as if included in this
section, except that the Secretary may cor-
rect minor errors in the map or legal descrip-
tion.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—A copy of the map and
legal description prepared under paragraph
(1) shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service.
(e) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Recreation Area in accordance
with—
(A) the laws generally applicable to the
National Forest System, including the For-
est and Rangeland Renewable Resources
Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600 et seq.);
(B) this section; and
(C) any other applicable law.
(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare a management plan
for the Recreation Area.
(B) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary shall—
(i) prepare the management plan in con-
sultation and coordination with Uintah
County, Utah, and affected Indian Tribes;
and
(ii) provide for public input in the prepara-
tion of the management plan.
(f) USES.—The Secretary shall only allow
such uses of the Recreation Area that
would—
(1) further the purposes for which the
Recreation Area is established; and
(2) promote the long-term protection and
management of the watershed and under-
ground karst system of the Recreation Area.
(g) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as needed for
emergency response or administrative pur-
poses, the use of motorized vehicles in the
Recreation Area shall be permitted only on
roads and motorized routes designated in the
Management Plan for the use of motorized
vehicles.
(2) NEW ROADS.—No new permanent or tem-
porary roads or other motorized vehicle
routes shall be constructed within the Recre-
ation Area after the date of enactment of
this Act.
(3) EXISTING ROADS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Necessary maintenance
or repairs to existing roads designated in the
Management Plan for the use of motorized
vehicles, including necessary repairs to keep
existing roads free of debris or other safety
hazards, shall be permitted after the date of
enactment of this Act, consistent with the
requirements of this section.
(B) REROUTING.—Nothing in this subsection
prevents the Secretary from rerouting an ex-
isting road or trail to protect Recreation
Area resources from degradation, or to pro-
tect public safety, as determined to be appro-
priate by the Secretary.
(4) OVER SNOW VEHICLES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
prohibits the use of snowmobiles and other
over snow vehicles within the Recreation
Area.
(B) WINTER RECREATION USE PLAN.—Not
later than 2 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary shall under-
take a winter recreation use planning proc-
ess, which shall include opportunities for use
by snowmobiles or other over snow vehicles
in appropriate areas of the Recreation Area.
(5) APPLICABLE LAW.—Activities authorized
under this subsection shall be consistent
with the applicable forest plan and travel
management plan for, and any law (including
regulations) applicable to, the Ashley Na-
tional Forest.
(h) WATER INFRASTRUCTURE.—
(1) EXISTING ACCESS.—The designation of
the Recreation Area shall not affect the abil-
ity of authorized users to access, operate,
and maintain water infrastructure facilities
within the Recreation Area in accordance
with applicable authorizations and permits.
(2) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into a cooperative agreement with
authorized users and local governmental en-
tities to provide, in accordance with any ap-
plicable law (including regulations)—
(i) access, including motorized access, for
repair and maintenance to water infrastruc-
ture facilities within the Recreation Area,
including Whiterocks Reservoir, subject to
such terms and conditions as the Secretary
determines to be necessary; and
(ii) access and maintenance by authorized
users and local governmental entities for the
continued delivery of water to the Ashley
Valley if water flows cease or become dimin-
ished due to impairment of the karst system,
subject to such terms and conditions as the
Secretary determines to be necessary.
(i) GRAZING.—The grazing of livestock in
the Recreation Area, where established be-
fore the date of enactment of this Act, shall
be allowed to continue, subject to such rea-
sonable regulations, policies, and practices
as the Secretary considers to be necessary in
accordance with—
(1) applicable law (including regulations);
(2) the purposes of the Recreation Area;
and
(3) the guidelines set forth in the report of
the Committee on Interior and Insular Af-
fairs of the House of Representatives accom-
panying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H.
Rept. 96–617).
(j) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
section affects the jurisdiction of the State
with respect to the management of fish and
wildlife on Federal land in the State.
(k) WILDLIFE WATER PROJECTS.—The Sec-
retary, in consultation with the State, may
authorize wildlife water projects (including
guzzlers) within the Recreation Area.
(l) WATER RIGHTS.—Nothing in this sec-
tion—
(1) constitutes an express or implied res-
ervation by the United States of any water
rights with respect to the Recreation Area;
(2) affects any water rights in the State;
(3) affects the use or allocation, in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this Act, of
any water, water right, or interest in water;
(4) affects any vested absolute or decreed
conditional water right in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act, including any
water right held by the United States;
(5) affects any interstate water compact in
existence on the date of enactment of this
Act; or
(6) shall be considered to be a relinquish-
ment or reduction of any water rights re-
served or appropriated by the United States
in the State on or before the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(m) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, all Federal land in the Recreation
Area is withdrawn from—
(1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and
disposal under the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(n) VEGETATION MANAGEMENT.—Nothing in
this section prevents the Secretary from
conducting vegetation management projects,
including fuels reduction activities, within
the Recreation Area for the purposes of im-
proving water quality and reducing risks
from wildfire.
(o) WILDLAND FIRE OPERATIONS.—Nothing
in this section prohibits the Secretary, in
consultation with other Federal, State,
local, and Tribal agencies, as appropriate,
from conducting wildland fire treatment op-
erations or restoration operations in the
Recreation Area, consistent with the pur-
poses of this section.
(p) RECREATION FEES.—Except for fees for
improved campgrounds, the Secretary is pro-
hibited from collecting recreation entrance
or recreation use fees within the Recreation
Area.
(q) COMMUNICATION INFRASTRUCTURE.—
Nothing in this section affects the continued
use of, and access to, communication infra-
structure (including necessary upgrades)
within the Recreation Area, in accordance
with applicable authorizations and permits.
(r) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section af-
fects non-Federal land or interests in non-
Federal land within the Recreation Area.
(2) ACCESS.—The Secretary shall provide
reasonable access to non-Federal land or in-
terests in non-Federal land within the Recre-
ation Area.
(s) OUTFITTING AND GUIDE ACTIVITIES.—
Outfitting and guide services within the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1045
February 7, 2019
Recreation Area, including commercial out-
fitting and guide services, are authorized in
accordance with this section and other appli-
cable law (including regulations).
SEC. 1118. JOHN WESLEY POWELL NATIONAL
CONSERVATION AREA.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the Bu-
reau of Land Management map entitled
‘‘Proposed John Wesley Powell National
Conservation Area’’ and dated December 10,
2018.
(2) NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA.—The
term ‘‘National Conservation Area’’ means
the John Wesley Powell National Conserva-
tion Area established by subsection (b)(1).
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, there is established the John Wesley
Powell National Conservation Area in the
State of Utah.
(2) AREA INCLUDED.—The National Con-
servation Area shall consist of approxi-
mately 29,868 acres of public land adminis-
tered by the Bureau of Land Management as
generally depicted on the Map.
(c) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Na-
tional Conservation Area are to conserve,
protect, and enhance for the benefit of
present and future generations the nation-
ally significant historic, cultural, natural,
scientific, scenic, recreational, archae-
ological, educational, and wildlife resources
of the National Conservation Area.
(d) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare and file a map and
legal description of the National Conserva-
tion Area with the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources of the Senate and the
Committee on Natural Resources of the
House of Representatives.
(2) EFFECT.—The map and legal description
prepared under paragraph (1) shall have the
same force and effect as if included in this
section, except that the Secretary may cor-
rect minor errors in the map or legal descrip-
tion.
(3) AVAILABILITY.—A copy of the map and
legal description shall be on file and avail-
able for public inspection in the appropriate
offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
(e) MANAGEMENT.—The Secretary shall
manage the National Conservation Area—
(1) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the resources of the National
Conservation Area;
(2) in accordance with—
(A) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
(B) this section; and
(C) any other applicable law; and
(3) as a component of the National Land-
scape Conservation System.
(4) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall develop a management plan
for the National Conservation Area.
(B) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary shall
prepare the management plan—
(i) in consultation and coordination with
the State of Utah, Uintah County, and af-
fected Indian Tribes; and
(ii) after providing for public input.
(f) USES.—The Secretary shall only allow
such uses of the National Conservation Area
as the Secretary determines would further
the purposes for which the National Con-
servation is established.
(g) ACQUISITION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may ac-
quire land or interests in land within the
boundaries of the National Conservation
Area by purchase from a willing seller, dona-
tion, or exchange.
(2) INCORPORATION IN NATIONAL CONSERVA-
TION AREA.—Any land or interest in land lo-
cated inside the boundary of the National
Conservation Area that is acquired by the
United States after the date of enactment of
this Act shall be added to and administered
as part of the National Conservation Area.
(3) STATE LAND.—On request of the Utah
School and Institutional Trust Lands Ad-
ministration and, if practicable, not later
than 5 years after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall seek to acquire
all State-owned land within the boundaries
of the National Conservation Area by ex-
change or purchase, subject to the appropria-
tion of necessary funds.
(h) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
except in cases in which motorized vehicles
are needed for administrative purposes or to
respond to an emergency, the use of motor-
ized vehicles in the National Conservation
Area shall be permitted only on roads des-
ignated in the management plan.
(2) USE OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES PRIOR TO
COMPLETION OF MANAGEMENT PLAN.—Prior to
completion of the management plan, the use
of motorized vehicles within the National
Conservation Area shall be permitted in ac-
cordance with the applicable Bureau of Land
Management resource management plan.
(i) GRAZING.—The grazing of livestock in
the National Conservation Area, where es-
tablished before the date of enactment of
this Act, shall be allowed to continue, sub-
ject to such reasonable regulations, policies,
and practices as the Secretary considers to
be necessary in accordance with—
(1) applicable law (including regulations);
(2) the purposes of the National Conserva-
tion Area; and
(3) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A
of the report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs of the House of Rep-
resentatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the
101st Congress (House Report 101–405).
(j) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
section affects the jurisdiction of the State
of Utah with respect to the management of
fish and wildlife on Federal land in the
State.
(k) WILDLIFE WATER PROJECTS.—The Sec-
retary, in consultation with the State of
Utah, may authorize wildlife water projects
(including guzzlers) within the National Con-
servation Area.
(l) GREATER SAGE-GROUSE CONSERVATION
PROJECTS.—Nothing in this section affects
the authority of the Secretary to undertake
Greater sage-grouse (Centrocercus
urophasianus) conservation projects to main-
tain and improve Greater sage-grouse habi-
tat, including the management of vegetation
through mechanical means, to further the
purposes of the National Conservation Area.
(m) WATER RIGHTS.—Nothing in this sec-
tion—
(1) constitutes an express or implied res-
ervation by the United States of any water
rights with respect to the National Con-
servation Area;
(2) affects any water rights in the State;
(3) affects the use or allocation, in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this Act, of
any water, water right, or interest in water;
(4) affects any vested absolute or decreed
conditional water right in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act, including any
water right held by the United States;
(5) affects any interstate water compact in
existence on the date of enactment of this
Act; or
(6) shall be considered to be a relinquish-
ment or reduction of any water rights re-
served or appropriated by the United States
in the State on or before the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(n) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the National Conservation Area.
(2) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE NATIONAL CONSERVA-
TION AREA.—The fact that an authorized ac-
tivity or use on land outside the National
Conservation Area can be seen or heard with-
in the National Conservation Area shall not
preclude the activity or use outside the
boundary of the Area.
(o) WITHDRAWAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, all Federal land in the National Con-
servation Area (including any land acquired
after the date of enactment of this Act) is
withdrawn from—
(A) all forms of entry, appropriation, and
disposal under the public land laws;
(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(C) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(p) VEGETATION MANAGEMENT.—Nothing in
this section prevents the Secretary from
conducting vegetation management projects,
including fuels reduction activities, within
the National Conservation Area that are
consistent with this section and that further
the purposes of the National Conservation
Area.
(q) WILDLAND FIRE OPERATIONS.—Nothing
in this section prohibits the Secretary, in
consultation with other Federal, State,
local, and Tribal agencies, as appropriate,
from conducting wildland fire prevention
and restoration operations in the National
Conservation Area, consistent with the pur-
poses of this section.
(r) RECREATION FEES.—Except for improved
campgrounds, the Secretary is prohibited
from collecting recreation entrance or use
fees within the National Conservation Area.
(s) OUTFITTING AND GUIDE ACTIVITIES.—
Outfitting and guide services within the Na-
tional Conservation Area, including commer-
cial outfitting and guide services, are au-
thorized in accordance with this section and
other applicable law (including regulations).
(t) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section af-
fects non-Federal land or interests in non-
Federal land within the National Conserva-
tion Area.
(2) REASONABLE ACCESS.—The Secretary
shall provide reasonable access to non-Fed-
eral land or interests in non-Federal land
within the National Conservation Area.
(u) RESEARCH AND INTERPRETIVE MANAGE-
MENT.—The Secretary may establish pro-
grams and projects for the conduct of sci-
entific, historical, cultural, archeological,
and natural studies through the use of public
and private partnerships that further the
purposes of the National Conservation Area.
SEC. 1119. ALASKA NATIVE VIETNAM ERA VET-
ERANS LAND ALLOTMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AVAILABLE FEDERAL LAND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘available Fed-
eral land’’ means Federal land in the State
that—
(i) is vacant, unappropriated, and unre-
served and is identified as available for selec-
tion under subsection (b)(5); or
(ii) has been selected by, but not yet con-
veyed to—
(I) the State, if the State agrees to volun-
tarily relinquish the selection of the Federal
land for selection by an eligible individual;
or
(II) a Regional Corporation or a Village
Corporation, if the Regional Corporation or
Village Corporation agrees to voluntarily re-
linquish the selection of the Federal land for
selection by an eligible individual.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘available Fed-
eral land’’ does not include any Federal land
in the State that is—
(i)(I) a right-of-way of the TransAlaska
Pipeline; or
(II) an inner or outer corridor of such a
right-of-way;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1046 February 7, 2019
(ii) withdrawn or acquired for purposes of
the Armed Forces;
(iii) under review for a pending right-of-
way for a natural gas corridor;
(iv) within the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge;
(v) within a unit of the National Forest
System;
(vi) designated as wilderness by Congress;
(vii) within a unit of the National Park
System, a National Preserve, or a National
Monument;
(viii) within a component of the National
Trails System;
(ix) within a component of the National
Wild and Scenic Rivers System; or
(x) within the National Petroleum Re-
serve–Alaska.
(2) ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUAL.—The term ‘‘eligi-
ble individual’’ means an individual who, as
determined by the Secretary in accordance
with subsection (c)(1), is—
(A) a Native veteran—
(i) who served in the Armed Forces during
the period between August 5, 1964, and De-
cember 31, 1971; and
(ii) has not received an allotment made
pursuant to—
(I) the Act of May 17, 1906 (34 Stat. 197,
chapter 2469) (as in effect on December 17,
1971);
(II) section 14(h)(5) of the Alaska Native
Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(h)(5));
or
(III) section 41 of the Alaska Native Claims
Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1629g); or
(B) is the personal representative of the es-
tate of a deceased eligible individual de-
scribed in subparagraph (A), who has been
duly appointed in the appropriate Alaska
State court or a registrar has qualified, act-
ing for the benefit of the heirs of the estate
of a deceased eligible individual described in
subparagraph (A).
(3) NATIVE; REGIONAL CORPORATION; VILLAGE
CORPORATION.—The terms ‘‘Native’’, ‘‘Re-
gional Corporation’’, and ‘‘Village Corpora-
tion’’ have the meanings given those terms
in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Set-
tlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602).
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Alaska.
(5) VETERAN.—The term ‘‘veteran’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 101 of
title 38, United States Code.
(b) ALLOTMENTS FOR ELIGIBLE INDIVID-
UALS.—
(1) INFORMATION TO DETERMINE ELIGI-
BILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Defense, in coordination with
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall pro-
vide to the Secretary a list of all members of
the Armed Forces who served during the pe-
riod between August 5, 1964, and December
31, 1971.
(B) USE.—The Secretary shall use the in-
formation provided under subparagraph (A)
to determine whether an individual meets
the military service requirements under sub-
section (a)(2)(A)(i).
(C) OUTREACH AND ASSISTANCE.—The Sec-
retary, in coordination with the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs, shall conduct outreach,
and provide assistance in applying for allot-
ments, to eligible individuals.
(2) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 18
months after the date of enactment of this
section, the Secretary shall promulgate reg-
ulations to carry out this subsection.
(3) SELECTION BY ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—An eligible individual—
(i) may select 1 parcel of not less than 2.5
acres and not more than 160 acres of avail-
able Federal land; and
(ii) on making a selection pursuant to
clause (i), shall submit to the Secretary an
allotment selection application for the appli-
cable parcel of available Federal land.
(B) SELECTION PERIOD.—An eligible indi-
vidual may apply for an allotment during
the 5-year period beginning on the effective
date of the final regulations issued under
paragraph (2).
(4) CONFLICTING SELECTIONS.—If 2 or more
eligible individuals submit to the Secretary
an allotment selection application under
paragraph (3)(A)(ii) for the same parcel of
available Federal land, the Secretary shall—
(A) give preference to the selection appli-
cation received on the earliest date; and
(B) provide to each eligible individual the
selection application of whom is rejected
under subparagraph (A) an opportunity to se-
lect a substitute parcel of available Federal
land.
(5) IDENTIFICATION OF AVAILABLE FEDERAL
LAND ADMINISTERED BY THE BUREAU OF LAND
MANAGEMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary, in consultation with the State,
Regional Corporations, and Village Corpora-
tions, shall identify Federal land adminis-
tered by the Bureau of Land Management as
available Federal land for allotment selec-
tion in the State by eligible individuals.
(B) CERTIFICATION; SURVEY.—The Secretary
shall—
(i) certify that the available Federal land
identified under subparagraph (A) is free of
known contamination; and
(ii) survey the available Federal land iden-
tified under subparagraph (A) into aliquot
parts and lots, segregating all navigable and
meanderable waters and land not available
for allotment selection.
(C) MAPS.—As soon as practicable after the
date on which available Federal land is iden-
tified under subparagraph (A), the Secretary
shall submit to Congress, and publish in the
Federal Register, 1 or more maps depicting
the identified available Federal land.
(D) CONVEYANCES.—Any available Federal
land conveyed to an eligible individual under
this paragraph shall be subject to—
(i) valid existing rights; and
(ii) the reservation of minerals to the
United States.
(E) INTENT OF CONGRESS.—It is the intent of
Congress that not later than 1 year after the
date on which an eligible individual submits
an allotment selection application for avail-
able Federal land that meets the require-
ments of this section, as determined by the
Secretary, the Secretary shall issue to the
eligible individual a certificate of allotment
with respect to the available Federal land
covered by the allotment selection applica-
tion, subject to the requirements of subpara-
graph (D).
(c) IDENTIFICATION OF AVAILABLE FEDERAL
LAND IN UNITS OF THE NATIONAL WILDLIFE
REFUGE SYSTEM.—
(1) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall—
(A) conduct a study to determine whether
any additional Federal lands within units of
the National Wildlife Refuge System in the
State should be made available for allotment
selection; and
(B) report the findings and conclusions of
the study to Congress.
(2) CONTENT OF THE REPORT.—The Sec-
retary shall include in the report required
under paragraph (1)—
(A) the Secretary’s determination whether
Federal lands within units of the National
Wildlife Refuge System in the State should
be made available for allotment selection by
eligible individuals; and
(B) identification of the specific areas (in-
cluding maps) within units of the National
Wildlife Refuge System in the State that the
Secretary determines should be made avail-
able, consistent with the mission of the Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge System and the spe-
cific purposes for which the unit was estab-
lished, and this subsection.
(3) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.—In deter-
mining whether Federal lands within units
of the National Wildlife Refuge System in
the State should be made available under
paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall take
into account—
(A) the proximity of the Federal land made
available for allotment selection under sub-
section (b)(5) to eligible individuals;
(B) the proximity of the units of the Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge System in the State
to eligible individuals; and
(C) the amount of additional Federal land
within units of the National Wildlife Refuge
System in the State that the Secretary esti-
mates would be necessary to make allot-
ments available for selection by eligible indi-
viduals.
(4) IDENTIFYING FEDERAL LAND IN UNITS OF
THE NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE SYSTEM.—In
identifying whether Federal lands within
units of the National Wildlife Refuge System
in the State should be made available for al-
lotment under paragraph (2)(B), the Sec-
retary shall not identify any Federal land in
a unit of the National Wildlife Refuge Sys-
tem—
(A) the conveyance of which, independ-
ently or as part of a group of allotments—
(i) could significantly interfere with bio-
logical, physical, cultural, scenic, rec-
reational, natural quiet, or subsistence val-
ues of the unit of the National Wildlife Ref-
uge System;
(ii) could obstruct access by the public or
the Fish and Wildlife Service to the resource
values of the unit;
(iii) could trigger development or future
uses in an area that would adversely affect
resource values of the surrounding National
Wildlife Refuge System land;
(iv) could open an area of a unit to new ac-
cess and uses that adversely affect resources
values of the unit; or
(v) could interfere with the management
plan of the unit;
(B) that is located within 300 feet from the
shore of a navigable water body;
(C) that is not consistent with the purposes
for which the unit of the National Wildlife
Refuge System was established;
(D) that is designated as wilderness by
Congress; or
(E) that is within the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge.
(d) LIMITATION.—No Federal land may be
identified for selection or made available for
allotment within a unit of the National
Wildlife Refuge System unless it has been
authorized by an Act of Congress subsequent
to the date of enactment of this Act. Fur-
ther, any proposed conveyance of land within
a unit of the National Wildlife Refuge Sys-
tem must have been identified by the Sec-
retary in accordance with subsection (c)(4) in
the report to Congress required by sub-
section (c) and include patent provisions
that the land remains subject to the laws
and regulations governing the use and devel-
opment of the Refuge.
SEC. 1120. RED RIVER GRADIENT BOUNDARY
SURVEY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AFFECTED AREA.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘affected area’’
means land along the approximately 116-mile
stretch of the Red River, from its confluence
with the north fork of the Red River on the
west to the 98th meridian on the east.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘affected area’’
does not include the portion of the Red River
within the boundary depicted on the survey
prepared by the Bureau of Land Management
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1047
February 7, 2019
entitled ‘‘Township 5 South, Range 14 West,
of the Indian Meridian, Oklahoma, Depend-
ent Resurvey and Survey’’ and dated Feb-
ruary 28, 2006.
(2) GRADIENT BOUNDARY SURVEY METHOD.—
The term ‘‘gradient boundary survey meth-
od’’ means the measurement technique used
to locate the South Bank boundary line in
accordance with the methodology estab-
lished in Oklahoma v. Texas, 261 U.S. 340
(1923) (recognizing that the boundary line
along the Red River is subject to change due
to erosion and accretion).
(3) LANDOWNER.—The term ‘‘landowner’’
means any individual, group, association,
corporation, federally recognized Indian
tribe or member of such an Indian tribe, or
other private or governmental legal entity
that owns an interest in land in the affected
area.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the Bureau of Land Management.
(5) SOUTH BANK.—The term ‘‘South Bank’’
means the water-washed and relatively per-
manent elevation or acclivity (commonly
known as a ‘‘cut bank’’) along the southerly
or right side of the Red River that—
(A) separates the bed of that river from the
adjacent upland, whether valley or hill; and
(B) usually serves, as specified in the fifth
paragraph of Oklahoma v. Texas, 261 U.S. 340
(1923)—
(i) to confine the waters within the bed;
and
(ii) to preserve the course of the river.
(6) SOUTH BANK BOUNDARY LINE.—The term
‘‘South Bank boundary line’’ means the
boundary, with respect to title and owner-
ship, between the States of Oklahoma and
Texas identified through the gradient bound-
ary survey method that does not impact or
alter the permanent political boundary line
between the States along the Red River, as
outlined under article II, section B of the
Red River Boundary Compact enacted by the
States and consented to by Congress pursu-
ant to Public Law 106–288 (114 Stat. 919).
(b) SURVEY OF SOUTH BANK BOUNDARY
LINE.—
(1) SURVEY REQUIRED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall com-
mission a survey to identify the South Bank
boundary line in the affected area.
(B) REQUIREMENTS.—The survey shall—
(i) adhere to the gradient boundary survey
method;
(ii) span the length of the affected area;
(iii) be conducted by 1 or more independent
third-party surveyors that are—
(I) licensed and qualified to conduct offi-
cial gradient boundary surveys; and
(II) selected by the Secretary, in consulta-
tion with—
(aa) the Texas General Land Office;
(bb) the Oklahoma Commissioners of the
Land Office, in consultation with the attor-
ney general of the State of Oklahoma; and
(cc) each affected federally recognized In-
dian Tribe; and
(iv) subject to the availability of appro-
priations, be completed not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(2) APPROVAL OF THE BOUNDARY SURVEY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date on which the survey or a por-
tion of the survey under paragraph (1)(A) is
completed, the Secretary shall submit the
survey for approval to—
(i) the Texas General Land Office;
(ii) the Oklahoma Commissioners of the
Land Office, in consultation with the attor-
ney general of the State of Oklahoma; and
(iii) each affected federally recognized In-
dian Tribe.
(B) TIMING OF APPROVAL.—Not later than 60
days after the date on which each of the
Texas General Land Office, the Oklahoma
Commissioners of the Land Office, in con-
sultation with the attorney general of the
State of Oklahoma, and each affected feder-
ally recognized Indian Tribe notify the Sec-
retary of the approval of the boundary sur-
vey or a portion of the survey by the applica-
ble office or federally recognized Indian
Tribe, the Secretary shall determine whether
to approve the survey or portion of the sur-
vey, subject to subparagraph (D).
(C) SUBMISSION OF PORTIONS OF SURVEY FOR
APPROVAL.—As portions of the survey are
completed, the Secretary may submit the
completed portions of the survey for ap-
proval under subparagraph (A).
(D) WRITTEN APPROVAL.—The Secretary
shall only approve the survey, or a portion of
the survey, that has the written approval of
each of—
(i) the Texas General Land Office;
(ii) the Oklahoma Commissioners of the
Land Office, in consultation with the attor-
ney general of the State of Oklahoma; and
(iii) each affected federally recognized In-
dian Tribe.
(c) SURVEY OF INDIVIDUAL PARCELS.—Sur-
veys of individual parcels in the affected
area shall be conducted in accordance with
the boundary survey approved under sub-
section (b)(2).
(d) NOTICE AND AVAILABILITY OF SURVEY.—
Not later than 60 days after the date on
which the boundary survey is approved under
subsection (b)(2), the Secretary shall—
(1) publish notice of the approval of the
survey in—
(A) the Federal Register; and
(B) 1 or more local newspapers; and
(2) on request, furnish to any landowner a
copy of—
(A) the survey; and
(B) any field notes relating to—
(i) the individual parcel of the landowner;
or
(ii) any individual parcel adjacent to the
individual parcel of the landowner.
(e) EFFECT OF SECTION.—Nothing in this
section—
(1) modifies any interest of the State of
Oklahoma or Texas, or the sovereignty,
property, or trust rights of any federally rec-
ognized Indian Tribe, relating to land lo-
cated north of the South Bank boundary
line, as established by the survey;
(2) modifies any land patented under the
Act of December 22, 1928 (45 Stat. 1069, chap-
ter 47; 43 U.S.C. 1068) (commonly known as
the ‘‘Color of Title Act’’), before the date of
enactment of this Act;
(3) modifies or supersedes the Red River
Boundary Compact enacted by the States of
Oklahoma and Texas and consented to by
Congress pursuant to Public Law 106–288 (114
Stat. 919);
(4) creates or reinstates any Indian res-
ervation or any portion of such a reserva-
tion;
(5) modifies any interest or any property or
trust rights of any individual Indian allot-
tee; or
(6) alters any valid right of the State of
Oklahoma or the Kiowa, Comanche, or
Apache Indian tribes to the mineral interest
trust fund established under the Act of June
12, 1926 (44 Stat. 740, chapter 572).
(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Secretary to carry out this section $1,000,000.
SEC. 1121. SAN JUAN COUNTY SETTLEMENT IM-
PLEMENTATION.
(a) EXCHANGE OF COAL PREFERENCE RIGHT
LEASE APPLICATIONS.—
(1) DEFINITION OF BIDDING RIGHT.—In this
subsection, the term ‘‘bidding right’’ means
an appropriate legal instrument or other
written documentation, including an entry
in an account managed by the Secretary,
issued or created under subpart 3435 of title
43, Code of Federal Regulations, that may be
used—
(A) in lieu of a monetary payment for 50
percent of a bonus bid for a coal lease sale
under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181
et seq.); or
(B) as a monetary credit against 50 percent
of any rental or royalty payments due under
any Federal coal lease.
(2) USE OF BIDDING RIGHT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary retires a
coal preference right lease application under
the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et
seq.) by issuing a bidding right in exchange
for the relinquishment of the coal preference
right lease application, the bidding right
subsequently may be used in lieu of 50 per-
cent of the amount owed for any monetary
payment of—
(i) a bonus in a coal lease sale; or
(ii) rental or royalty under a Federal coal
lease.
(B) PAYMENT CALCULATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall cal-
culate a payment of amounts owed to a rel-
evant State under section 35(a) of the Min-
eral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191(a)) based on
the combined value of the bidding rights and
amounts received.
(ii) AMOUNTS RECEIVED.—Except as pro-
vided in this paragraph, for purposes of cal-
culating the payment of amounts owed to a
relevant State under clause (i) only, a bid-
ding right shall be considered amounts re-
ceived.
(C) REQUIREMENT.—The total number of
bidding rights issued by the Secretary under
subparagraph (A) before October 1, 2029, shall
not exceed the number of bidding rights that
reflect a value equivalent to $67,000,000.
(3) SOURCE OF PAYMENTS.—The Secretary
shall make payments to the relevant State
under paragraph (2) from monetary pay-
ments received by the Secretary when bid-
ding rights are exercised under this section.
(4) TREATMENT OF PAYMENTS.—A payment
to a State under this subsection shall be
treated as a payment under section 35(a) of
the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191(a)).
(5) TRANSFERABILITY; LIMITATION.—
(A) TRANSFERABILITY.—A bidding right
issued for a coal preference right lease appli-
cation under the Mineral Leasing Act (30
U.S.C. 181 et seq.) shall be fully transferable
to any other person.
(B) NOTIFICATION OF SECRETARY.—A person
who transfers a bidding right shall notify the
Secretary of the transfer by any method de-
termined to be appropriate by the Secretary.
(C) EFFECTIVE PERIOD.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—A bidding right issued
under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181
et seq.) shall terminate on the expiration of
the 7-year period beginning on the date the
bidding right is issued.
(ii) TOLLING OF PERIOD.—The 7-year period
described in clause (i) shall be tolled during
any period in which exercise of the bidding
right is precluded by temporary injunctive
relief granted under, or administrative, leg-
islative, or judicial suspension of, the Fed-
eral coal leasing program.
(6) DEADLINE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If an existing settlement
of a coal preference right lease application
has not been implemented as of the date of
enactment of this Act, not later than 180
days after that date of enactment, the Sec-
retary shall complete the bidding rights
valuation process in accordance with the
terms of the settlement.
(B) DATE OF VALUATION.—For purposes of
the valuation process under subparagraph
(A), the market price of coal shall be deter-
mined as of the date of the settlement.
(b) CERTAIN LAND SELECTIONS OF THE NAV-
AJO NATION.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1048 February 7, 2019
(1) CANCELLATION OF CERTAIN SELECTIONS.—
The land selections made by the Navajo Na-
tion pursuant to Public Law 93–531 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Navajo-Hopi Land Set-
tlement Act of 1974’’) (88 Stat. 1712) that are
depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Navajo-Hopi
Land Settlement Act Selected Lands’’ and
dated April 2, 2015, are cancelled.
(2) AUTHORIZATION FOR NEW SELECTION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs
(B), (C), and (D) and paragraph (3), the Nav-
ajo Nation may make new land selections in
accordance with the Act referred to in para-
graph (1) to replace the land selections can-
celled under that paragraph.
(B) ACREAGE CAP.—The total acreage of
land selected under subparagraph (A) shall
not exceed 15,000 acres of land.
(C) EXCLUSIONS.—The following land shall
not be eligible for selection under subpara-
graph (A):
(i) Land within a unit of the National
Landscape Conservation System.
(ii) Land within—
(I) the Glade Run Recreation Area;
(II) the Fossil Forest Research Natural
Area; or
(III) a special management area or area of
critical environmental concern identified in
a land use plan developed under section 202
of the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712) that is in effect on
the date of enactment of this Act.
(iii) Any land subject to a lease or contract
under the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181
et seq.) or the Act of July 31, 1947 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Materials Act of 1947’’) (30
U.S.C. 601 et seq.) as of the date of the selec-
tion.
(iv) Land not under the jurisdiction of the
Bureau of Land Management.
(v) Land identified as ‘‘Parcels Excluded
from Selection’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Par-
cels excluded for selection under the San
Juan County Settlement Implementation
Act’’ and dated December 14, 2018.
(D) DEADLINE.—Not later than 7 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Nav-
ajo Nation shall make all selections under
subparagraph (A).
(E) WITHDRAWAL.—Any land selected by
the Navajo Nation under subparagraph (A)
shall be withdrawn from disposal, leasing,
and development until the date on which the
selected land is placed into trust for the Nav-
ajo Nation.
(3) EQUAL VALUE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the
acreage limitation in the second proviso of
section 11(c) of Public Law 93–531 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Navajo-Hopi Land Settlement
Act of 1974’’) (25 U.S.C. 640d–10(c)) and sub-
ject to paragraph (2)(B), the value of the land
selected under paragraph (2)(A) and the land
subject to selections cancellation under
paragraph (1) shall be equal, based on ap-
praisals conducted under subparagraph (B).
(B) APPRAISALS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The value of the land se-
lected under paragraph (2)(A) and the land
subject to selections cancelled under para-
graph (1) shall be determined by appraisals
conducted in accordance with—
(I) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(II) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(ii) TIMING.—
(I) LAND SUBJECT TO SELECTIONS CAN-
CELLED.—Not later than 18 months after the
date of enactment of this Act, the appraisal
under clause (i) of the land subject to selec-
tions cancelled under paragraph (1) shall be
completed.
(II) NEW SELECTIONS.—The appraisals under
clause (i) of the land selected under para-
graph (2)(A) shall be completed as the Navajo
Nation finalizes those land selections.
(4) BOUNDARY.—For purposes of this sub-
section and the Act referred to in paragraph
(1), the present boundary of the Navajo Res-
ervation is depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Navajo Nation Boundary’’ and dated No-
vember 16, 2015.
(c) DESIGNATION OF AH-SHI-SLE-PAH WIL-
DERNESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
approximately 7,242 acres of land as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘San
Juan County Wilderness Designations’’ and
dated April 2, 2015, is designated as wilder-
ness and as a component of the National Wil-
derness Preservation System, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Ah-shi-sle-pah Wilderness’’
(referred to in this subsection as the ‘‘Wil-
derness’’).
(2) MANAGEMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the Wilderness shall be administered
by the Director of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement in accordance with this subsection
and the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), except that any reference in that Act
to the effective date of that Act shall be con-
sidered to be a reference to the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(B) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Congress does not intend
for the designation of the Wilderness to cre-
ate a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the Wilderness.
(ii) NONWILDERNESS ACTIVITIES.—The fact
that nonwilderness activities or uses can be
seen or heard from areas within the Wilder-
ness shall not preclude the conduct of the ac-
tivities or uses outside the boundary of the
Wilderness.
(C) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS IN LAND.—Any land or interest in
land that is within the boundary of the Wil-
derness that is acquired by the United States
shall—
(i) become part of the Wilderness; and
(ii) be managed in accordance with—
(I) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.);
(II) this subsection; and
(III) any other applicable laws.
(D) GRAZING.—Grazing of livestock in the
Wilderness, where established before the
date of enactment of this Act, shall be al-
lowed to continue in accordance with—
(i) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(ii) the guidelines set forth in the report of
the Committee on Interior and Insular Af-
fairs of the House of Representatives accom-
panying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H.
Rept. 96–617).
(3) RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS.—
Congress finds that, for the purposes of sec-
tion 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)),
the land within the Ah-shi-sle-pah Wilder-
ness Study Area not designated as wilderness
by this subsection has been adequately stud-
ied for wilderness designation and is no
longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1782(c)).
(d) EXPANSION OF BISTI/DE-NA-ZIN WILDER-
NESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is designated as wil-
derness and as a component of the National
Wilderness Preservation System certain Fed-
eral land comprising approximately 2,250
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘San Juan County Wilderness Designa-
tions’’ and dated April 2, 2015, which is incor-
porated in and shall be considered to be a
part of the Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wilderness.
(2) ADMINISTRATION.—Subject to valid ex-
isting rights, the land designated as wilder-
ness by paragraph (1) shall be administered
by the Director of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement (referred to in this subsection as
the ‘‘Director’’), in accordance with—
(A) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), except that any reference in that Act
to the effective date of that Act shall be con-
sidered to be a reference to the date of enact-
ment of this Act; and
(B) the San Juan Basin Wilderness Protec-
tion Act of 1984 (Public Law 98–603; 98 Stat.
3155; 110 Stat. 4211).
(3) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Congress does not intend
for the designation of the land as wilderness
by paragraph (1) to create a protective pe-
rimeter or buffer zone around that land.
(B) NONWILDERNESS ACTIVITIES.—The fact
that nonwilderness activities or uses can be
seen or heard from areas within the land des-
ignated as wilderness by paragraph (1) shall
not preclude the conduct of the activities or
uses outside the boundary of that land.
(4) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS IN LAND.—Any land or interest in
land that is within the boundary of the land
designated as wilderness by paragraph (1)
that is acquired by the United States shall—
(A) become part of the Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wil-
derness; and
(B) be managed in accordance with—
(i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.);
(ii) the San Juan Basin Wilderness Protec-
tion Act of 1984 (Public Law 98–603; 98 Stat.
3155; 110 Stat. 4211);
(iii) this subsection; and
(iv) any other applicable laws.
(5) GRAZING.—Grazing of livestock in the
land designated as wilderness by paragraph
(1), where established before the date of en-
actment of this Act, shall be allowed to con-
tinue in accordance with—
(A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(B) the guidelines set forth in the report of
the Committee on Interior and Insular Af-
fairs of the House of Representatives accom-
panying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H.
Rept. 96–617).
(e) ROAD MAINTENANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the Secretary, acting through the Director
of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, shall ensure
that L–54 between I–40 and Alamo, New Mex-
ico, is maintained in a condition that is safe
for motorized use.
(2) USE OF FUNDS.—In carrying out para-
graph (1), the Secretary and the Director of
the Bureau of Indian Affairs may not require
any Indian Tribe to use any funds—
(A) owned by the Indian Tribe; or
(B) provided to the Indian Tribe pursuant
to a contract under the Indian Self-Deter-
mination and Education Assistance Act (25
U.S.C. 5304 et seq.).
(3) ROAD UPGRADE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this sub-
section requires the Secretary or any Indian
Tribe to upgrade the condition of L–54 as of
the date of enactment of this Act.
(B) WRITTEN AGREEMENT.—An upgrade to
L–54 may not be made without the written
agreement of the Pueblo of Laguna.
(4) INVENTORY.—Nothing in this subsection
requires L–54 to be placed on the National
Tribal Transportation Facility Inventory.
SEC. 1122. RIO PUERCO WATERSHED MANAGE-
MENT PROGRAM.
(a) REAUTHORIZATION OF THE RIO PUERCO
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE.—Section 401(b)(4)
of division I of the Omnibus Parks and Pub-
lic Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public
Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4147; 123 Stat. 1108) is
amended by striking ‘‘Omnibus Public Land
Management Act of 2009’’ and inserting
‘‘Natural Resources Management Act’’.
(b) REAUTHORIZATION OF THE RIO PUERCO
WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.—Sec-
tion 401(e) of division I of the Omnibus Parks
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1049
February 7, 2019
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996
(Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4148; 123 Stat.
1108) is amended by striking ‘‘Omnibus Pub-
lic Land Management Act of 2009’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Natural Resources Management
Act’’.
SEC. 1123. ASHLEY SPRINGS LAND CONVEYANCE.
(a) CONVEYANCE.—Subject to valid existing
rights, at the request of Uintah County,
Utah (referred to in this section as the
‘‘County’’), the Secretary shall convey to the
County, without consideration, the approxi-
mately 791 acres of public land administered
by the Bureau of Land Management, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Ashley
Springs Property’’ and dated February 4,
2019, subject to the following restrictions:
(1) The conveyed land shall be managed as
open space to protect the watershed and un-
derground karst system and aquifer.
(2) Mining or any form of mineral develop-
ment on the conveyed land is prohibited.
(3) The County shall allow for non-motor-
ized public recreation access on the conveyed
land.
(4) No new roads may be constructed on the
conveyed land.
(b) REVERSION.—A conveyance under sub-
section (a) shall include a reversionary
clause to ensure that management of the
land described in that subsection shall revert
to the Secretary if the land is no longer
being managed in accordance with that sub-
section.
Subtitle C—Wilderness Designations and
Withdrawals
PART I—GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 1201. ORGAN MOUNTAINS-DESERT PEAKS
CONSERVATION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MONUMENT.—The term ‘‘Monument’’
means the Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks
National Monument established by Presi-
dential Proclamation 9131 (79 Fed. Reg.
30431).
(2) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of New Mexico.
(3) WILDERNESS AREA.—The term ‘‘wilder-
ness area’’ means a wilderness area des-
ignated by subsection (b)(1).
(b) DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the State are designated
as wilderness and as components of the Na-
tional Wilderness Preservation System:
(A) ADEN LAVA FLOW WILDERNESS.—Certain
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management in Doña Ana County com-
prising approximately 27,673 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo
Mountains Complex’’ and dated September
27, 2018, which shall be known as the ‘‘Aden
Lava Flow Wilderness’’.
(B) BROAD CANYON WILDERNESS.—Certain
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management in Doña Ana County com-
prising approximately 13,902 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Desert
Peaks Complex’’ and dated October 1, 2018,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Broad Canyon
Wilderness’’.
(C) CINDER CONE WILDERNESS.—Certain land
administered by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment in Doña Ana County comprising ap-
proximately 16,935 acres, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo Moun-
tains Complex’’ and dated September 27, 2018,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Cinder Cone
Wilderness’’.
(D) EAST POTRILLO MOUNTAINS WILDER-
NESS.—Certain land administered by the Bu-
reau of Land Management in Doña Ana and
Luna counties comprising approximately
12,155 acres, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Potrillo Mountains Complex’’ and
dated September 27, 2018, which shall be
known as the ‘‘East Potrillo Mountains Wil-
derness’’.
(E) MOUNT RILEY WILDERNESS.—Certain
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management in Doña Ana and Luna counties
comprising approximately 8,382 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo
Mountains Complex’’ and dated September
27, 2018, which shall be known as the ‘‘Mount
Riley Wilderness’’.
(F) ORGAN MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management in Doña Ana County com-
prising approximately 19,916 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Organ
Mountains Area’’ and dated September 21,
2016, which shall be known as the ‘‘Organ
Mountains Wilderness’’, the boundary of
which shall be offset 400 feet from the center-
line of Dripping Springs Road in T. 23 S., R.
04 E., sec. 7, New Mexico Principal Meridian.
(G) POTRILLO MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management in Doña Ana and Luna
counties comprising approximately 105,085
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Potrillo Mountains Complex’’ and
dated September 27, 2018, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Potrillo Mountains Wilder-
ness’’.
(H) ROBLEDO MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management in Doña Ana County com-
prising approximately 16,776 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Desert
Peaks Complex’’ and dated October 1, 2018,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Robledo Moun-
tains Wilderness’’.
(I) SIERRA DE LAS UVAS WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management in Doña Ana County com-
prising approximately 11,114 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Desert
Peaks Complex’’ and dated October 1, 2018,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Sierra de las
Uvas Wilderness’’.
(J) WHITETHORN WILDERNESS.—Certain land
administered by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment in Doña Ana and Luna counties com-
prising approximately 9,616 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo
Mountains Complex’’ and dated September
27, 2018, which shall be known as the
‘‘Whitethorn Wilderness’’.
(2) MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file maps and legal descrip-
tions of the wilderness areas with—
(i) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate; and
(ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives.
(B) FORCE OF LAW.—The maps and legal de-
scriptions filed under subparagraph (A) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this section, except that the Secretary
may correct errors in the maps and legal de-
scriptions.
(C) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The maps and
legal descriptions filed under subparagraph
(A) shall be on file and available for public
inspection in the appropriate offices of the
Bureau of Land Management.
(3) MANAGEMENT.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the wilderness areas shall be adminis-
tered by the Secretary—
(A) as components of the National Land-
scape Conservation System; and
(B) in accordance with—
(i) this section; and
(ii) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), except that—
(I) any reference in the Wilderness Act to
the effective date of that Act shall be consid-
ered to be a reference to the date of enact-
ment of this Act; and
(II) any reference in the Wilderness Act to
the Secretary of Agriculture shall be consid-
ered to be a reference to the Secretary.
(4) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS IN LAND.—Any land or interest in
land that is within the boundary of a wilder-
ness area that is acquired by the United
States shall—
(A) become part of the wilderness area
within the boundaries of which the land is
located; and
(B) be managed in accordance with—
(i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.);
(ii) this section; and
(iii) any other applicable laws.
(5) GRAZING.—Grazing of livestock in the
wilderness areas, where established before
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be
administered in accordance with—
(A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(B) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A
of the Report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs to accompany H.R. 2570 of
the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 101–405).
(6) MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.—Nothing in
this subsection restricts or precludes—
(A) low-level overflights of military air-
craft over the wilderness areas, including
military overflights that can be seen or
heard within the wilderness areas;
(B) the designation of new units of special
airspace over the wilderness areas; or
(C) the use or establishment of military
flight training routes over the wilderness
areas.
(7) BUFFER ZONES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this sub-
section creates a protective perimeter or
buffer zone around any wilderness area.
(B) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE WILDERNESS
AREAS.—The fact that an activity or use on
land outside any wilderness area can be seen
or heard within the wilderness area shall not
preclude the activity or use outside the
boundary of the wilderness area.
(8) PARAGLIDING.—The use of paragliding
within areas of the East Potrillo Mountains
Wilderness designated by paragraph (1)(D) in
which the use has been established before the
date of enactment of this Act, shall be al-
lowed to continue in accordance with section
4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C.
1133(d)(1)), subject to any terms and condi-
tions that the Secretary determines to be
necessary.
(9) CLIMATOLOGIC DATA COLLECTION.—Sub-
ject to such terms and conditions as the Sec-
retary may prescribe, nothing in this section
precludes the installation and maintenance
of hydrologic, meteorologic, or climatologic
collection devices in wilderness areas if the
facilities and access to the facilities are es-
sential to flood warning, flood control, or
water reservoir operation activities.
(10) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
section affects the jurisdiction of the State
with respect to fish and wildlife located on
public land in the State, except that the Sec-
retary, after consultation with the New Mex-
ico Department of Game and Fish, may des-
ignate zones where, and establish periods
during which, no hunting or fishing shall be
permitted for reasons of public safety, ad-
ministration, or compliance with applicable
law.
(11) WITHDRAWALS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the Federal land within the wilder-
ness areas and any land or interest in land
that is acquired by the United States in the
wilderness areas after the date of enactment
of this Act is withdrawn from—
(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(ii) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1050 February 7, 2019
(iii) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(B) PARCEL B.—The approximately 6,498
acres of land generally depicted as ‘‘Parcel
B’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Organ Mountains
Area’’ and dated September 21, 2016, is with-
drawn in accordance with subparagraph (A),
except that the land is not withdrawn for
purposes of the issuance of oil and gas pipe-
line or road rights-of-way.
(C) PARCEL C.—The approximately 1,297
acres of land generally depicted as ‘‘Parcel
C’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Organ Mountains
Area’’ and dated September 21, 2016, is with-
drawn in accordance with subparagraph (A),
except that the land is not withdrawn from
disposal under the Act of June 14, 1926 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Recreation and Public
Purposes Act’’) (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(D) PARCEL D.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Army shall allow for the conduct of certain
recreational activities on the approximately
2,035 acres of land generally depicted as
‘‘Parcel D’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Organ
Mountains Area’’ and dated September 21,
2016 (referred to in this paragraph as the
‘‘parcel’’), which is a portion of the public
land withdrawn and reserved for military
purposes by Public Land Order 833 dated May
21, 1952 (17 Fed. Reg. 4822).
(ii) OUTDOOR RECREATION PLAN.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Army shall develop a plan for public outdoor
recreation on the parcel that is consistent
with the primary military mission of the
parcel.
(II) REQUIREMENT.—In developing the plan
under subclause (I), the Secretary of the
Army shall ensure, to the maximum extent
practicable, that outdoor recreation activi-
ties may be conducted on the parcel, includ-
ing hunting, hiking, wildlife viewing, and
camping.
(iii) CLOSURES.—The Secretary of the
Army may close the parcel or any portion of
the parcel to the public as the Secretary of
the Army determines to be necessary to pro-
tect—
(I) public safety; or
(II) the safety of the military members
training on the parcel.
(iv) TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDIC-
TION; WITHDRAWAL.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—On a determination by the
Secretary of the Army that military train-
ing capabilities, personnel safety, and instal-
lation security would not be hindered as a
result of the transfer to the Secretary of ad-
ministrative jurisdiction over the parcel, the
Secretary of the Army shall transfer to the
Secretary administrative jurisdiction over
the parcel.
(II) WITHDRAWAL.—On transfer of the par-
cel under subclause (I), the parcel shall be—
(aa) under the jurisdiction of the Director
of the Bureau of Land Management; and
(bb) withdrawn from—
(AA) entry, appropriation, or disposal
under the public land laws;
(BB) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(CC) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(III) RESERVATION.—On transfer under sub-
clause (I), the parcel shall be reserved for
management of the resources of, and mili-
tary training conducted on, the parcel in ac-
cordance with a memorandum of under-
standing entered into under clause (v).
(v) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING RELAT-
ING TO MILITARY TRAINING.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—If, after the transfer of the
parcel under clause (iv)(I), the Secretary of
the Army requests that the Secretary enter
into a memorandum of understanding, the
Secretary shall enter into a memorandum of
understanding with the Secretary of the
Army providing for the conduct of military
training on the parcel.
(II) REQUIREMENTS.—The memorandum of
understanding entered into under subclause
(I) shall—
(aa) address the location, frequency, and
type of training activities to be conducted on
the parcel;
(bb) provide to the Secretary of the Army
access to the parcel for the conduct of mili-
tary training;
(cc) authorize the Secretary or the Sec-
retary of the Army to close the parcel or a
portion of the parcel to the public as the
Secretary or the Secretary of the Army de-
termines to be necessary to protect—
(AA) public safety; or
(BB) the safety of the military members
training; and
(dd) to the maximum extent practicable,
provide for the protection of natural, his-
toric, and cultural resources in the area of
the parcel.
(vi) MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.—Nothing in
this subparagraph restricts or precludes—
(I) low-level overflights of military aircraft
over the parcel, including military over-
flights that can be seen or heard within the
parcel;
(II) the designation of new units of special
airspace over the parcel; or
(III) the use or establishment of military
flight training routes over the parcel.
(12) ROBLEDO MOUNTAINS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall man-
age the Federal land described in subpara-
graph (B) in a manner that preserves the
character of the land for the future inclusion
of the land in the National Wilderness Pres-
ervation System.
(B) LAND DESCRIPTION.—The land referred
to in subparagraph (A) is certain land admin-
istered by the Bureau of Land Management,
comprising approximately 100 acres as gen-
erally depicted as ‘‘Lookout Peak Commu-
nication Site’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Desert
Peaks Complex’’ and dated October 1, 2018.
(C) USES.—The Secretary shall permit only
such uses on the land described in subpara-
graph (B) as were permitted on the date of
enactment of this Act.
(13) RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY
AREAS.—Congress finds that, for purposes of
section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)),
the public land in Doña Ana County adminis-
tered by the Bureau of Land Management
not designated as wilderness by paragraph (1)
or described in paragraph (12)—
(A) has been adequately studied for wilder-
ness designation;
(B) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
(C) shall be managed in accordance with—
(i) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
(ii) this section; and
(iii) any other applicable laws.
(14) PRIVATE LAND.—In accordance with
section 5 of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C.
1134), the Secretary shall ensure adequate ac-
cess to non-Federal land located within the
boundary of a wilderness area.
(c) BORDER SECURITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section—
(A) prevents the Secretary of Homeland
Security from undertaking law enforcement
and border security activities, in accordance
with section 4(c) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(c)), within the wilderness areas,
including the ability to use motorized access
within a wilderness area while in pursuit of
a suspect;
(B) affects the 2006 Memorandum of Under-
standing among the Department of Home-
land Security, the Department of the Inte-
rior, and the Department of Agriculture re-
garding cooperative national security and
counterterrorism efforts on Federal land
along the borders of the United States; or
(C) prevents the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity from conducting any low-level over-
flights over the wilderness areas that may be
necessary for law enforcement and border se-
curity purposes.
(2) WITHDRAWAL AND ADMINISTRATION OF
CERTAIN AREA.—
(A) WITHDRAWAL.—The area identified as
‘‘Parcel A’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo
Mountains Complex’’ and dated September
27, 2018, is withdrawn in accordance with sub-
section (b)(11)(A).
(B) ADMINISTRATION.—Except as provided
in subparagraphs (C) and (D), the Secretary
shall administer the area described in sub-
paragraph (A) in a manner that, to the max-
imum extent practicable, protects the wil-
derness character of the area.
(C) USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES.—The use of
motor vehicles, motorized equipment, and
mechanical transport shall be prohibited in
the area described in subparagraph (A) ex-
cept as necessary for—
(i) the administration of the area (includ-
ing the conduct of law enforcement and bor-
der security activities in the area); or
(ii) grazing uses by authorized permittees.
(D) EFFECT OF SUBSECTION.—Nothing in
this paragraph precludes the Secretary from
allowing within the area described in sub-
paragraph (A) the installation and mainte-
nance of communication or surveillance in-
frastructure necessary for law enforcement
or border security activities.
(3) RESTRICTED ROUTE.—The route excluded
from the Potrillo Mountains Wilderness
identified as ‘‘Restricted—Administrative
Access’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Potrillo Moun-
tains Complex’’ and dated September 27, 2018,
shall be—
(A) closed to public access; but
(B) available for administrative and law
enforcement uses, including border security
activities.
(d) ORGAN MOUNTAINS-DESERT PEAKS NA-
TIONAL MONUMENT.—
(1) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—In preparing and
implementing the management plan for the
Monument, the Secretary shall include a wa-
tershed health assessment to identify oppor-
tunities for watershed restoration.
(2) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED STATE
TRUST LAND AND INTERESTS IN STATE TRUST
LAND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Any land or interest in
land that is within the State trust land de-
scribed in subparagraph (B) that is acquired
by the United States shall—
(i) become part of the Monument; and
(ii) be managed in accordance with—
(I) Presidential Proclamation 9131 (79 Fed.
Reg. 30431);
(II) this section; and
(III) any other applicable laws.
(B) DESCRIPTION OF STATE TRUST LAND.—
The State trust land referred to in subpara-
graph (A) is the State trust land in T. 22 S.,
R 01 W., New Mexico Principal Meridian and
T. 22 S., R. 02 W., New Mexico Principal Me-
ridian.
(3) LAND EXCHANGES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs
(C) through (F), the Secretary shall attempt
to enter into an agreement to initiate an ex-
change under section 2201.1 of title 43, Code
of Federal Regulations (or successor regula-
tions), with the Commissioner of Public
Lands of New Mexico, by the date that is 18
months after the date of enactment of this
Act, to provide for a conveyance to the State
of all right, title, and interest of the United
States in and to Bureau of Land Manage-
ment land in the State identified under sub-
paragraph (B) in exchange for the convey-
ance by the State to the Secretary of all
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1051
February 7, 2019
right, title, and interest of the State in and
to parcels of State trust land within the
boundary of the Monument identified under
that subparagraph or described in paragraph
(2)(B).
(B) IDENTIFICATION OF LAND FOR EX-
CHANGE.—The Secretary and the Commis-
sioner of Public Lands of New Mexico shall
jointly identify the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment land and State trust land eligible for
exchange under this paragraph, the exact
acreage and legal description of which shall
be determined by surveys approved by the
Secretary and the New Mexico State Land
Office.
(C) APPLICABLE LAW.—A land exchange
under subparagraph (A) shall be carried out
in accordance with section 206 of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1716).
(D) CONDITIONS.—A land exchange under
subparagraph (A) shall be subject to—
(i) valid existing rights; and
(ii) such terms as the Secretary and the
State shall establish.
(E) VALUATION, APPRAISALS, AND EQUALI-
ZATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The value of the Bureau of
Land Management land and the State trust
land to be conveyed in a land exchange under
this paragraph—
(I) shall be equal, as determined by ap-
praisals conducted in accordance with clause
(ii); or
(II) if not equal, shall be equalized in ac-
cordance with clause (iii).
(ii) APPRAISALS.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—The Bureau of Land Man-
agement land and State trust land to be ex-
changed under this paragraph shall be ap-
praised by an independent, qualified ap-
praiser that is agreed to by the Secretary
and the State.
(II) REQUIREMENTS.—An appraisal under
subclause (I) shall be conducted in accord-
ance with—
(aa) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(bb) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(iii) EQUALIZATION.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—If the value of the Bureau
of Land Management land and the State
trust land to be conveyed in a land exchange
under this paragraph is not equal, the value
may be equalized by—
(aa) making a cash equalization payment
to the Secretary or to the State, as appro-
priate, in accordance with section 206(b) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)); or
(bb) reducing the acreage of the Bureau of
Land Management land or State trust land
to be exchanged, as appropriate.
(II) CASH EQUALIZATION PAYMENTS.—Any
cash equalization payments received by the
Secretary under subclause (I)(aa) shall be—
(aa) deposited in the Federal Land Disposal
Account established by section 206(a) of the
Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act
(43 U.S.C. 2305(a)); and
(bb) used in accordance with that Act.
(F) LIMITATION.—No exchange of land shall
be conducted under this paragraph unless
mutually agreed to by the Secretary and the
State.
SEC. 1202. CERRO DEL YUTA AND RÍO SAN ANTO-
NIO WILDERNESS AREAS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Rı́o Grande del Norte National
Monument Proposed Wilderness Areas’’ and
dated July 28, 2015.
(2) WILDERNESS AREA.—The term ‘‘wilder-
ness area’’ means a wilderness area des-
ignated by subsection (b)(1).
(b) DESIGNATION OF CERRO DEL YUTA AND
RÍO SAN ANTONIO WILDERNESS AREAS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following areas in the Rı́o Grande del Norte
National Monument are designated as wil-
derness and as components of the National
Wilderness Preservation System:
(A) CERRO DEL YUTA WILDERNESS.—Certain
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management in Taos County, New Mexico,
comprising approximately 13,420 acres as
generally depicted on the map, which shall
be known as the ‘‘Cerro del Yuta Wilder-
ness’’.
(B) RÍO SAN ANTONIO WILDERNESS.—Certain
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management in Rı́o Arriba County, New
Mexico, comprising approximately 8,120
acres, as generally depicted on the map,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Rı́o San Anto-
nio Wilderness’’.
(2) MANAGEMENT OF WILDERNESS AREAS.—
Subject to valid existing rights, the wilder-
ness areas shall be administered in accord-
ance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131
et seq.) and this section, except that with re-
spect to the wilderness areas designated by
this section—
(A) any reference to the effective date of
the Wilderness Act shall be considered to be
a reference to the date of enactment of this
Act; and
(B) any reference in the Wilderness Act to
the Secretary of Agriculture shall be consid-
ered to be a reference to the Secretary.
(3) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS IN LAND.—Any land or interest in
land within the boundary of the wilderness
areas that is acquired by the United States
shall—
(A) become part of the wilderness area in
which the land is located; and
(B) be managed in accordance with—
(i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.);
(ii) this section; and
(iii) any other applicable laws.
(4) GRAZING.—Grazing of livestock in the
wilderness areas, where established before
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be
administered in accordance with—
(A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(B) the guidelines set forth in appendix A
of the Report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs to accompany H.R. 2570 of
the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 101–405).
(5) BUFFER ZONES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the wilderness areas.
(B) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE WILDERNESS
AREAS.—The fact that an activity or use on
land outside a wilderness area can be seen or
heard within the wilderness area shall not
preclude the activity or use outside the
boundary of the wilderness area.
(6) RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS.—
Congress finds that, for purposes of section
603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Man-
agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), the
public land within the San Antonio Wilder-
ness Study Area not designated as wilderness
by this section—
(A) has been adequately studied for wilder-
ness designation;
(B) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
(C) shall be managed in accordance with
this section.
(7) MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file the map and legal de-
scriptions of the wilderness areas with—
(i) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate; and
(ii) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives.
(B) FORCE OF LAW.—The map and legal de-
scriptions filed under subparagraph (A) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this section, except that the Secretary
may correct errors in the legal description
and map.
(C) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The map and
legal descriptions filed under subparagraph
(A) shall be on file and available for public
inspection in the appropriate offices of the
Bureau of Land Management.
(8) NATIONAL LANDSCAPE CONSERVATION SYS-
TEM.—The wilderness areas shall be adminis-
tered as components of the National Land-
scape Conservation System.
(9) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
section affects the jurisdiction of the State
of New Mexico with respect to fish and wild-
life located on public land in the State.
(10) WITHDRAWALS.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, any Federal land within the wil-
derness areas designated by paragraph (1),
including any land or interest in land that is
acquired by the United States after the date
of enactment of this Act, is withdrawn
from—
(A) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(C) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(11) TREATY RIGHTS.—Nothing in this sec-
tion enlarges, diminishes, or otherwise modi-
fies any treaty rights.
SEC. 1203. METHOW VALLEY, WASHINGTON, FED-
ERAL LAND WITHDRAWAL.
(a) DEFINITION OF MAP.—In this section,
the term ‘‘Map’’ means the Forest Service
map entitled ‘‘Methow Headwaters With-
drawal Proposal Legislative Map’’ and dated
May 24, 2016.
(b) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the approximately 340,079 acres of
Federal land and interests in the land lo-
cated in the Okanogan-Wenatchee National
Forest within the area depicted on the Map
as ‘‘Proposed Withdrawal’’ is withdrawn
from all forms of—
(1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(3) disposition under the mineral leasing
and geothermal leasing laws.
(c) ACQUIRED LAND.—Any land or interest
in land within the area depicted on the Map
as ‘‘Proposed Withdrawal’’ that is acquired
by the United States after the date of enact-
ment of this Act shall, on acquisition, be im-
mediately withdrawn in accordance with this
section.
(d) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be kept on file and made available for public
inspection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
SEC. 1204. EMIGRANT CREVICE WITHDRAWAL.
(a) DEFINITION OF MAP.—In this section,
the term ‘‘map’’ means the map entitled
‘‘Emigrant Crevice Proposed Withdrawal
Area’’ and dated November 10, 2016.
(b) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights in existence on the date of enactment
of this Act, the National Forest System land
and interests in the National Forest System
land, as depicted on the map, is withdrawn
from—
(1) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(2) disposition under all laws pertaining to
mineral and geothermal leasing.
(c) ACQUIRED LAND.—Any land or interest
in land within the area depicted on the map
that is acquired by the United States after
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1052 February 7, 2019
the date of enactment of this Act shall, on
acquisition, be immediately withdrawn in
accordance with this section.
(d) MAP.—
(1) SUBMISSION OF MAP.—As soon as prac-
ticable after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall file
the map with—
(A) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives.
(2) FORCE OF LAW.—The map filed under
paragraph (1) shall have the same force and
effect as if included in this section, except
that the Secretary of Agriculture may cor-
rect clerical and typographical errors in the
map.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The map filed
under paragraph (1) shall be on file and avail-
able for public inspection in the appropriate
offices of the Forest Service and the Bureau
of Land Management.
(e) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section affects
any recreational use, including hunting or
fishing, that is authorized on land within the
area depicted on the map under applicable
law as of the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1205. OREGON WILDLANDS.
(a) WILD AND SCENIC RIVER ADDITIONS, DES-
IGNATIONS AND TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—
(1) ADDITIONS TO ROGUE WILD AND SCENIC
RIVER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is
amended by striking paragraph (5) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(5) ROGUE, OREGON.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The segment of the river
extending from the mouth of the Applegate
River downstream to the Lobster Creek
Bridge, to be administered by the Secretary
of the Interior or the Secretary of Agri-
culture, as agreed to by the Secretaries of
the Interior and Agriculture or as directed
by the President.
‘‘(B) ADDITIONS.—In addition to the seg-
ment described in subparagraph (A), there
are designated the following segments in the
Rogue River:
‘‘(i) KELSEY CREEK.—The approximately
6.8-mile segment of Kelsey Creek from the
Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 32 S.,
R. 9 W., sec. 25, Willamette Meridian, to the
confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild
river.
‘‘(ii) EAST FORK KELSEY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.2-
mile segment of East Fork Kelsey Creek
from headwaters downstream to the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 8
W., sec. 5, Willamette Meridian, as a scenic
river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 4.6-
mile segment of East Fork Kelsey Creek
from the Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in
T. 33 S., R. 8 W., sec. 5, Willamette Meridian,
to the confluence with Kelsey Creek, as a
wild river.
‘‘(iii) WHISKY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) RECREATIONAL RIVER.—The approxi-
mately 1.6-mile segment of Whisky Creek
from the confluence of the East Fork and
West Fork to the south boundary of the non-
Federal land in T. 33 S., R. 8 W., sec. 17, Wil-
lamette Meridian, as a recreational river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.2-
mile segment of Whisky Creek from road 33-
8-23 to the confluence with the Rogue River,
as a wild river.
‘‘(iv) EAST FORK WHISKY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.9-
mile segment of East Fork Whisky Creek
from its headwaters to Wild Rogue Wilder-
ness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 8 W., sec. 11,
Willamette Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 2.6-
mile segment of East Fork Whisky Creek
from the Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in
T. 33 S., R. 8 W., sec. 11, Willamette Merid-
ian, downstream to road 33-8-26 crossing, as a
wild river.
‘‘(III) RECREATIONAL RIVER.—The approxi-
mately 0.3-mile segment of East Fork Whis-
ky Creek from road 33-8-26 to the confluence
with Whisky Creek, as a recreational river.
‘‘(v) WEST FORK WHISKY CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 4.8-mile segment of West Fork
Whisky Creek from its headwaters to the
confluence with the East Fork Whisky
Creek, as a wild river.
‘‘(vi) BIG WINDY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 1.5-
mile segment of Big Windy Creek from its
headwaters to road 34-9-17.1, as a scenic
river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 5.8-
mile segment of Big Windy Creek from road
34-9-17.1 to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(vii) EAST FORK BIG WINDY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.2-
mile segment of East Fork Big Windy Creek
from its headwaters to road 34-8-36, as a sce-
nic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 3.7-
mile segment of East Fork Big Windy Creek
from road 34-8-36 to the confluence with Big
Windy Creek, as a wild river.
‘‘(viii) LITTLE WINDY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 1.2-
mile segment of Little Windy Creek from its
headwaters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness
boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 33, Willam-
ette Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.9-
mile segment of Little Windy Creek from the
Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S.,
R. 9 W., sec. 34, Willamette Meridian, to the
confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild
river.
‘‘(ix) HOWARD CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 3.5-
mile segment of Howard Creek from its head-
waters to road 34-9-34, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 6.9-
mile segment of Howard Creek from 0.1 miles
downstream of road 34-9-34 to the confluence
with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(III) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 3.5-
mile segment of Anna Creek from its head-
waters to the confluence with Howard Creek,
as a wild river.
‘‘(x) MULE CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 3.5-
mile segment of Mule Creek from its head-
waters downstream to the Wild Rogue Wil-
derness boundary as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 7.8-
mile segment of Mule Creek from the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 32 S., R. 9
W., sec. 29, Willamette Meridian, to the con-
fluence with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xi) MISSOURI CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 3.1-
mile segment of Missouri Creek from its
headwaters downstream to the Wild Rogue
Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 10 W., sec.
24, Willamette Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.6-
mile segment of Missouri Creek from the
Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S.,
R. 10 W., sec. 24, Willamette Meridian, to the
confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild
river.
‘‘(xii) JENNY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 3.1-
mile segment of Jenny Creek from its head-
waters downstream to the Wild Rogue Wil-
derness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 28,
Willamette Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.8-
mile segment of Jenny Creek from the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9
W., sec. 28, Willamette Meridian, to the con-
fluence with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xiii) RUM CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 2.2-
mile segment of Rum Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 34 S., R. 8 W., sec. 9, Willamette
Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 2.2-
mile segment of Rum Creek from the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 34 S., R. 8
W., sec. 9, Willamette Meridian, to the con-
fluence with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xiv) EAST FORK RUM CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.8-
mile segment of East Fork Rum Creek from
its headwaters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness
boundary in T. 34 S., R. 8 W., sec. 10, Willam-
ette Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.3-
mile segment of East Fork Rum Creek from
the Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 34
S., R. 8 W., sec. 10, Willamette Meridian, to
the confluence with Rum Creek, as a wild
river.
‘‘(xv) WILDCAT CREEK.—The approximately
1.7-mile segment of Wildcat Creek from its
headwaters downstream to the confluence
with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xvi) MONTGOMERY CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 1.8-mile segment of Montgomery
Creek from its headwaters downstream to
the confluence with the Rogue River, as a
wild river.
‘‘(xvii) HEWITT CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 1.4-
mile segment of Hewitt Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 19, Willamette
Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.2-
mile segment of Hewitt Creek from the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 9
W., sec. 19, Willamette Meridian, to the con-
fluence with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xviii) BUNKER CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 6.6-mile segment of Bunker Creek
from its headwaters to the confluence with
the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xix) DULOG CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.8-
mile segment of Dulog Creek from its head-
waters to 0.1 miles downstream of road 34-8-
36, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.0-
mile segment of Dulog Creek from road 34-8-
36 to the confluence with the Rogue River, as
a wild river.
‘‘(xx) QUAIL CREEK.—The approximately
1.7-mile segment of Quail Creek from the
Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S.,
R. 10 W., sec. 1, Willamette Meridian, to the
confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild
river.
‘‘(xxi) MEADOW CREEK.—The approximately
4.1-mile segment of Meadow Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxii) RUSSIAN CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 2.5-mile segment of Russian Creek
from the Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in
T. 33 S., R. 8 W., sec. 20, Willamette Merid-
ian, to the confluence with the Rogue River,
as a wild river.
‘‘(xxiii) ALDER CREEK.—The approximately
1.2-mile segment of Alder Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxiv) BOOZE CREEK.—The approximately
1.5-mile segment of Booze Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxv) BRONCO CREEK.—The approximately
1.8-mile segment of Bronco Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxvi) COPSEY CREEK.—The approximately
1.5-mile segment of Copsey Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1053
February 7, 2019
‘‘(xxvii) CORRAL CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 0.5-mile segment of Corral Creek
from its headwaters to the confluence with
the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxviii) COWLEY CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 0.9-mile segment of Cowley Creek
from its headwaters to the confluence with
the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxix) DITCH CREEK.—The approximately
1.8-mile segment of Ditch Creek from the
Wild Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S.,
R. 9 W., sec. 5, Willamette Meridian, to its
confluence with the Rogue River, as a wild
river.
‘‘(xxx) FRANCIS CREEK.—The approximately
0.9-mile segment of Francis Creek from its
headwaters to the confluence with the Rogue
River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxxi) LONG GULCH.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 1.4-
mile segment of Long Gulch from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 33 S., R. 10 W., sec. 23, Willamette
Meridian, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.1-
mile segment of Long Gulch from the Wild
Rogue Wilderness boundary in T. 33 S., R. 10
W., sec. 23, Willamette Meridian, to the con-
fluence with the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxxii) BAILEY CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 1.4-
mile segment of Bailey Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary on the west section line of T. 34 S., R. 8
W., sec. 14, Willamette Meridian, as a scenic
river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 1.7-
mile segment of Bailey Creek from the west
section line of T. 34 S., R.8 W., sec. 14, Wil-
lamette Meridian, to the confluence of the
Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxxiii) SHADY CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 0.7-mile segment of Shady Creek
from its headwaters to the confluence with
the Rogue River, as a wild river.
‘‘(xxxiv) SLIDE CREEK.—
‘‘(I) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.5-
mile segment of Slide Creek from its head-
waters to road 33-9-6, as a scenic river.
‘‘(II) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 0.7-
mile section of Slide Creek from road 33-9-6
to the confluence with the Rogue River, as a
wild river.’’.
(B) MANAGEMENT.—Each river segment des-
ignated by subparagraph (B) of section 3(a)(5)
of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)(5)) (as added by subparagraph (A))
shall be managed as part of the Rogue Wild
and Scenic River.
(C) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the Federal land within the bound-
aries of the river segments designated by
subparagraph (B) of section 3(a)(5) of the
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)(5)) (as added by subparagraph (A)) is
withdrawn from all forms of—
(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(ii) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(iii) disposition under all laws pertaining
to mineral and geothermal leasing or min-
eral materials.
(D) ADDITIONAL PROTECTIONS FOR ROGUE
RIVER TRIBUTARIES.—
(i) LICENSING BY COMMISSION.—The Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission shall not li-
cense the construction of any dam, water
conduit, reservoir, powerhouse, transmission
line, or other project works on or directly af-
fecting any stream described in clause (iv).
(ii) OTHER AGENCIES.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—No department or agency
of the United States shall assist by loan,
grant, license, or otherwise in the construc-
tion of any water resources project on or di-
rectly affecting any stream segment that is
described in clause (iv), except to maintain
or repair water resources projects in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this Act.
(II) EFFECT.—Nothing in this clause pro-
hibits any department or agency of the
United States in assisting by loan, grant, li-
cense, or otherwise, a water resources
project—
(aa) the primary purpose of which is eco-
logical or aquatic restoration;
(bb) that provides a net benefit to water
quality and aquatic resources; and
(cc) that is consistent with protecting and
enhancing the values for which the river was
designated.
(iii) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the Federal land located within 1⁄4
mile on either side of the stream segments
described in clause (iv) is withdrawn from all
forms of—
(I) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(II) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(III) disposition under all laws pertaining
to mineral and geothermal leasing or min-
eral materials.
(iv) DESCRIPTION OF STREAM SEGMENTS.—
The following are the stream segments re-
ferred to in clause (i):
(I) KELSEY CREEK.—The approximately 2.5-
mile segment of Kelsey Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 32 S., R. 9 W., sec. 25, Willamette
Meridian.
(II) GRAVE CREEK.—The approximately 10.2-
mile segment of Grave Creek from the east
boundary of T. 34 S., R. 7 W., sec. 1, Willam-
ette Meridian, downstream to the confluence
with the Rogue River.
(III) CENTENNIAL GULCH.—The approxi-
mately 2.2-mile segment of Centennial Gulch
from its headwaters to its confluence with
the Rogue River in T. 34 S., R. 7, W., sec. 18,
Willamette Meridian.
(IV) QUAIL CREEK.—The approximately 0.8-
mile segment of Quail Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 33 S., R. 10 W., sec. 1, Willamette
Meridian.
(V) DITCH CREEK.—The approximately 0.7-
mile segment of Ditch Creek from its head-
waters to the Wild Rogue Wilderness bound-
ary in T. 33 S., R. 9 W., sec. 5, Willamette
Meridian.
(VI) GALICE CREEK.—The approximately
2.2-mile segment of Galice Creek from the
confluence with the North Fork Galice Creek
downstream to the confluence with the
Rogue River in T. 34 S., R. 8 W., sec. 36, Wil-
lamette Meridian.
(VII) QUARTZ CREEK.—The approximately
3.3-mile segment of Quartz Creek from its
headwaters to its confluence with the North
Fork Galice Creek in T. 35 S., R. 8 W., sec. 4,
Willamette Meridian.
(VIII) NORTH FORK GALICE CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 5.7-mile segment of the North
Fork Galice Creek from its headwaters to its
confluence with the South Fork Galice
Creek in T. 35 S., R. 8 W., sec. 3, Willamette
Meridian.
(2) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO THE WILD
AND SCENIC RIVERS ACT.—
(A) CHETCO, OREGON.—Section 3(a)(69) of
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)(69)) is amended—
(i) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B),
and (C) as clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), respec-
tively, and indenting appropriately;
(ii) in the matter preceding clause (i) (as so
redesignated), by striking ‘‘The 44.5-mile’’
and inserting the following:
‘‘(A) DESIGNATIONS.—The 44.5-mile’’;
(iii) in clause (i) (as so redesignated)—
(I) by striking ‘‘25.5-mile’’ and inserting
‘‘27.5-mile’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘Boulder Creek at the
Kalmiopsis Wilderness boundary’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Mislatnah Creek’’;
(iv) in clause (ii) (as so redesignated)—
(I) by striking ‘‘8-mile’’ and inserting ‘‘7.5-
mile’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘Boulder Creek to Steel
Bridge’’ and inserting ‘‘Mislatnah Creek to
Eagle Creek’’;
(v) in clause (iii) (as so redesignated)—
(I) by striking ‘‘11-mile’’ and inserting ‘‘9.5-
mile’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘Steel Bridge’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Eagle Creek’’; and
(vi) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid rights,
the Federal land within the boundaries of
the river segments designated by subpara-
graph (A) is withdrawn from all forms of—
‘‘(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
‘‘(ii) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(iii) disposition under all laws pertaining
to mineral and geothermal leasing or min-
eral materials.’’.
(B) WHYCHUS CREEK, OREGON.—Section
3(a)(102) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)(102)) is amended—
(i) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘SQUAW CREEK’’ and inserting ‘‘WHYCHUS
CREEK’’;
(ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and
(B) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively, and
indenting appropriately;
(iii) in the matter preceding clause (i) (as
so redesignated)—
(I) by striking ‘‘The 15.4-mile’’ and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(A) DESIGNATIONS.—The 15.4-mile’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘McAllister Ditch, includ-
ing the Soap Fork Squaw Creek, the North
Fork, the South Fork, the East and West
Forks of Park Creek, and Park Creek Fork’’
and inserting ‘‘Plainview Ditch, including
the Soap Creek, the North and South Forks
of Whychus Creek, the East and West Forks
of Park Creek, and Park Creek’’;
(iv) in clause (ii) (as so redesignated), by
striking ‘‘McAllister Ditch’’ and inserting
‘‘Plainview Ditch’’; and
(v) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the Federal land within the
boundaries of the river segments designated
by subparagraph (A) is withdrawn from all
forms of—
‘‘(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
‘‘(ii) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(iii) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.’’.
(3) WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATIONS,
WASSON CREEK AND FRANKLIN CREEK, OR-
EGON.—Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic
Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(214) FRANKLIN CREEK, OREGON.—The 4.5-
mile segment from its headwaters to the pri-
vate land boundary in sec. 8, to be adminis-
tered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a
wild river.
‘‘(215) WASSON CREEK, OREGON.—The 10.1-
mile segment in the following classes:
‘‘(A) The 4.2-mile segment from the eastern
boundary of T. 21 S., R. 9 W., sec. 17, down-
stream to the western boundary of T. 21 S.,
R. 10 W., sec. 12, to be administered by the
Secretary of the Interior as a wild river.
‘‘(B) The 5.9-mile segment from the west-
ern boundary of T. 21 S., R. 10 W., sec. 12,
downstream to the eastern boundary of the
northwest quarter of T. 21 S., R. 10 W., sec.
22, to be administered by the Secretary of
Agriculture as a wild river.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1054 February 7, 2019
(4) WILD AND SCENIC RIVER DESIGNATIONS,
MOLALLA RIVER, OREGON.—Section 3(a) of the
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a))
(as amended by paragraph (3)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(216) MOLALLA RIVER, OREGON.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The following segments
in the State of Oregon, to be administered by
the Secretary of the Interior as a rec-
reational river:
‘‘(i) MOLALLA RIVER.—The approximately
15.1-mile segment from the southern bound-
ary line of T. 7 S., R. 4 E., sec. 19, down-
stream to the edge of the Bureau of Land
Management boundary in T. 6 S., R. 3 E., sec.
7.
‘‘(ii) TABLE ROCK FORK MOLALLA RIVER.—
The approximately 6.2-mile segment from
the easternmost Bureau of Land Manage-
ment boundary line in the NE1⁄4 sec. 4, T. 7
S., R. 4 E., downstream to the confluence
with the Molalla River.
‘‘(B) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the Federal land within the
boundaries of the river segments designated
by subparagraph (A) is withdrawn from all
forms of—
‘‘(i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
‘‘(ii) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(iii) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.’’.
(5) DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL WILD AND
SCENIC RIVERS.—
(A) ELK RIVER, OREGON.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is
amended by striking paragraph (76) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(76) ELK, OREGON.—The 69.2-mile segment
to be administered by the Secretary of Agri-
culture in the following classes:
‘‘(A) MAINSTEM.—The 17-mile segment from
the confluence of the North and South Forks
of the Elk to Anvil Creek as a recreational
river.
‘‘(B) NORTH FORK.—
‘‘(i) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.6-
mile segment of the North Fork Elk from its
source in T. 33 S., R. 12 W., sec. 21, Willam-
ette Meridian, downstream to 0.01 miles
below Forest Service Road 3353, as a scenic
river.
‘‘(ii) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 5.5-
mile segment of the North Fork Elk from
0.01 miles below Forest Service Road 3353 to
its confluence with the South Fork Elk, as a
wild river.
‘‘(C) SOUTH FORK.—
‘‘(i) SCENIC RIVER.—The approximately 0.9-
mile segment of the South Fork Elk from its
source in the southeast quarter of T. 33 S., R.
12 W., sec. 32, Willamette Meridian, Forest
Service Road 3353, as a scenic river.
‘‘(ii) WILD RIVER.—The approximately 4.2-
mile segment of the South Fork Elk from
0.01 miles below Forest Service Road 3353 to
its confluence with the North Fork Elk, as a
wild river.
‘‘(D) OTHER TRIBUTARIES.—
‘‘(i) ROCK CREEK.—The approximately 1.7-
mile segment of Rock Creek from its head-
waters to the west boundary of T. 32 S., R. 14
W., sec. 30, Willamette Meridian, as a wild
river.
‘‘(ii) BALD MOUNTAIN CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 8-mile segment of Bald Mountain
Creek from its headwaters, including Salal
Spring to its confluence with Elk River, as a
recreational river.
‘‘(iii) SOUTH FORK BALD MOUNTAIN CREEK.—
The approximately 3.5-mile segment of
South Fork Bald Mountain Creek from its
headwaters to its confluence with Bald
Mountain Creek, as a scenic river.
‘‘(iv) PLATINUM CREEK.—The approximately
1-mile segment of Platinum Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to Forest Service Road
5325, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(v) PANTHER CREEK.—The approximately
5.0-mile segment of Panther Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters, including Mountain
Well, to Forest Service Road 5325, as a wild
river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(vi) EAST FORK PANTHER CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 3.0-mile segment of East Fork
Panther Creek from it headwaters, to the
confluence with Panther Creek, as a wild
river.
‘‘(vii) WEST FORK PANTHER CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 3.0-mile segment of West Fork
Panther Creek from its headwaters to the
confluence with Panther Creek as a wild
river.
‘‘(viii) LOST CREEK.—The approximately
1.0-mile segment of Lost Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to Forest Service Road
5325, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with the Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(ix) MILBURY CREEK.—The approximately
1.5-mile segment of Milbury Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to Forest Service Road
5325, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with the Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(x) BLACKBERRY CREEK.—The approxi-
mately 5.0-mile segment of Blackberry Creek
from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to Forest Service Road
5325, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with the Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(xi) EAST FORK BLACKBERRY CREEK.—The
approximately 2.0-mile segment of the
unnamed tributary locally known as ‘East
Fork Blackberry Creek’ from its headwaters
in T. 33 S., R. 13 W., sec. 26, Willamette Me-
ridian, to its confluence with Blackberry
Creek, as a wild river.
‘‘(xii) MCCURDY CREEK.—The approximately
1.0-mile segment of McCurdy Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to Forest Service Road
5325, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) Forest Service Road 5325 to its con-
fluence with the Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(xiii) BEAR CREEK.—The approximately
1.5-mile segment of Bear Creek from head-
waters to the confluence with Bald Mountain
Creek, as a recreational river.
‘‘(xiv) BUTLER CREEK.—The approximately
4-mile segment of Butler Creek from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters to the south boundary
of T. 33 S., R. 13 W., sec. 8, Willamette Merid-
ian, as a wild river; and
‘‘(II) from the south boundary of T. 33 S.,
R. 13 W., sec. 8, Willamette Meridian, to its
confluence with Elk River, as a scenic river.
‘‘(xv) EAST FORK BUTLER CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 2.8-mile segment locally known
as the ‘East Fork of Butler Creek’ from its
headwaters on Mount Butler in T. 32 S., R. 13
W., sec. 29, Willamette Meridian, to its con-
fluence with Butler Creek, as a scenic river.
‘‘(xvi) PURPLE MOUNTAIN CREEK.—The ap-
proximately 2.0-mile segment locally known
as ‘Purple Mountain Creek’ from—
‘‘(I) its headwaters in secs. 35 and 36, T. 33
S., R. 14 W., Willamette Meridian, to 0.01
miles above Forest Service Road 5325, as a
wild river; and
‘‘(II) 0.01 miles above Forest Service Road
5325 to its confluence with the Elk River, as
a scenic river.’’.
(ii) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the Federal land within the
boundaries of the river segments designated
by paragraph (76) of section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
amended by clause (i)) is withdrawn from all
forms of—
(I) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(II) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(III) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.
(B) DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVER
SEGMENTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
amended by paragraph (4)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(217) NESTUCCA RIVER, OREGON.—The ap-
proximately 15.5-mile segment from its con-
fluence with Ginger Creek downstream until
it crosses the western edge of T. 4 S., R. 7 W.,
sec. 7, Willamette Meridian, to be adminis-
tered by the Secretary of the Interior as a
recreational river.
‘‘(218) WALKER CREEK, OREGON.—The ap-
proximately 2.9-mile segment from the head-
waters in T. 3 S., R. 6 W., sec. 20 downstream
to the confluence with the Nestucca River in
T. 3 S., R. 6 W., sec. 15, Willamette Meridian,
to be administered by the Secretary of the
Interior as a recreational river.
‘‘(219) NORTH FORK SILVER CREEK, OREGON.—
The approximately 6-mile segment from the
headwaters in T. 35 S., R. 9 W., sec. 1 down-
stream to the western edge of the Bureau of
Land Management boundary in T. 35 S., R. 9
W., sec. 17, Willamette Meridian, to be ad-
ministered by the Secretary of the Interior
as a recreational river.
‘‘(220) JENNY CREEK, OREGON.—The approxi-
mately 17.6-mile segment from the Bureau of
Land Management boundary located at the
north boundary of the southwest quarter of
the southeast quarter of T. 38 S., R. 4 E., sec.
34, Willamette Meridian, downstream to the
Oregon State border, to be administered by
the Secretary of the Interior as a scenic
river.
‘‘(221) SPRING CREEK, OREGON.—The ap-
proximately 1.1-mile segment from its source
at Shoat Springs in T. 40 S., R. 4 E., sec. 34,
Willamette Meridian, downstream to the
confluence with Jenny Creek in T. 41 S., R.
4 E., sec. 3, Willamette Meridian, to be ad-
ministered by the Secretary of the Interior
as a scenic river.
‘‘(222) LOBSTER CREEK, OREGON.—The ap-
proximately 5-mile segment from T. 15 S., R.
8 W., sec. 35, Willamette Meridian, down-
stream to the northern edge of the Bureau of
Land Management boundary in T. 15 S., R. 8
W., sec. 15, Willamette Meridian, to be ad-
ministered by the Secretary of the Interior
as a recreational river.
‘‘(223) ELK CREEK, OREGON.—The approxi-
mately 7.3-mile segment from its confluence
with Flat Creek near river mile 9, to the
southern edge of the Army Corps of Engi-
neers boundary in T. 33 S., R. 1 E., sec. 30,
Willamette Meridian, near river mile 1.7, to
be administered by the Secretary of the Inte-
rior as a scenic river.’’.
(ii) ADMINISTRATION OF ELK CREEK.—
(I) LATERAL BOUNDARIES OF ELK CREEK.—
The lateral boundaries of the river segment
designated by paragraph (223) of section 3(a)
of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)) (as added by clause (i)) shall include
an average of not more than 640 acres per
mile measured from the ordinary high water
mark on both sides of the river segment.
(II) DEAUTHORIZATION.—The Elk Creek
Project authorized under the Flood Control
Act of 1962 (Public Law 87–874; 76 Stat. 1192)
is deauthorized.
(iii) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the Federal land within the
boundaries of the river segments designated
by paragraphs (217) through (223) of section
3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1055
February 7, 2019
U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by clause (i)) is
withdrawn from all forms of—
(I) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(II) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(III) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral
materials.
(b) DEVIL’S STAIRCASE WILDERNESS.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Devil’s Staircase Wilderness Pro-
posal’’ and dated July 26, 2018.
(B) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means—
(i) the Secretary, with respect to public
land administered by the Secretary; or
(ii) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to National Forest System land.
(C) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Oregon.
(D) WILDERNESS.—The term ‘‘Wilderness’’
means the Devil’s Staircase Wilderness des-
ignated by paragraph (2).
(2) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
approximately 30,621 acres of Forest Service
land and Bureau of Land Management land
in the State, as generally depicted on the
map, is designated as wilderness and as a
component of the National Wilderness Pres-
ervation System, to be known as the ‘‘Dev-
il’s Staircase Wilderness’’.
(3) MAP; LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare a map and legal de-
scription of the Wilderness.
(B) FORCE OF LAW.—The map and legal de-
scription prepared under subparagraph (A)
shall have the same force and effect as if in-
cluded in this subsection, except that the
Secretary may correct clerical and typo-
graphical errors in the map and legal de-
scription.
(C) AVAILABILITY.—The map and legal de-
scription prepared under subparagraph (A)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service and Bureau of Land Manage-
ment.
(4) ADMINISTRATION.—Subject to valid ex-
isting rights, the area designated as wilder-
ness by this subsection shall be administered
by the Secretary in accordance with the Wil-
derness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except
that—
(A) any reference in that Act to the effec-
tive date shall be considered to be a ref-
erence to the date of enactment of this Act;
and
(B) any reference in that Act to the Sec-
retary of Agriculture shall be considered to
be a reference to the Secretary that has ju-
risdiction over the land within the Wilder-
ness.
(5) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
subsection affects the jurisdiction or respon-
sibilities of the State with respect to fish
and wildlife in the State.
(6) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this sub-
section creates any protective perimeter or
buffer zone around the Wilderness.
(B) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE WILDERNESS.—The
fact that a nonwilderness activity or use on
land outside the Wilderness can be seen or
heard within the Wilderness shall not pre-
clude the activity or use outside the bound-
ary of the Wilderness.
(7) PROTECTION OF TRIBAL RIGHTS.—Nothing
in this subsection diminishes any treaty
rights of an Indian Tribe.
(8) TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDIC-
TION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Administrative jurisdic-
tion over the approximately 49 acres of Bu-
reau of Land Management land north of the
Umpqua River in T. 21 S., R. 11 W., sec. 32, is
transferred from the Bureau of Land Man-
agement to the Forest Service.
(B) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer the land transferred by subpara-
graph (A) in accordance with—
(i) the Act of March 1, 1911 (commonly
known as the ‘‘Weeks Law’’) (16 U.S.C. 480 et
seq.); and
(ii) any laws (including regulations) appli-
cable to the National Forest System.
PART II—EMERY COUNTY PUBLIC LAND
MANAGEMENT
SEC. 1211. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) COUNCIL.—The term ‘‘Council’’ means
the San Rafael Swell Recreation Area Advi-
sory Council established under section
1223(a).
(2) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Emery County in the State.
(3) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term ‘‘Man-
agement Plan’’ means the management plan
for the Recreation Area developed under sec-
tion 1222(c).
(4) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Emery County Public Land Man-
agement Act of 2018 Overview Map’’ and
dated February 5, 2019.
(5) RECREATION AREA.—The term ‘‘Recre-
ation Area’’ means the San Rafael Swell
Recreation Area established by section
1221(a)(1).
(6) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means—
(A) the Secretary, with respect to public
land administered by the Bureau of Land
Management; and
(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to National Forest System land.
(7) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Utah.
(8) WILDERNESS AREA.—The term ‘‘wilder-
ness area’’ means a wilderness area des-
ignated by section 1231(a).
SEC. 1212. ADMINISTRATION.
Nothing in this part affects or modifies—
(1) any right of any federally recognized In-
dian Tribe; or
(2) any obligation of the United States to
any federally recognized Indian Tribe.
SEC. 1213. EFFECT ON WATER RIGHTS.
Nothing in this part—
(1) affects the use or allocation, in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this Act, of
any water, water right, or interest in water;
(2) affects any water right (as defined by
applicable State law) in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act, including any
water right held by the United States;
(3) affects any interstate water compact in
existence on the date of enactment of this
Act;
(4) shall be considered to be a relinquish-
ment or reduction of any water rights re-
served or appropriated by the United States
in the State on or before the date of enact-
ment of this Act; or
(5) affects the management and operation
of Flaming Gorge Dam and Reservoir, in-
cluding the storage, management, and re-
lease of water.
SEC. 1214. SAVINGS CLAUSE.
Nothing in this part diminishes the au-
thority of the Secretary under Public Law
92–195 (commonly known as the ‘‘Wild Free-
Roaming Horses and Burros Act’’) (16 U.S.C.
1331 et seq.).
Subpart A—San Rafael Swell Recreation Area
SEC. 1221. ESTABLISHMENT OF RECREATION
AREA.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, there is established the San Rafael
Swell Recreation Area in the State.
(2) AREA INCLUDED.—The Recreation Area
shall consist of approximately 216,995 acres
of Federal land managed by the Bureau of
Land Management, as generally depicted on
the Map.
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Recre-
ation Area are to provide for the protection,
conservation, and enhancement of the rec-
reational, cultural, natural, scenic, wildlife,
ecological, historical, and educational re-
sources of the Recreation Area.
(c) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file a map and legal descrip-
tion of the Recreation Area with the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
(2) EFFECT.—The map and legal description
filed under paragraph (1) shall have the same
force and effect as if included in this subpart,
except that the Secretary may correct cler-
ical and typographical errors in the map and
legal description.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—A copy of the
map and legal description filed under para-
graph (1) shall be on file and available for
public inspection in the appropriate offices
of the Bureau of Land Management.
SEC. 1222. MANAGEMENT OF RECREATION AREA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Recreation Area—
(1) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the purposes for which the
Recreation Area is established; and
(2) in accordance with—
(A) this section;
(B) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
(C) other applicable laws.
(b) USES.—The Secretary shall allow only
uses of the Recreation Area that are con-
sistent with the purposes for which the
Recreation Area is established.
(c) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall develop a comprehensive
management plan for the long-term protec-
tion and management of the Recreation
Area.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The Management Plan
shall—
(A) describe the appropriate uses and man-
agement of the Recreation Area;
(B) be developed with extensive public
input;
(C) take into consideration any informa-
tion developed in studies of the land within
the Recreation Area; and
(D) be developed fully consistent with the
settlement agreement entered into on Janu-
ary 13, 2017, in the case in the United States
District Court for the District of Utah styled
‘‘Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance, et al. v.
U.S. Department of the Interior, et al.’’ and
numbered 2:12–cv–257 DAK.
(d) MOTORIZED VEHICLES; NEW ROADS.—
(1) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—Except as needed
for emergency response or administrative
purposes, the use of motorized vehicles in
the Recreation Area shall be permitted only
on roads and motorized routes designated in
the Management Plan for the use of motor-
ized vehicles.
(2) NEW ROADS.—No new permanent or tem-
porary roads or other motorized vehicle
routes shall be constructed within the Recre-
ation Area after the date of enactment of
this Act.
(3) EXISTING ROADS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Necessary maintenance
or repairs to existing roads designated in the
Management Plan for the use of motorized
vehicles, including necessary repairs to keep
existing roads free of debris or other safety
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1056 February 7, 2019
hazards, shall be permitted after the date of
enactment of this Act, consistent with the
requirements of this section.
(B) EFFECT.—Nothing in this subsection
prevents the Secretary from rerouting an ex-
isting road or trail to protect Recreation
Area resources from degradation or to pro-
tect public safety, as determined to be appro-
priate by the Secretary.
(e) GRAZING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The grazing of livestock
in the Recreation Area, if established before
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be
allowed to continue, subject to such reason-
able regulations, policies, and practices as
the Secretary considers to be necessary in
accordance with—
(A) applicable law (including regulations);
and
(B) the purposes of the Recreation Area.
(2) INVENTORY.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary, in collaboration with any affected
grazing permittee, shall carry out an inven-
tory of facilities and improvements associ-
ated with grazing activities in the Recre-
ation Area.
(f) COLD WAR SITES.—The Secretary shall
manage the Recreation Area in a manner
that educates the public about Cold War and
historic uranium mine sites in the Recre-
ation Area, subject to such terms and condi-
tions as the Secretary considers necessary to
protect public health and safety.
(g) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED LAND AND
INTERESTS.—Any land or interest in land lo-
cated within the boundary of the Recreation
Area that is acquired by the United States
after the date of enactment of this Act
shall—
(1) become part of the Recreation Area;
and
(2) be managed in accordance with applica-
ble laws, including as provided in this sec-
tion.
(h) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, all Federal land within the Recre-
ation Area, including any land or interest in
land that is acquired by the United States
within the Recreation Area after the date of
enactment of this Act, is withdrawn from—
(1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(i) STUDY OF NONMOTORIZED RECREATION
OPPORTUNITIES.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary, in consultation with interested par-
ties, shall conduct a study of nonmotorized
recreation trail opportunities, including bi-
cycle trails, within the Recreation Area,
consistent with the purposes of the Recre-
ation Area.
(j) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.—The Sec-
retary may enter into a cooperative agree-
ment with the State in accordance with sec-
tion 307(b) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1737(b))
and other applicable laws to provide for the
protection, management, and maintenance
of the Recreation Area.
SEC. 1223. SAN RAFAEL SWELL RECREATION
AREA ADVISORY COUNCIL.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall establish an advisory
council, to be known as the ‘‘San Rafael
Swell Recreation Area Advisory Council’’.
(b) DUTIES.—The Council shall advise the
Secretary with respect to the preparation
and implementation of the Management
Plan for the Recreation Area.
(c) APPLICABLE LAW.—The Council shall be
subject to—
(1) the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5
U.S.C. App.); and
(2) section 309 of the Federal Land Policy
and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1739).
(d) MEMBERS.—The Council shall include 7
members, to be appointed by the Secretary,
of whom, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable—
(1) 1 member shall represent the Emery
County Commission;
(2) 1 member shall represent motorized rec-
reational users;
(3) 1 member shall represent nonmotorized
recreational users;
(4) 1 member shall represent permittees
holding grazing allotments within the Recre-
ation Area or wilderness areas designated in
this part;
(5) 1 member shall represent conservation
organizations;
(6) 1 member shall have expertise in the
historical uses of the Recreation Area; and
(7) 1 member shall be appointed from the
elected leadership of a Federally recognized
Indian Tribe that has significant cultural or
historical connections to, and expertise in,
the landscape, archeological sites, or cul-
tural sites within the County.
Subpart B—Wilderness Areas
SEC. 1231. ADDITIONS TO THE NATIONAL WIL-
DERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.
(a) ADDITIONS.—In accordance with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the
following land in the State is designated as
wilderness and as components of the Na-
tional Wilderness Preservation System:
(1) BIG WILD HORSE MESA.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 18,192
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Big Wild Horse Mesa Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Big Wild Horse
Mesa Wilderness’’.
(2) COLD WASH.—Certain Federal land man-
aged by the Bureau of Land Management,
comprising approximately 11,001 acres, gen-
erally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Cold Wash Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Cold Wash Wilderness’’.
(3) DESOLATION CANYON.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 142,996
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Desolation Canyon Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Desolation
Canyon Wilderness’’.
(4) DEVIL’S CANYON.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 8,675 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Devil’s Canyon Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Devil’s Canyon Wilderness’’.
(5) EAGLE CANYON.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 13,832 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Eagle Canyon Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Eagle Canyon Wilderness’’.
(6) HORSE VALLEY.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 12,201 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Horse Valley Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Horse Valley Wilderness’’.
(7) LABYRINTH CANYON.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 54,643
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Labyrinth Canyon Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Labyrinth
Canyon Wilderness’’.
(8) LITTLE OCEAN DRAW.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 20,660
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Little Ocean Draw Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Little Ocean
Draw Wilderness’’.
(9) LITTLE WILD HORSE CANYON.—Certain
Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
5,479 acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Little Wild Horse Canyon Wilder-
ness’’, which shall be known as the ‘‘Little
Wild Horse Canyon Wilderness’’.
(10) LOWER LAST CHANCE.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 19,338
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Lower Last Chance Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Lower Last
Chance Wilderness’’.
(11) MEXICAN MOUNTAIN.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 76,413
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Mexican Mountain Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Mexican Moun-
tain Wilderness’’.
(12) MIDDLE WILD HORSE MESA.—Certain
Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
16,343 acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Middle Wild Horse Mesa Wilder-
ness’’, which shall be known as the ‘‘Middle
Wild Horse Mesa Wilderness’’.
(13) MUDDY CREEK.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 98,023 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Muddy Creek Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Muddy Creek Wilderness’’.
(14) NELSON MOUNTAIN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Forest Service, comprising
approximately 7,176 acres, and certain Fed-
eral land managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately 257
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed Nelson Mountain Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘Nelson Moun-
tain Wilderness’’.
(B) TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDIC-
TION.—Administrative jurisdiction over the
257-acre portion of the Nelson Mountain Wil-
derness designated by subparagraph (A) is
transferred from the Bureau of Land Man-
agement to the Forest Service.
(15) RED’S CANYON.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 17,325 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Red’s Canyon Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Red’s Canyon Wilderness’’.
(16) SAN RAFAEL REEF.—Certain Federal
land managed by the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 60,442
acres, generally depicted on the Map as
‘‘Proposed San Rafael Reef Wilderness’’,
which shall be known as the ‘‘San Rafael
Reef Wilderness’’.
(17) SID’S MOUNTAIN.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 49,130 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Sid’s Mountain Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Sid’s Mountain Wilderness’’.
(18) TURTLE CANYON.—Certain Federal land
managed by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, comprising approximately 29,029 acres,
generally depicted on the Map as ‘‘Proposed
Turtle Canyon Wilderness’’, which shall be
known as the ‘‘Turtle Canyon Wilderness’’.
(b) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file a map and legal descrip-
tion of each wilderness area with—
(A) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
(2) EFFECT.—Each map and legal descrip-
tion filed under paragraph (1) shall have the
same force and effect as if included in this
part, except that the Secretary may correct
clerical and typographical errors in the maps
and legal descriptions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1057
February 7, 2019
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Each map and legal de-
scription filed under paragraph (1) shall be
on file and available for public inspection in
the appropriate office of the Secretary.
SEC. 1232. ADMINISTRATION.
(a) MANAGEMENT.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the wilderness areas shall be ad-
ministered by the Secretary in accordance
with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), except that—
(1) any reference in that Act to the effec-
tive date shall be considered to be a ref-
erence to the date of enactment of this Act;
and
(2) any reference in that Act to the Sec-
retary of Agriculture shall be considered to
be a reference to the Secretary.
(b) RECREATIONAL CLIMBING.—Nothing in
this part prohibits recreational rock climb-
ing activities in the wilderness areas, such as
the placement, use, and maintenance of fixed
anchors, including any fixed anchor estab-
lished before the date of the enactment of
this Act—
(1) in accordance with the Wilderness Act
(16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); and
(2) subject to any terms and conditions de-
termined to be necessary by the Secretary.
(c) TRAIL PLAN.—After providing opportu-
nities for public comment, the Secretary
shall establish a trail plan that addresses
hiking and equestrian trails on the wilder-
ness areas in a manner consistent with the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
(d) LIVESTOCK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The grazing of livestock
in the wilderness areas, if established before
the date of enactment of this Act, shall be
allowed to continue, subject to such reason-
able regulations, policies, and practices as
the Secretary considers to be necessary in
accordance with—
(A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(B) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A
of the report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs of the House of Rep-
resentatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the
101st Congress (House Report 101–405).
(2) INVENTORY.—With respect to each wil-
derness area in which grazing of livestock is
allowed to continue under paragraph (1), not
later than 2 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary, in collabora-
tion with any affected grazing permittee,
shall carry out an inventory of facilities and
improvements associated with grazing ac-
tivities in the wilderness area.
(e) ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Congress does not intend
for the designation of the wilderness areas to
create protective perimeters or buffer zones
around the wilderness areas.
(2) NONWILDERNESS ACTIVITIES.—The fact
that nonwilderness activities or uses can be
seen or heard from areas within a wilderness
area shall not preclude the conduct of those
activities or uses outside the boundary of the
wilderness area.
(f) MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.—Nothing in
this subpart restricts or precludes—
(1) low-level overflights of military air-
craft over the wilderness areas, including
military overflights that can be seen or
heard within the wilderness areas;
(2) flight testing and evaluation; or
(3) the designation or creation of new units
of special use airspace, or the establishment
of military flight training routes, over the
wilderness areas.
(g) COMMERCIAL SERVICES.—Commercial
services (including authorized outfitting and
guide activities) within the wilderness areas
may be authorized to the extent necessary
for activities that are appropriate for real-
izing the recreational or other wilderness
purposes of the wilderness areas, in accord-
ance with section 4(d)(5) of the Wilderness
Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(5)).
(h) LAND ACQUISITION AND INCORPORATION
OF ACQUIRED LAND AND INTERESTS.—
(1) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may acquire land and interests in land with-
in the boundaries of a wilderness area by do-
nation, purchase from a willing seller, or ex-
change.
(2) INCORPORATION.—Any land or interest in
land within the boundary of a wilderness
area that is acquired by the United States
after the date of enactment of this Act shall
be added to and administered as part of the
wilderness area.
(i) WATER RIGHTS.—
(1) STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this subpart—
(A) shall constitute or be construed to con-
stitute either an express or implied reserva-
tion by the United States of any water or
water rights with respect to the land des-
ignated as wilderness by section 1231;
(B) shall affect any water rights in the
State existing on the date of enactment of
this Act, including any water rights held by
the United States;
(C) shall be construed as establishing a
precedent with regard to any future wilder-
ness designations;
(D) shall affect the interpretation of, or
any designation made pursuant to, any other
Act; or
(E) shall be construed as limiting, altering,
modifying, or amending any of the interstate
compacts or equitable apportionment de-
crees that apportions water among and be-
tween the State and other States.
(2) STATE WATER LAW.—The Secretary shall
follow the procedural and substantive re-
quirements of the State in order to obtain
and hold any water rights not in existence on
the date of enactment of this Act with re-
spect to the wilderness areas.
(j) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—The
Secretary shall offer to enter into a memo-
randum of understanding with the County, in
accordance with the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), to clarify the approval
processes for the use of motorized equipment
and mechanical transport for search and res-
cue activities in the Muddy Creek Wilderness
established by section 1231(a)(13).
SEC. 1233. FISH AND WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT.
Nothing in this subpart affects the juris-
diction of the State with respect to fish and
wildlife on public land located in the State.
SEC. 1234. RELEASE.
(a) FINDING.—Congress finds that, for the
purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1782(c)), the approximately 17,420
acres of public land administered by the Bu-
reau of Land Management in the County
that has not been designated as wilderness
by section 1231(a) has been adequately stud-
ied for wilderness designation.
(b) RELEASE.—The public land described in
subsection (a)—
(1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
(2) shall be managed in accordance with—
(A) applicable law; and
(B) any applicable land management plan
adopted under section 202 of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1712).
Subpart C—Wild and Scenic River
Designation
SEC. 1241. GREEN RIVER WILD AND SCENIC
RIVER DESIGNATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
amended by section 1205(a)(5)(B)(i)) is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(224) GREEN RIVER.—The approximately
63-mile segment, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘Emery County Public Land
Management Act of 2018 Overview Map’ and
dated December 11, 2018, to be administered
by the Secretary of the Interior, in the fol-
lowing classifications:
‘‘(A) WILD RIVER SEGMENT.—The 5.3-mile
segment from the boundary of the Uintah
and Ouray Reservation, south to the
Nefertiti boat ramp, as a wild river.
‘‘(B) RECREATIONAL RIVER SEGMENT.—The
8.5-mile segment from the Nefertiti boat
ramp, south to the Swasey’s boat ramp, as a
recreational river.
‘‘(C) SCENIC RIVER SEGMENT.—The 49.2-mile
segment from Bull Bottom, south to the
county line between Emery and Wayne Coun-
ties, as a scenic river.’’.
(b) INCORPORATION OF ACQUIRED NON-FED-
ERAL LAND.—If the United States acquires
any non-Federal land within or adjacent to a
river segment of the Green River designated
by paragraph (224) of section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
added by subsection (a)), the acquired land
shall be incorporated in, and be administered
as part of, the applicable wild, scenic, or rec-
reational river.
Subpart D—Land Management and
Conveyances
SEC. 1251. GOBLIN VALLEY STATE PARK.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to convey to the Utah Division of Parks and
Recreation of the Utah Department of Nat-
ural Resources (referred to in this section as
the ‘‘State’’), approximately 6,261 acres of
land identified on the Map as the ‘‘Proposed
Goblin Valley State Park Expansion’’, with-
out consideration, for the management by
the State as a State park, consistent with
uses allowed under the Act of June 14, 1926
(commonly known as the ‘‘Recreation and
Public Purposes Act’’) (44 Stat. 741, chapter
578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(b) REVERSIONARY CLAUSE REQUIRED.—A
conveyance under subsection (a) shall in-
clude a reversionary clause to ensure that
management of the land described in that
subsection shall revert to the Secretary if
the land is no longer being managed as a
State park in accordance with subsection (a).
SEC. 1252. JURASSIC NATIONAL MONUMENT.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT PURPOSES.—To con-
serve, interpret, and enhance for the benefit
of present and future generations the paleon-
tological, scientific, educational, and rec-
reational resources of the area and subject to
valid existing rights, there is established in
the State the Jurassic National Monument
(referred to in this section as the ‘‘Monu-
ment’’), consisting of approximately 850
acres of Federal land administered by the
Bureau of Land Management in the County
and generally depicted as ‘‘Proposed Jurassic
National Monument’’ on the Map.
(b) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file with the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a map and
legal description of the Monument.
(2) EFFECT.—The map and legal description
filed under paragraph (1) shall have the same
force and effect as if included in this section,
except that the Secretary may correct cler-
ical and typographical errors in the map and
legal description, subject to the requirement
that, before making the proposed correc-
tions, the Secretary shall submit to the
State and any affected county the proposed
corrections.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—A copy of the
map and legal description filed under para-
graph (1) shall be on file and available for
public inspection in the appropriate offices
of the Bureau of Land Management.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1058 February 7, 2019
(c) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, any Federal land within the bound-
aries of the Monument and any land or inter-
est in land that is acquired by the United
States for inclusion in the Monument after
the date of enactment of this Act is with-
drawn from—
(1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing laws,
geothermal leasing laws, and minerals mate-
rials laws.
(d) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall man-
age the Monument—
(A) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the resources and values of the
Monument, including the resources and val-
ues described in subsection (a); and
(B) in accordance with—
(i) this section;
(ii) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
(iii) any other applicable Federal law.
(2) NATIONAL LANDSCAPE CONSERVATION SYS-
TEM.—The Monument shall be managed as a
component of the National Landscape Con-
servation System.
(e) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall develop a comprehensive
management plan for the long-term protec-
tion and management of the Monument.
(2) COMPONENTS.—The management plan
developed under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) describe the appropriate uses and man-
agement of the Monument, consistent with
the provisions of this section; and
(B) allow for continued scientific research
at the Monument during the development of
the management plan for the Monument,
subject to any terms and conditions that the
Secretary determines necessary to protect
Monument resources.
(f) AUTHORIZED USES.—The Secretary shall
only allow uses of the Monument that the
Secretary determines would further the pur-
poses for which the Monument has been es-
tablished.
(g) INTERPRETATION, EDUCATION, AND SCI-
ENTIFIC RESEARCH.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall pro-
vide for public interpretation of, and edu-
cation and scientific research on, the paleon-
tological resources of the Monument.
(2) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—The Sec-
retary may enter into cooperative agree-
ments with appropriate public entities to
carry out paragraph (1).
(h) SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREAS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The establishment of the
Monument shall not modify the management
status of any area within the boundary of
the Monument that is managed as an area of
critical environmental concern.
(2) CONFLICT OF LAWS.—If there is a conflict
between the laws applicable to an area de-
scribed in paragraph (1) and this section, the
more restrictive provision shall control.
(i) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—Except as needed
for administrative purposes or to respond to
an emergency, the use of motorized vehicles
in the Monument shall be allowed only on
roads and trails designated for use by motor-
ized vehicles under the management plan for
the Monument developed under subsection
(e).
(j) WATER RIGHTS.—Nothing in this section
constitutes an express or implied reservation
by the United States of any water or water
rights with respect to the Monument.
(k) GRAZING.—The grazing of livestock in
the Monument, if established before the date
of enactment of this Act, shall be allowed to
continue, subject to such reasonable regula-
tions, policies, and practices as the Sec-
retary considers to be necessary in accord-
ance with—
(1) applicable law (including regulations);
(2) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A
of the report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs of the House of Rep-
resentatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the
101st Congress (House Report 101–405); and
(3) the purposes of the Monument.
SEC. 1253. PUBLIC LAND DISPOSAL AND ACQUISI-
TION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with appli-
cable law, the Secretary may sell public land
located in the County that has been identi-
fied as suitable for disposal based on specific
criteria as listed in the Federal Land Policy
and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1713)
in the applicable resource management plan
in existence on the date of enactment of this
Act.
(b) USE OF PROCEEDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law (other than a law that
specifically provides for a portion of the pro-
ceeds of a land sale to be distributed to any
trust fund of the State), proceeds from the
sale of public land under subsection (a) shall
be deposited in a separate account in the
Treasury, to be known as the ‘‘Emery Coun-
ty, Utah, Land Acquisition Account’’ (re-
ferred to in this section as the ‘‘Account’’).
(2) AVAILABILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Amounts in the Account
shall be available to the Secretary, without
further appropriation, to purchase from will-
ing sellers land or interests in land within a
wilderness area or the Recreation Area.
(B) APPLICABILITY.—Any purchase of land
or interest in land under subparagraph (A)
shall be in accordance with applicable law.
(C) PROTECTION OF CULTURAL RESOURCES.—
To the extent that there are amounts in the
Account in excess of the amounts needed to
carry out subparagraph (A), the Secretary
may use the excess amounts for the protec-
tion of cultural resources on Federal land
within the County.
SEC. 1254. PUBLIC PURPOSE CONVEYANCES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the land
use planning requirement of sections 202 and
203 of the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), on re-
quest by the applicable local governmental
entity, the Secretary shall convey without
consideration the following parcels of public
land to be used for public purposes:
(1) EMERY CITY RECREATION AREA.—The ap-
proximately 640-acre parcel as generally de-
picted on the Map, to the City of Emery,
Utah, for the creation or enhancement of
public recreation opportunities consistent
with uses allowed under the Act of June 14,
1926 (commonly known as the ‘‘Recreation
and Public Purposes Act’’) (44 Stat. 741,
chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(2) HUNTINGTON AIRPORT.—The approxi-
mately 320-acre parcel as generally depicted
on the Map, to Emery County, Utah, for ex-
pansion of Huntington Airport consistent
with uses allowed under the Act of June 14,
1926 (commonly known as the ‘‘Recreation
and Public Purposes Act’’) (44 Stat. 741,
chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(3) EMERY COUNTY SHERIFF’S OFFICE.—The
approximately 5-acre parcel as generally de-
picted on the Map, to Emery County, Utah,
for the Emery County Sheriff’s Office sub-
station consistent with uses allowed under
the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as
the ‘‘Recreation and Public Purposes Act’’)
(44 Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et
seq.).
(4) BUCKHORN INFORMATION CENTER.—The
approximately 5-acre parcel as generally de-
picted on the Map, to Emery County, Utah,
for the Buckhorn Information Center con-
sistent with uses allowed under the Act of
June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the
‘‘Recreation and Public Purposes Act’’) (44
Stat. 741, chapter 578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(b) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file a map and legal descrip-
tion of each parcel of land to be conveyed
under subsection (a) with—
(A) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives.
(2) EFFECT.—Each map and legal descrip-
tion filed under paragraph (1) shall have the
same force and effect as if included in this
part, except that the Secretary may correct
clerical or typographical errors in the map
and legal description.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Each map and
legal description filed under paragraph (1)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the Price Field Office of the Bu-
reau of Land Management.
(c) REVERSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If a parcel of land con-
veyed under subsection (a) is used for a pur-
pose other than the purpose described in that
subsection, the parcel of land shall, at the
discretion of the Secretary, revert to the
United States.
(2) RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMEDIATION.—In
the case of a reversion under paragraph (1), if
the Secretary determines that the parcel of
land is contaminated with hazardous waste,
the local governmental entity to which the
parcel of land was conveyed under subsection
(a) shall be responsible for remediation.
SEC. 1255. EXCHANGE OF BLM AND SCHOOL AND
INSTITUTIONAL TRUST LANDS AD-
MINISTRATION LAND.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) EXCHANGE MAP.—The term ‘‘Exchange
Map’’ means the map prepared by the Bureau
of Land Management entitled ‘‘Emery Coun-
ty Public Land Management Act—Proposed
Land Exchange’’ and dated December, 10,
2018.
(2) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means public land located in the State
of Utah that is identified on the Exchange
Map as—
(A) ‘‘BLM Surface and Mineral Lands Pro-
posed for Transfer to SITLA’’;
(B) ‘‘BLM Mineral Lands Proposed for
Transfer to SITLA’’; and
(C) ‘‘BLM Surface Lands Proposed for
Transfer to SITLA’’.
(3) NON-FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal land’’ means the land owned by the
State in the Emery and Uintah Counties
that is identified on the Exchange Map as—
(A) ‘‘SITLA Surface and Mineral Land Pro-
posed for Transfer to BLM’’;
(B) ‘‘SITLA Mineral Lands Proposed for
Transfer to BLM’’; and
(C) ‘‘SITLA Surface Lands Proposed for
Transfer to BLM’’.
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State, acting through the School and Insti-
tutional Trust Lands Administration.
(b) EXCHANGE OF FEDERAL LAND AND NON-
FEDERAL LAND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the State offers to con-
vey to the United States title to the non-
Federal land, the Secretary, in accordance
with this section, shall—
(A) accept the offer; and
(B) on receipt of all right, title, and inter-
est in and to the non-Federal land, convey to
the State (or a designee) all right, title, and
interest of the United States in and to the
Federal land.
(2) CONVEYANCE OF PARCELS IN PHASES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding that ap-
praisals for all of the parcels of Federal land
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1059
February 7, 2019
and non-Federal land may not have been ap-
proved under subsection (c)(5), parcels of the
Federal land and non-Federal land may be
exchanged under paragraph (1) in phases, to
be mutually agreed by the Secretary and the
State, beginning on the date on which the
appraised values of the parcels included in
the applicable phase are approved.
(B) NO AGREEMENT ON EXCHANGE.—If any
dispute or delay arises with respect to the
exchange of an individual parcel of Federal
land or non-Federal land under paragraph
(1), the Secretary and the State may mutu-
ally agree to set aside the individual parcel
to allow the exchange of the other parcels of
Federal land and non-Federal land to pro-
ceed.
(3) EXCLUSION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ex-
clude from any conveyance of a parcel of
Federal land under paragraph (1) any Federal
land that contains critical habitat des-
ignated for a species listed as an endangered
species or a threatened species under the En-
dangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et
seq.).
(B) REQUIREMENT.—Any Federal land ex-
cluded under subparagraph (A) shall be the
smallest area necessary to protect the appli-
cable critical habitat.
(4) APPLICABLE LAW.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The land exchange under
paragraph (1) shall be subject to section 206
of the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716) and other applica-
ble law.
(B) LAND USE PLANNING.—With respect to
the Federal land to be conveyed under para-
graph (1), the Secretary shall not be required
to undertake any additional land use plan-
ning under section 202 of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1712) before the conveyance of the
Federal land.
(5) VALID EXISTING RIGHTS.—The land ex-
change under paragraph (1) shall be subject
to valid existing rights.
(6) TITLE APPROVAL.—Title to the Federal
land and non-Federal land to be exchanged
under paragraph (1) shall be in a form ac-
ceptable to the Secretary and the State.
(c) APPRAISALS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The value of the Federal
land and the non-Federal land to be ex-
changed under subsection (b)(1) shall be de-
termined by appraisals conducted by 1 or
more independent and qualified appraisers.
(2) STATE APPRAISER.—The Secretary and
the State may agree to use an independent
and qualified appraiser—
(A) retained by the State; and
(B) approved by the Secretary.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The appraisals under
paragraph (1) shall be conducted in accord-
ance with nationally recognized appraisal
standards, including, as appropriate—
(A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(B) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(4) MINERALS.—
(A) MINERAL REPORTS.—The appraisals
under paragraph (1) may take into account
mineral and technical reports provided by
the Secretary and the State in the evalua-
tion of mineral deposits in the Federal land
and non-Federal land.
(B) MINING CLAIMS.—To the extent permis-
sible under applicable appraisal standards,
the appraisal of any parcel of Federal land
that is encumbered by a mining or millsite
claim located under sections 2318 through
2352 of the Revised Statutes (commonly
known as the ‘‘Mining Law of 1872’’) (30
U.S.C. 21 et seq.) shall be appraised in ac-
cordance with standard appraisal practices,
including, as appropriate, the Uniform Ap-
praisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisi-
tion.
(C) VALIDITY EXAMINATIONS.—Nothing in
this subsection requires the United States to
conduct a mineral examination for any min-
ing claim on the Federal land.
(D) ADJUSTMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—If value is attributed to
any parcel of Federal land because of the
presence of minerals subject to leasing under
the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et
seq.), the value of the parcel (as otherwise
established under this subsection) shall be
reduced by the percentage of the applicable
Federal revenue sharing obligation under
section 35(a) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30
U.S.C. 191(a)).
(ii) LIMITATION.—An adjustment under
clause (i) shall not be considered to be a
property right of the State.
(5) APPROVAL.—An appraisal conducted
under paragraph (1) shall be submitted to the
Secretary and the State for approval.
(6) DURATION.—An appraisal conducted
under paragraph (1) shall remain valid for 3
years after the date on which the appraisal is
approved by the Secretary and the State.
(7) COST OF APPRAISAL.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The cost of an appraisal
conducted under paragraph (1) shall be paid
equally by the Secretary and the State.
(B) REIMBURSEMENT BY SECRETARY.—If the
State retains an appraiser in accordance
with paragraph (2), the Secretary shall reim-
burse the State in an amount equal to 50 per-
cent of the costs incurred by the State.
(d) CONVEYANCE OF TITLE.—It is the intent
of Congress that the land exchange author-
ized under subsection (b)(1) shall be com-
pleted not later than 1 year after the date of
final approval by the Secretary and the
State of the appraisals conducted under sub-
section (c).
(e) PUBLIC INSPECTION AND NOTICE.—
(1) PUBLIC INSPECTION.—Not later than 30
days before the date of any exchange of Fed-
eral land and non-Federal land under sub-
section (b)(1), all final appraisals and ap-
praisal reviews for the land to be exchanged
shall be available for public review at the of-
fice of the State Director of the Bureau of
Land Management in the State of Utah.
(2) NOTICE.—The Secretary shall make
available on the public website of the Sec-
retary, and the Secretary or the State, as ap-
plicable, shall publish in a newspaper of gen-
eral circulation in Salt Lake County, Utah,
a notice that the appraisals conducted under
subsection (c) are available for public inspec-
tion.
(f) EQUAL VALUE EXCHANGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The value of the Federal
land and non-Federal land to be exchanged
under subsection (b)(1)—
(A) shall be equal; or
(B) shall be made equal in accordance with
paragraph (2).
(2) EQUALIZATION.—
(A) SURPLUS OF FEDERAL LAND.—With re-
spect to any Federal land and non-Federal
land to be exchanged under subsection (b)(1),
if the value of the Federal land exceeds the
value of the non-Federal land, the value of
the Federal land and non-Federal land shall
be equalized by—
(i) the State conveying to the Secretary, as
necessary to equalize the value of the Fed-
eral land and non-Federal land, after the ac-
quisition of all State trust land located with-
in the wilderness areas or recreation area
designated by this part, State trust land lo-
cated within any of the wilderness areas or
national conservation areas in Washington
County, Utah, established under subtitle O of
title I of the Omnibus Public Land Manage-
ment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–11; 123 Stat.
1075); and
(ii) the State, to the extent necessary to
equalize any remaining imbalance of value
after all available Washington County, Utah,
land described in clause (i) has been con-
veyed to the Secretary, conveying to the
Secretary additional State trust land as
identified and agreed on by the Secretary
and the State.
(B) SURPLUS OF NON-FEDERAL LAND.—If the
value of the non-Federal land exceeds the
value of the Federal land, the value of the
Federal land and the non-Federal land shall
be equalized—
(i) by the Secretary making a cash equali-
zation payment to the State, in accordance
with section 206(b) of the Federal Land Pol-
icy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C.
1716(b)); or
(ii) by removing non-Federal land from the
exchange.
(g) INDIAN TRIBES.—The Secretary shall
consult with any federally recognized Indian
Tribe in the vicinity of the Federal land and
non-Federal land to be exchanged under sub-
section (b)(1) before the completion of the
land exchange.
(h) APPURTENANT WATER RIGHTS.—Any
conveyance of a parcel of Federal land or
non-Federal land under subsection (b)(1)
shall include the conveyance of water rights
appurtenant to the parcel conveyed.
(i) GRAZING PERMITS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Federal land or non-
Federal land exchanged under subsection
(b)(1) is subject to a lease, permit, or con-
tract for the grazing of domestic livestock in
effect on the date of acquisition, the Sec-
retary and the State shall allow the grazing
to continue for the remainder of the term of
the lease, permit, or contract, subject to the
related terms and conditions of user agree-
ments, including permitted stocking rates,
grazing fee levels, access rights, and owner-
ship and use of range improvements.
(2) RENEWAL.—To the extent allowed by
Federal or State law, on expiration of any
grazing lease, permit, or contract described
in paragraph (1), the holder of the lease, per-
mit, or contract shall be entitled to a pref-
erence right to renew the lease, permit, or
contract.
(3) CANCELLATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
prevents the Secretary or the State from
canceling or modifying a grazing permit,
lease, or contract if the Federal land or non-
Federal land subject to the permit, lease, or
contract is sold, conveyed, transferred, or
leased for non-grazing purposes by the Sec-
retary or the State.
(B) LIMITATION.—Except to the extent rea-
sonably necessary to accommodate surface
operations in support of mineral develop-
ment, the Secretary or the State shall not
cancel or modify a grazing permit, lease, or
contract because the land subject to the per-
mit, lease, or contract has been leased for
mineral development.
(4) BASE PROPERTIES.—If non-Federal land
conveyed by the State under subsection
(b)(1) is used by a grazing permittee or lessee
to meet the base property requirements for a
Federal grazing permit or lease, the land
shall continue to qualify as a base property
for—
(A) the remaining term of the lease or per-
mit; and
(B) the term of any renewal or extension of
the lease or permit.
(j) WITHDRAWAL OF FEDERAL LAND FROM
MINERAL ENTRY PRIOR TO EXCHANGE.—Sub-
ject to valid existing rights, the Federal land
to be conveyed to the State under subsection
(b)(1) is withdrawn from mineral location,
entry, and patent under the mining laws
pending conveyance of the Federal land to
the State.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1060 February 7, 2019
Subtitle D—Wild and Scenic Rivers
SEC. 1301. LOWER FARMINGTON RIVER AND
SALMON BROOK WILD AND SCENIC
RIVER.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds that—
(1) the Lower Farmington River and Salm-
on Brook Study Act of 2005 (Public Law 109–
370) authorized the study of the Farmington
River downstream from the segment des-
ignated as a recreational river by section
3(a)(156) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
(16 U.S.C. 1277(a)(156)) to its confluence with
the Connecticut River, and the segment of
the Salmon Brook including its main stem
and east and west branches for potential in-
clusion in the National Wild and Scenic Riv-
ers System;
(2) the studied segments of the Lower
Farmington River and Salmon Brook sup-
port natural, cultural, and recreational re-
sources of exceptional significance to the
citizens of Connecticut and the Nation;
(3) concurrently with the preparation of
the study, the Lower Farmington River and
Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic Study Com-
mittee prepared the Lower Farmington
River and Salmon Brook Management Plan,
June 2011 (referred to in this section as the
‘‘management plan’’), that establishes objec-
tives, standards, and action programs that
will ensure the long-term protection of the
outstanding values of the river segments
without Federal management of affected
lands not owned by the United States;
(4) the Lower Farmington River and Salm-
on Brook Wild and Scenic Study Committee
has voted in favor of Wild and Scenic River
designation for the river segments, and has
included this recommendation as an integral
part of the management plan;
(5) there is strong local support for the pro-
tection of the Lower Farmington River and
Salmon Brook, including votes of support for
Wild and Scenic designation from the gov-
erning bodies of all ten communities abut-
ting the study area;
(6) the State of Connecticut General As-
sembly has endorsed the designation of the
Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook
as components of the National Wild and Sce-
nic Rivers System (Public Act 08–37); and
(7) the Rainbow Dam and Reservoir are lo-
cated entirely outside of the river segment
designated by subsection (b), and, based on
the findings of the study of the Lower Farm-
ington River pursuant to Public Law 109–370,
this hydroelectric project (including all as-
pects of its facilities, operations, and trans-
mission lines) is compatible with the des-
ignation made by subsection (b).
(b) DESIGNATION.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
amended by section 1241(a)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(225) LOWER FARMINGTON RIVER AND SALM-
ON BROOK, CONNECTICUT.—Segments of the
main stem and its tributary, Salmon Brook,
totaling approximately 62 miles, to be ad-
ministered by the Secretary of the Interior
as follows:
‘‘(A) The approximately 27.2-mile segment
of the Farmington River beginning 0.2 miles
below the tailrace of the Lower Collinsville
Dam and extending to the site of the
Spoonville Dam in Bloomfield and East
Granby as a recreational river.
‘‘(B) The approximately 8.1-mile segment
of the Farmington River extending from 0.5
miles below the Rainbow Dam to the con-
fluence with the Connecticut River in Wind-
sor as a recreational river.
‘‘(C) The approximately 2.4-mile segment
of the main stem of Salmon Brook extending
from the confluence of the East and West
Branches to the confluence with the Farm-
ington River as a recreational river.
‘‘(D) The approximately 12.6-mile segment
of the West Branch of Salmon Brook extend-
ing from its headwaters in Hartland, Con-
necticut, to its confluence with the East
Branch of Salmon Brook as a recreational
river.
‘‘(E) The approximately 11.4-mile segment
of the East Branch of Salmon Brook extend-
ing from the Massachusetts-Connecticut
State line to the confluence with the West
Branch of Salmon Brook as a recreational
river.’’.
(c) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The river segments des-
ignated by subsection (b) shall be managed
in accordance with the management plan
and such amendments to the management
plan as the Secretary determines are con-
sistent with this section. The management
plan shall be deemed to satisfy the require-
ments for a comprehensive management plan
pursuant to section 3(d) of the Wild and Sce-
nic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(d)).
(2) COMMITTEE.—The Secretary shall co-
ordinate the management responsibilities of
the Secretary under this section with the
Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook
Wild and Scenic Committee, as specified in
the management plan.
(3) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In order to provide for
the long-term protection, preservation, and
enhancement of the river segment des-
ignated by subsection (b), the Secretary is
authorized to enter into cooperative agree-
ments pursuant to sections 10(e) and 11(b)(1)
of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1281(e), 1282(b)(1)) with—
(i) the State of Connecticut;
(ii) the towns of Avon, Bloomfield, Bur-
lington, East Granby, Farmington, Granby,
Hartland, Simsbury, and Windsor in Con-
necticut; and
(iii) appropriate local planning and envi-
ronmental organizations.
(B) CONSISTENCY.—All cooperative agree-
ments provided for under this section shall
be consistent with the management plan and
may include provisions for financial or other
assistance from the United States.
(4) LAND MANAGEMENT.—
(A) ZONING ORDINANCES.—For the purposes
of the segments designated in subsection (b),
the zoning ordinances adopted by the towns
in Avon, Bloomfield, Burlington, East Gran-
by, Farmington, Granby, Hartland,
Simsbury, and Windsor in Connecticut, in-
cluding provisions for conservation of
floodplains, wetlands, and watercourses asso-
ciated with the segments, shall be deemed to
satisfy the standards and requirements of
section 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act (16 U.S.C. 1277(c)).
(B) ACQUISITION OF LAND.—The provisions
of section 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act (16 U.S.C. 1277(c)) that prohibit Federal
acquisition of lands by condemnation shall
apply to the segments designated in sub-
section (b). The authority of the Secretary
to acquire lands for the purposes of the seg-
ments designated in subsection (b) shall be
limited to acquisition by donation or acqui-
sition with the consent of the owner of the
lands, and shall be subject to the additional
criteria set forth in the management plan.
(5) RAINBOW DAM.—The designation made
by subsection (b) shall not be construed to—
(A) prohibit, pre-empt, or abridge the po-
tential future licensing of the Rainbow Dam
and Reservoir (including any and all aspects
of its facilities, operations and transmission
lines) by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission as a federally licensed hydro-
electric generation project under the Federal
Power Act (16 U.S.C. 791a et seq.), provided
that the Commission may, in the discretion
of the Commission and consistent with this
section, establish such reasonable terms and
conditions in a hydropower license for Rain-
bow Dam as are necessary to reduce impacts
identified by the Secretary as invading or
unreasonably diminishing the scenic, rec-
reational, and fish and wildlife values of the
segments designated by subsection (b); or
(B) affect the operation of, or impose any
flow or release requirements on, the unli-
censed hydroelectric facility at Rainbow
Dam and Reservoir.
(6) RELATION TO NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM.—
Notwithstanding section 10(c) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(c)), the
Lower Farmington River shall not be admin-
istered as part of the National Park System
or be subject to regulations which govern the
National Park System.
(d) FARMINGTON RIVER, CONNECTICUT, DES-
IGNATION REVISION.—Section 3(a)(156) of the
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)(156)) is amended in the first sen-
tence—
(1) by striking ‘‘14-mile’’ and inserting
‘‘15.1-mile’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘to the downstream end of
the New Hartford-Canton, Connecticut town
line’’ and inserting ‘‘to the confluence with
the Nepaug River’’.
SEC. 1302. WOOD-PAWCATUCK WATERSHED WILD
AND SCENIC RIVER SEGMENTS.
(a) DESIGNATION.—Section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
amended by section 1301(b)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(226) WOOD-PAWCATUCK WATERSHED, RHODE
ISLAND AND CONNECTICUT.—The following
river segments within the Wood-Pawcatuck
watershed, to be administered by the Sec-
retary of the Interior, in cooperation with
the Wood-Pawcatuck Wild and Scenic Rivers
Stewardship Council:
‘‘(A) The approximately 11-mile segment of
the Beaver River from its headwaters in Exe-
ter and West Greenwich, Rhode Island, to its
confluence with the Pawcatuck River in
Richmond, Rhode Island, as a scenic river.
‘‘(B) The approximately 3-mile segment of
the Chipuxet River from the Kingstown Road
Bridge, South Kingstown, Rhode Island, to
its outlet in Worden Pond, as a wild river.
‘‘(C) The approximately 9-mile segment of
the Green Fall River from its headwaters in
Voluntown, Connecticut, to its confluence
with the Ashaway River in Hopkinton,
Rhode Island, as a scenic river.
‘‘(D) The approximately 3-mile segment of
the Ashaway River from its confluence with
the Green Fall River to its confluence with
the Pawcatuck River in Hopkinton, Rhode
Island, as a recreational river.
‘‘(E) The approximately 3-mile segment of
the Pawcatuck River from the Worden Pond
outlet in South Kingstown, Rhode Island, to
the South County Trail Bridge, Charlestown
and South Kingstown, Rhode Island, as a
wild river.
‘‘(F) The approximately 4-mile segment of
the Pawcatuck River from South County
Trail Bridge, Charlestown and South
Kingstown, Rhode Island, to the Carolina
Back Road Bridge in Richmond and Charles-
town, Rhode Island, as a recreational river.
‘‘(G) The approximately 21-mile segment of
the Pawcatuck River from Carolina Back
Road Bridge in Richmond and Charlestown,
Rhode Island, to the confluence with
Shunock River in Stonington, Connecticut,
as a scenic river.
‘‘(H) The approximately 8-mile segment of
the Pawcatuck River from the confluence
with Shunock River in Stonington, Con-
necticut, to the mouth of the river between
Pawcatuck Point in Stonington, Con-
necticut, and Rhodes Point in Westerly,
Rhode Island, as a recreational river.
‘‘(I) The approximately 11-mile segment of
the Queen River from its headwaters in Exe-
ter and West Greenwich, Rhode Island, to the
Kingstown Road Bridge in South Kingstown,
Rhode Island, as a scenic river.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1061
February 7, 2019
‘‘(J) The approximately 5-mile segment of
the Usquepaugh River from the Kingstown
Road Bridge to its confluence with the
Pawcatuck River in South Kingstown, Rhode
Island, as a wild river.
‘‘(K) The approximately 8-mile segment of
the Shunock River from its headwaters in
North Stonington, Connecticut, to its con-
fluence with the Pawcatuck River as a rec-
reational river.
‘‘(L) The approximately 13-mile segment of
the Wood River from its headwaters in Ster-
ling and Voluntown, Connecticut, and Exeter
and West Greenwich, Rhode Island, to the
Arcadia Road Bridge in Hopkinton and Rich-
mond, Rhode Island, as a wild river.
‘‘(M) The approximately 11-mile segment
of the Wood River from the Arcadia Road
Bridge in Hopkinton and Richmond, Rhode
Island, to the confluence with the
Pawcatuck River in Charlestown,
Hopkinton, and Richmond, Rhode Island, as
a recreational river.’’.
(b) MANAGEMENT OF RIVER SEGMENTS.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) COVERED TRIBUTARY.—The term ‘‘cov-
ered tributary’’ means—
(i) each of Assekonk Brook, Breakheart
Brook, Brushy Brook, Canochet Brook,
Chickasheen Brook, Cedar Swamp Brook,
Fisherville Brook, Glade Brook, Glen Rock
Brook, Kelly Brook, Locke Brook, Meadow
Brook, Pendleton Brook, Parris Brook,
Passquisett Brook, Phillips Brook, Poquiant
Brook, Queens Fort Brook, Roaring Brook,
Sherman Brook, Taney Brook, Tomaquag
Brook, White Brook, and Wyassup Brook
within the Wood-Pawcatuck watershed; and
(ii) any other perennial stream within the
Wood-Pawcatuck watershed.
(B) RIVER SEGMENT.—The term ‘‘river seg-
ment’’ means a river segment designated by
paragraph (226) of section 3(a) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
added by subsection (a)).
(C) STEWARDSHIP PLAN.—The term ‘‘Stew-
ardship Plan’’ means the plan entitled the
‘‘Wood-Pawcatuck Wild and Scenic Rivers
Stewardship Plan for the Beaver, Chipuxet,
Green Fall-Ashaway, Pawcatuck, Queen-
Usquepaugh, Shunock, and Wood Rivers’’
and dated June 2018, which takes a watershed
approach to the management of the river
segments.
(2) WOOD-PAWCATUCK WILD AND SCENIC RIV-
ERS STEWARDSHIP PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in co-
operation with the Wood-Pawcatuck Wild
and Scenic Rivers Stewardship Council, shall
manage the river segments in accordance
with—
(i) the Stewardship Plan; and
(ii) any amendment to the Stewardship
Plan that the Secretary determines is con-
sistent with this subsection.
(B) WATERSHED APPROACH.—In furtherance
of the watershed approach to resource pres-
ervation and enhancement described in the
Stewardship Plan, the covered tributaries
are recognized as integral to the protection
and enhancement of the river segments.
(C) REQUIREMENTS FOR COMPREHENSIVE
MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The Stewardship Plan
shall be considered to satisfy each require-
ment for a comprehensive management plan
required under section 3(d) of the Wild and
Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(d)).
(3) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—To provide
for the long-term protection, preservation,
and enhancement of each river segment, in
accordance with sections 10(e) and 11(b)(1) of
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1281(e), 1282(b)(1)), the Secretary may enter
into cooperative agreements (which may in-
clude provisions for financial or other assist-
ance from the Federal Government) with—
(A) the States of Connecticut and Rhode
Island;
(B) political subdivisions of the States of
Connecticut and Rhode Island, including—
(i) the towns of North Stonington, Ster-
ling, Stonington, and Voluntown, Con-
necticut; and
(ii) the towns of Charlestown, Exeter,
Hopkinton, North Kingstown, Richmond,
South Kingstown, Westerly, and West
Kingstown, Rhode Island;
(C) the Wood-Pawcatuck Wild and Scenic
Rivers Stewardship Council; and
(D) any appropriate nonprofit organiza-
tion, as determined by the Secretary.
(4) RELATION TO NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM.—
Notwithstanding section 10(c) of the Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(c)),
each river segment shall not be—
(A) administered as a unit of the National
Park System; or
(B) subject to the laws (including regula-
tions) that govern the administration of the
National Park System.
(5) LAND MANAGEMENT.—
(A) ZONING ORDINANCES.—The zoning ordi-
nances adopted by the towns of North
Stonington, Sterling, Stonington, and
Voluntown, Connecticut, and Charlestown,
Exeter, Hopkinton, North Kingstown, Rich-
mond, South Kingstown, Westerly, and West
Greenwich, Rhode Island (including any pro-
vision of the zoning ordinances relating to
the conservation of floodplains, wetlands,
and watercourses associated with any river
segment), shall be considered to satisfy the
standards and requirements described in sec-
tion 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
(16 U.S.C. 1277(c)).
(B) VILLAGES.—For purposes of section 6(c)
of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1277(c)), each town described in subparagraph
(A) shall be considered to be a village.
(C) ACQUISITION OF LAND.—
(i) LIMITATION OF AUTHORITY OF SEC-
RETARY.—With respect to each river seg-
ment, the Secretary may only acquire par-
cels of land—
(I) by donation; or
(II) with the consent of the owner of the
parcel of land.
(ii) PROHIBITION RELATING TO THE ACQUISI-
TION OF LAND BY CONDEMNATION.—In accord-
ance with 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act (16 U.S.C. 1277(c)), with respect to each
river segment, the Secretary may not ac-
quire any parcel of land by condemnation.
SEC. 1303. NASHUA WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS,
MASSACHUSETTS AND NEW HAMP-
SHIRE.
(a) DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVER
SEGMENTS.—Section 3(a) of the Wild and Sce-
nic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as amended
by section 1302(a)) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(227) NASHUA, SQUANNACOOK, AND
NISSITISSIT WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS, MASSA-
CHUSETTS AND NEW HAMPSHIRE.—
‘‘(A) The following segments in the Com-
monwealth of Massachusetts and State of
New Hampshire, to be administered by the
Secretary of the Interior as a scenic river:
‘‘(i) The approximately 27-mile segment of
the mainstem of the Nashua River from the
confluence of the North and South Nashua
Rivers in Lancaster, Massachusetts, and ex-
tending north to the Massachusetts-New
Hampshire border, except as provided in sub-
paragraph (B).
‘‘(ii) The approximately 16.3-mile segment
of the Squannacook River from its head-
waters in Ash Swamp, Townsend, Massachu-
setts, extending downstream to the con-
fluence of the river with the Nashua River in
Shirley/Ayer, Massachusetts, except as pro-
vided in subparagraph (B).
‘‘(iii) The approximately 9.5-mile segment
of the Nissitissit River from its headwaters
in Brookline, New Hampshire, to the con-
fluence of the river with the Nashua River in
Pepperell, Massachusetts.
‘‘(B) EXCLUSION AREAS.—The designation of
the river segments in subparagraph (A) shall
exclude—
‘‘(i) with respect to the Ice House hydro-
electric project (FERC P–12769), from 700 feet
upstream from the crest of the dam to 500
feet downstream from the crest of the dam;
‘‘(ii) with respect to the Pepperell hydro-
electric project (FERC P12721), from 9,240
feet upstream from the crest of the dam to
1,000 feet downstream from the crest of the
dam; and
‘‘(iii) with respect to the Hollingsworth
and Vose dam (non-FERC), from 1,200 feet
upstream from the crest of the dam to 2,665
feet downstream from the crest of the dam.’’.
(b) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) PROCESS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The river segments des-
ignated by paragraph (227) of section 3(a) of
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)) (as added by subsection (a)) shall be
managed in accordance with—
(i) the Nashua, Squannacook, and
Nissitissit Rivers Stewardship Plan devel-
oped pursuant to the study described in sec-
tion 5(b)(21) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers
Act (16 U.S.C. 1276(b)(21)) (referred to in this
subsection as the ‘‘management plan’’),
dated February 15, 2018; and
(ii) such amendments to the management
plan as the Secretary determines are con-
sistent with this section and as are approved
by the Nashua, Squannacook, and Nissitissit
Rivers Stewardship Council (referred to in
this subsection as the ‘‘Stewardship Coun-
cil’’).
(B) COMPREHENSIVE MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
The management plan shall be considered to
satisfy the requirements for a comprehensive
management plan under section 3(d) of the
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(d)).
(2) COMMITTEE.—The Secretary shall co-
ordinate the management responsibilities of
the Secretary under this section with the
Stewardship Council, as specified in the
management plan.
(3) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In order to provide for
the long-term protection, preservation, and
enhancement of the river segments des-
ignated by paragraph (227) of section 3(a) of
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)) (as added by subsection (a)), the Sec-
retary may enter into cooperative agree-
ments pursuant to sections 10(e) and 11(b)(1)
of that Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(e), 1282(b)(1))
with—
(i) the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
and the State of New Hampshire;
(ii) the municipalities of—
(I) Ayer, Bolton, Dunstable, Groton, Har-
vard, Lancaster, Pepperell, Shirley, and
Townsend in Massachusetts; and
(II) Brookline and Hollis in New Hamp-
shire; and
(iii) appropriate local, regional, State, or
multistate, planning, environmental, or rec-
reational organizations.
(B) CONSISTENCY.—Each cooperative agree-
ment entered into under this paragraph shall
be consistent with the management plan and
may include provisions for financial or other
assistance from the United States.
(4) EFFECT ON WORKING DAMS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The designation of the
river segments by paragraph (227) of section
3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16
U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by subsection (a)),
does not—
(i) impact or alter the existing terms of
permitting, licensing, or operation of—
(I) the Pepperell hydroelectric project
(FERC Project P–12721, Nashua River,
Pepperell, MA);
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1062 February 7, 2019
(II) the Ice House hydroelectric project
(FERC Project P–12769, Nashua River, Ayer,
MA); or
(III) the Hollingsworth and Vose Dam (non-
FERC industrial facility, Squannacook
River, West Groton, MA) as further described
in the management plan (Appendix A,
‘‘Working Dams’’); or
(ii) preclude the Federal Energy Regu-
latory Commission from licensing, reli-
censing, or otherwise authorizing the oper-
ation or continued operation of the Pepperell
and Ice House hydroelectric projects under
the terms of licenses or exemptions in effect
on the date of enactment of this Act; or
(iii) limit actions taken to modernize, up-
grade, or carry out other changes to such
projects authorized pursuant to clause (i),
subject to written determination by the Sec-
retary that the changes are consistent with
the purposes of the designation.
(5) LAND MANAGEMENT.—
(A) ZONING ORDINANCES.—For the purpose
of the segments designated by paragraph
(227) of section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic
Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by
subsection (a)), the zoning ordinances adopt-
ed by the municipalities described in para-
graph (3)(A)(ii), including provisions for con-
servation of floodplains, wetlands, and wa-
tercourses associated with the segments,
shall be deemed to satisfy the standards and
requirements of section 6(c) of the Wild and
Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1277(c)).
(B) ACQUISITIONS OF LANDS.—The authority
of the Secretary to acquire land for the pur-
poses of the segments designated by para-
graph (227) of section 3(a) of the Wild and
Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as
added by subsection (a)) shall be—
(i) limited to acquisition by donation or
acquisition with the consent of the owner of
the land; and
(ii) subject to the additional criteria set
forth in the management plan.
(C) NO CONDEMNATION.—No land or interest
in land within the boundary of the river seg-
ments designated by paragraph (227) of sec-
tion 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) (as added by subsection (a))
may be acquired by condemnation.
(6) RELATION TO THE NATIONAL PARK SYS-
TEM.—Notwithstanding section 10(c) of the
Wild and Scenic Rivers Act(16 U.S.C. 1281(c)),
each segment of the Nashua, Squannacook,
and Nissitissit Rivers designated as a compo-
nent of the Wild and Scenic Rivers System
under this section shall not—
(A) be administered as a unit of the Na-
tional Park System; or
(B) be subject to regulations that govern
the National Park System.
Subtitle E—California Desert Protection and
Recreation
SEC. 1401. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) CONSERVATION AREA.—The term ‘‘Con-
servation Area’’ means the California Desert
Conservation Area.
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means—
(A) the Secretary, with respect to land ad-
ministered by the Department of the Inte-
rior; or
(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to National Forest System land.
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of California.
PART I—DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS
IN THE CALIFORNIA DESERT CON-
SERVATION AREA
SEC. 1411. CALIFORNIA DESERT CONSERVATION
AND RECREATION.
(a) DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS TO
BE ADMINISTERED BY THE BUREAU OF LAND
MANAGEMENT.—Section 102 of the California
Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132
note; Public Law 103–433; 108 Stat. 4472) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(70) AVAWATZ MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—
Certain land in the California Desert Con-
servation Area administered by the Director
of the Bureau of Land Management, com-
prising approximately 89,500 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Avawatz Mountains Wilderness’ and
dated November 7, 2018, to be known as the
‘Avawatz Mountains Wilderness’.
‘‘(71) GREAT FALLS BASIN WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land in the California Desert Conserva-
tion Area administered by the Director of
the Bureau of Land Management, comprising
approximately 7,810 acres, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘Proposed Great
Falls Basin Wilderness’ and dated November
7, 2018, to be known as the ‘Great Falls Basin
Wilderness’.
‘‘(72) SODA MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—Cer-
tain land in the California Desert Conserva-
tion Area, administered by the Bureau of
Land Management, comprising approxi-
mately 80,090 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘Proposed Soda Mountains
Wilderness’ and dated November 7, 2018, to be
known as the ‘Soda Mountains Wilderness’.
‘‘(73) MILPITAS WASH WILDERNESS.—Certain
land in the California Desert Conservation
Area, administered by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
17,250 acres, depicted as ‘Proposed Milpitas
Wash Wilderness’ on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Vinagre Wash Special Management
Area and Proposed Wilderness’ and dated De-
cember 4, 2018, to be known as the ‘Milpitas
Wash Wilderness’.
‘‘(74) BUZZARDS PEAK WILDERNESS.—Certain
land in the California Desert Conservation
Area, administered by the Bureau of Land
Management, comprising approximately
11,840 acres, depicted as ‘Proposed Buzzards
Peak Wilderness’ on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Vinagre Wash Special Management
Area and Proposed Wilderness’ and dated De-
cember 4, 2018, to be known as the ‘Buzzards
Peak Wilderness’.’’.
(b) ADDITIONS TO EXISTING WILDERNESS
AREAS ADMINISTERED BY THE BUREAU OF
LAND MANAGEMENT.—In furtherance of the
purposes of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131
et seq.), the following land in the State is
designated as wilderness and as components
of the National Wilderness Preservation Sys-
tem:
(1) GOLDEN VALLEY WILDERNESS.—Certain
land in the Conservation Area administered
by the Director of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 1,250
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Proposed Golden Valley Wilderness Ad-
dition’’ and dated November 7, 2018, which
shall be added to and administered as part of
the ‘‘Golden Valley Wilderness’’.
(2) KINGSTON RANGE WILDERNESS.—Certain
land in the Conservation Area administered
by the Director of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, comprising approximately 52,410
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Proposed Kingston Range Wilderness
Additions’’ and dated November 7, 2018,
which shall be added to and administered as
part of the ‘‘Kingston Range Wilderness’’.
(3) PALO VERDE MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—
Certain land in the Conservation Area ad-
ministered by the Director of the Bureau of
Land Management, comprising approxi-
mately 9,350 acres, depicted as ‘‘Proposed
Palo Verde Mountains Wilderness Additions’’
on the map entitled ‘‘Proposed Vinagre Wash
Special Management Area and Proposed Wil-
derness’’ and dated December 4, 2018, which
shall be added to and administered as part of
the ‘‘Palo Verde Mountains Wilderness’’.
(4) INDIAN PASS MOUNTAINS WILDERNESS.—
Certain land in the Conservation Area ad-
ministered by the Director of the Bureau of
Land Management, comprising approxi-
mately 10,860 acres, depicted as ‘‘Proposed
Indian Pass Wilderness Additions’’ on the
map entitled ‘‘Proposed Vinagre Wash Spe-
cial Management Area and Proposed Wilder-
ness’’ and dated December 4, 2018, which
shall be added to and administered as part of
the ‘‘Indian Pass Mountains Wilderness’’.
(c) DESIGNATION OF WILDERNESS AREAS TO
BE ADMINISTERED BY THE NATIONAL PARK
SERVICE.—In furtherance of the purposes of
the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) the
following land in Death Valley National
Park is designated as wilderness and as a
component of the National Wilderness Pres-
ervation System, which shall be added to,
and administered as part of the Death Valley
National Park Wilderness established by sec-
tion 601(a)(1) of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public
Law 103–433; 108 Stat. 4496):
(1) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-NORTH EUREKA VALLEY.—Ap-
proximately 11,496 acres, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Death Valley
National Park Proposed Wilderness Area-
North Eureka Valley’’, numbered 143/
100,082D, and dated November 1, 2018.
(2) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-IBEX.—Approximately 23,650
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Death Valley National Park Proposed
Wilderness Area-Ibex’’, numbered 143/
100,081D, and dated November 1, 2018.
(3) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-PANAMINT VALLEY.—Approxi-
mately 4,807 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘‘Death Valley National
Park Proposed Wilderness Area-Panamint
Valley’’, numbered 143/100,083D, and dated
November 1, 2018.
(4) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-WARM SPRINGS.—Approxi-
mately 10,485 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘‘Death Valley National
Park Proposed Wilderness Area-Warm
Spring Canyon/Galena Canyon’’, numbered
143/100,084D, and dated November 1, 2018.
(5) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-AXE HEAD.—Approximately
8,638 acres, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Death Valley National Park Pro-
posed Wilderness Area-Axe Head’’, numbered
143/100,085D, and dated November 1, 2018.
(6) DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK WILDER-
NESS ADDITIONS-BOWLING ALLEY.—Approxi-
mately 28,923 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘‘Death Valley National
Park Proposed Wilderness Area-Bowling
Alley’’, numbered 143/128,606A, and dated No-
vember 1, 2018.
(d) ADDITIONS TO EXISTING WILDERNESS
AREA ADMINISTERED BY THE FOREST SERV-
ICE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In furtherance of the pur-
poses of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.), the land described in paragraph (2)—
(A) is designated as wilderness and as a
component of the National Wilderness Pres-
ervation System; and
(B) shall be added to and administered as
part of the San Gorgonio Wilderness estab-
lished by the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131
et seq.).
(2) DESCRIPTION OF LAND.—The land re-
ferred to in paragraph (1) is certain land in
the San Bernardino National Forest, com-
prising approximately 7,141 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘‘San
Gorgonio Wilderness Additions—Proposed’’
and dated November 7, 2018.
(3) FIRE MANAGEMENT AND RELATED ACTIVI-
TIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may carry
out such activities in the wilderness area
designated by paragraph (1) as are necessary
for the control of fire, insects, and disease, in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1063
February 7, 2019
accordance with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilder-
ness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and House Re-
port 98–40 of the 98th Congress.
(B) FUNDING PRIORITIES.—Nothing in this
subsection limits the provision of any fund-
ing for fire or fuel management in the wil-
derness area designated by paragraph (1).
(C) REVISION AND DEVELOPMENT OF LOCAL
FIRE MANAGEMENT PLANS.—As soon as prac-
ticable after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary shall amend the local fire
management plans that apply to the wilder-
ness area designated by paragraph (1).
(D) ADMINISTRATION.—In accordance with
subparagraph (A) and other applicable Fed-
eral law, to ensure a timely and efficient re-
sponse to fire emergencies in the wilderness
area designated by paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall—
(i) not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this Act, establish agency ap-
proval procedures (including appropriate del-
egations of authority to the Forest Super-
visor, District Manager, or other agency offi-
cials) for responding to fire emergencies in
the wilderness area designated by paragraph
(1); and
(ii) enter into agreements with appropriate
State or local firefighting agencies relating
to the wilderness area.
(e) EFFECT ON UTILITY FACILITIES AND
RIGHTS-OF-WAY.—Nothing in this section or
an amendment made by this section affects
or precludes the renewal or reauthorization
of any valid existing right-of-way or cus-
tomary operation, maintenance, repair, up-
grading, or replacement activities in a right-
of-way acquired by or issued, granted, or per-
mitted to the Southern California Edison
Company or successors or assigns of the
Southern California Edison Company.
(f) RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY
AREAS.—
(1) FINDING.—Congress finds that, for pur-
poses of section 603 of the Federal Land Pol-
icy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C.
1782), any portion of a wilderness study area
described in paragraph (2) that is not des-
ignated as a wilderness area or a wilderness
addition by this subtitle (including an
amendment made by this subtitle) or any
other Act enacted before the date of enact-
ment of this Act has been adequately studied
for wilderness designation.
(2) DESCRIPTION OF STUDY AREAS.—The
study areas referred to in subsection (a)
are—
(A) the Cady Mountains Wilderness Study
Area;
(B) the Soda Mountains Wilderness Study
Area;
(C) the Kingston Range Wilderness Study
Area;
(D) the Avawatz Mountain Wilderness
Study Area;
(E) the Death Valley 17 Wilderness Study
Area; and
(F) the Great Falls Basin Wilderness Study
Area.
(3) RELEASE.—The following are no longer
subject to section 603(c) of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1782(c)):
(A) Any portion of a wilderness study area
described in paragraph (2) that is not des-
ignated as a wilderness area or a wilderness
addition by this subtitle (including an
amendment made by this subtitle) or any
other Act enacted before the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(B) Any portion of a wilderness study area
described in paragraph (2) that is not trans-
ferred to the administrative jurisdiction of
the National Park Service for inclusion in a
unit of the National Park System by this
subtitle (including an amendment made by
this subtitle) or any other Act enacted be-
fore the date of enactment of this Act.
PART II—DESIGNATION OF SPECIAL
MANAGEMENT AREA
SEC. 1421. VINAGRE WASH SPECIAL MANAGE-
MENT AREA.
Title I of the California Desert Protection
Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law
103–433; 108 Stat. 4472) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 109. VINAGRE WASH SPECIAL MANAGE-
MENT AREA.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) MANAGEMENT AREA.—The term ‘Man-
agement Area’ means the Vinagre Wash Spe-
cial Management Area established by sub-
section (b).
‘‘(2) MAP.—The term ‘map’ means the map
entitled ‘Proposed Vinagre Wash Special
Management Area and Proposed Wilderness’
and dated December 4, 2018.
‘‘(3) PUBLIC LAND.—The term ‘public land’
has the meaning given the term ‘public
lands’ in section 103 of the Federal Land Pol-
icy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C.
1702).
‘‘(4) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means the
State of California.
‘‘(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
the Vinagre Wash Special Management Area
in the State, to be managed by the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(c) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Manage-
ment Area is to conserve, protect, and en-
hance—
‘‘(1) the plant and wildlife values of the
Management Area; and
‘‘(2) the outstanding and nationally signifi-
cant ecological, geological, scenic, rec-
reational, archaeological, cultural, historic,
and other resources of the Management
Area.
‘‘(d) BOUNDARIES.—The Management Area
shall consist of the public land in Imperial
County, California, comprising approxi-
mately 81,880 acres, as generally depicted on
the map as ‘Proposed Special Management
Area’.
‘‘(e) MAP; LEGAL DESCRIPTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable,
but not later than 3 years, after the date of
enactment of this section, the Secretary
shall submit a map and legal description of
the Management Area to—
‘‘(A) the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives; and
‘‘(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
‘‘(2) EFFECT.—The map and legal descrip-
tion submitted under paragraph (1) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this section, except that the Secretary
may correct any errors in the map and legal
description.
‘‘(3) AVAILABILITY.—Copies of the map sub-
mitted under paragraph (1) shall be on file
and available for public inspection in the ap-
propriate offices of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
‘‘(f) MANAGEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall
manage the Management Area—
‘‘(A) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the purposes for which the
Management Area is established; and
‘‘(B) in accordance with—
‘‘(i) this section;
‘‘(ii) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
‘‘(iii) other applicable laws.
‘‘(2) USES.—The Secretary shall allow only
those uses that are consistent with the pur-
poses of the Management Area, including
hiking, camping, hunting, and sightseeing
and the use of motorized vehicles, mountain
bikes, and horses on designated routes in the
Management Area in a manner that—
‘‘(A) is consistent with the purpose of the
Management Area described in subsection
(c);
‘‘(B) ensures public health and safety; and
‘‘(C) is consistent with all applicable laws
(including regulations), including the Desert
Renewable Energy Conservation Plan.
‘‘(3) OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE USE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subpara-
graphs (B) and (C) and all other applicable
laws, the use of off-highway vehicles shall be
permitted on routes in the Management Area
as generally depicted on the map.
‘‘(B) CLOSURE.—The Secretary may close or
permanently reroute a portion of a route de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)—
‘‘(i) to prevent, or allow for restoration of,
resource damage;
‘‘(ii) to protect Tribal cultural resources,
including the resources identified in the
Tribal cultural resources management plan
developed under section 705(d);
‘‘(iii) to address public safety concerns; or
‘‘(iv) as otherwise required by law.
‘‘(C) DESIGNATION OF ADDITIONAL ROUTES.—
During the 3-year period beginning on the
date of enactment of this section, the Sec-
retary—
‘‘(i) shall accept petitions from the public
regarding additional routes for off-highway
vehicles; and
‘‘(ii) may designate additional routes that
the Secretary determines—
‘‘(I) would provide significant or unique
recreational opportunities; and
‘‘(II) are consistent with the purposes of
the Management Area.
‘‘(4) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, all Federal land within the Man-
agement Area is withdrawn from—
‘‘(A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or
disposal under the public land laws;
‘‘(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(C) right-of-way, leasing, or disposition
under all laws relating to—
‘‘(i) minerals and mineral materials; or
‘‘(ii) solar, wind, and geothermal energy.
‘‘(5) NO BUFFER ZONE.—The establishment
of the Management Area shall not—
‘‘(A) create a protective perimeter or buff-
er zone around the Management Area; or
‘‘(B) preclude uses or activities outside the
Management Area that are permitted under
other applicable laws, even if the uses or ac-
tivities are prohibited within the Manage-
ment Area.
‘‘(6) NOTICE OF AVAILABLE ROUTES.—The
Secretary shall ensure that visitors to the
Management Area have access to adequate
notice relating to the availability of des-
ignated routes in the Management Area
through—
‘‘(A) the placement of appropriate signage
along the designated routes;
‘‘(B) the distribution of maps, safety edu-
cation materials, and other information that
the Secretary determines to be appropriate;
and
‘‘(C) restoration of areas that are not des-
ignated as open routes, including vertical
mulching.
‘‘(7) STEWARDSHIP.—The Secretary, in con-
sultation with Indian Tribes and other inter-
ests, shall develop a program to provide op-
portunities for monitoring and stewardship
of the Management Area to minimize envi-
ronmental impacts and prevent resource
damage from recreational use, including vol-
unteer assistance with—
‘‘(A) route signage;
‘‘(B) restoration of closed routes;
‘‘(C) protection of Management Area re-
sources; and
‘‘(D) recreation education.
‘‘(8) PROTECTION OF TRIBAL CULTURAL RE-
SOURCES.—Not later than 2 years after the
date of enactment of this section, the Sec-
retary, in accordance with chapter 2003 of
title 54, United States Code, and any other
applicable law, shall—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1064 February 7, 2019
‘‘(A) prepare and complete a Tribal cul-
tural resources survey of the Management
Area; and
‘‘(B) consult with the Quechan Indian Na-
tion and other Indian Tribes demonstrating
ancestral, cultural, or other ties to the re-
sources within the Management Area on the
development and implementation of the
Tribal cultural resources survey under sub-
paragraph (A).
‘‘(9) MILITARY USE.—The Secretary may au-
thorize use of the non-wilderness portion of
the Management Area by the Secretary of
the Navy for Naval Special Warfare Tactical
Training, including long-range small unit
training and navigation, vehicle conceal-
ment, and vehicle sustainment training, con-
sistent with this section and other applicable
laws.’’.
PART III—NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM
ADDITIONS
SEC. 1431. DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK
BOUNDARY REVISION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of Death
Valley National Park is adjusted to in-
clude—
(1) the approximately 28,923 acres of Bu-
reau of Land Management land in San
Bernardino County, California, abutting the
southern end of the Death Valley National
Park that lies between Death Valley Na-
tional Park to the north and Ft. Irwin Mili-
tary Reservation to the south and which
runs approximately 34 miles from west to
east, as depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Death
Valley National Park Proposed Boundary
Addition-Bowling Alley’’, numbered 143/
128,605A, and dated November 1, 2018; and
(2) the approximately 6,369 acres of Bureau
of Land Management land in Inyo County,
California, located in the northeast area of
Death Valley National Park that is within,
and surrounded by, land under the jurisdic-
tion of the Director of the National Park
Service, as depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Death Valley National Park Proposed
Boundary Addition-Crater’’, numbered 143/
100,079D, and dated November 1, 2018.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The maps de-
scribed in paragraphs (1) and (2) of sub-
section (a) shall be on file and available for
public inspection in the appropriate offices
of the National Park Service.
(c) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary—
(1) shall administer any land added to
Death Valley National Park under sub-
section (a)—
(A) as part of Death Valley National Park;
and
(B) in accordance with applicable laws (in-
cluding regulations); and
(2) may enter into a memorandum of un-
derstanding with Inyo County, California, to
permit operationally feasible, ongoing access
to and use (including material storage and
excavation) of existing gravel pits along Sa-
line Valley Road within Death Valley Na-
tional Park for road maintenance and re-
pairs in accordance with applicable laws (in-
cluding regulations).
(d) MORMON PEAK MICROWAVE FACILITY.—
Title VI of the California Desert Protection
Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law
103–433; 108 Stat. 4496) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 604. MORMON PEAK MICROWAVE FACILITY.
‘‘The designation of the Death Valley Na-
tional Park Wilderness by section 601(a)(1)
shall not preclude the operation and mainte-
nance of the Mormon Peak Microwave Facil-
ity.’’.
SEC. 1432. MOJAVE NATIONAL PRESERVE.
The boundary of the Mojave National Pre-
serve is adjusted to include the 25 acres of
Bureau of Land Management land in Baker,
California, as depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Mojave National Preserve Proposed Bound-
ary Addition’’, numbered 170/100,199A, and
dated November 1, 2018.
SEC. 1433. JOSHUA TREE NATIONAL PARK.
(a) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—The boundary
of the Joshua Tree National Park is adjusted
to include—
(1) the approximately 2,879 acres of land
managed by the Bureau of Land Management
that are depicted as ‘‘BLM Proposed Bound-
ary Addition’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Joshua
Tree National Park Proposed Boundary Ad-
ditions’’, numbered 156/149,375, and dated No-
vember 1, 2018; and
(2) the approximately 1,639 acres of land
that are depicted as ‘‘MDLT Proposed
Boundary Addition’’ on the map entitled
‘‘Joshua Tree National Park Proposed
Boundary Additions’’, numbered 156/149,375,
and dated November 1, 2018.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF MAPS.—The map de-
scribed in subsection (a) and the map depict-
ing the 25 acres described in subsection (c)(2)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the Na-
tional Park Service.
(c) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister any land added to the Joshua Tree
National Park under subsection (a) and the
additional land described in paragraph (2)—
(A) as part of Joshua Tree National Park;
and
(B) in accordance with applicable laws (in-
cluding regulations).
(2) DESCRIPTION OF ADDITIONAL LAND.—The
additional land referred to in paragraph (1) is
the 25 acres of land—
(A) depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Joshua
Tree National Park Boundary Adjustment
Map’’, numbered 156/80,049, and dated April 1,
2003;
(B) added to Joshua Tree National Park by
the notice of the Department of the Interior
of August 28, 2003 (68 Fed. Reg. 51799); and
(C) more particularly described as lots 26,
27, 28, 33, and 34 in sec. 34, T. 1 N., R. 8 E.,
San Bernardino Meridian.
(d) SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY
ENERGY TRANSPORT FACILITIES AND RIGHTS-
OF-WAY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section af-
fects any valid right-of-way for the cus-
tomary operation, maintenance, upgrade, re-
pair, relocation within an existing right-of-
way, replacement, or other authorized en-
ergy transport facility activities in a right-
of-way issued, granted, or permitted to the
Southern California Edison Company or the
successors or assigns of the Southern Cali-
fornia Edison Company that is located on
land described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of
subsection (a), including, at a minimum, the
use of mechanized vehicles, helicopters, or
other aerial devices.
(2) UPGRADES AND REPLACEMENTS.—Nothing
in this section prohibits the upgrading or re-
placement of—
(A) Southern California Edison Company
energy transport facilities, including the en-
ergy transport facilities referred to as the
Jellystone, Burnt Mountain, Whitehorn,
Allegra, and Utah distribution circuits
rights-of-way; or
(B) an energy transport facility in rights-
of-way issued, granted, or permitted by the
Secretary adjacent to Southern California
Edison Joshua Tree Utility Facilities.
(3) PUBLICATION OF PLANS.—Not later than
the date that is 1 year after the date of en-
actment of this Act or the issuance of a new
energy transport facility right-of-way within
the Joshua Tree National Park, whichever is
earlier, the Secretary, in consultation with
the Southern California Edison Company,
shall publish plans for regular and emer-
gency access by the Southern California Edi-
son Company to the rights-of-way of the
Southern California Edison Company within
Joshua Tree National Park.
(e) VISITOR CENTER.—Title IV of the Cali-
fornia Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16
U.S.C. 410aaa–21 et seq.) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 408. VISITOR CENTER.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may ac-
quire not more than 5 acres of land and in-
terests in land, and improvements on the
land and interests, outside the boundaries of
the park, in the unincorporated village of
Joshua Tree, for the purpose of operating a
visitor center.
‘‘(b) BOUNDARY.—The Secretary shall mod-
ify the boundary of the park to include the
land acquired under this section as a non-
contiguous parcel.
‘‘(c) ADMINISTRATION.—Land and facilities
acquired under this section—
‘‘(1) may include the property owned (as of
the date of enactment of this section) by the
Joshua Tree National Park Association and
commonly referred to as the ‘Joshua Tree
National Park Visitor Center’;
‘‘(2) shall be administered by the Secretary
as part of the park; and
‘‘(3) may be acquired only with the consent
of the owner, by donation, purchase with do-
nated or appropriated funds, or exchange.’’.
PART IV—OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE
RECREATION AREAS
SEC. 1441. OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION
AREAS.
Public Law 103–433 is amended by inserting
after title XII (16 U.S.C. 410bbb et seq.) the
following:
‘‘TITLE XIII—OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE
RECREATION AREAS
‘‘SEC. 1301. DESIGNATION OF OFF-HIGHWAY VEHI-
CLE RECREATION AREAS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(1) DESIGNATION.—In accordance with the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and resource man-
agement plans developed under this title and
subject to valid rights, the following land
within the Conservation Area in San
Bernardino County, California, is designated
as Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Areas:
‘‘(A) DUMONT DUNES OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE
RECREATION AREA.—Certain Bureau of Land
Management land in the Conservation Area,
comprising approximately 7,620 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Dumont Dunes OHV Recreation Area’
and dated November 7, 2018, which shall be
known as the ‘Dumont Dunes Off-Highway
Vehicle Recreation Area’.
‘‘(B) EL MIRAGE OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE
RECREATION AREA.—Certain Bureau of Land
Management land in the Conservation Area,
comprising approximately 16,370 acres, as
generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed El Mirage OHV Recreation Area’ and
dated December 10, 2018, which shall be
known as the ‘El Mirage Off-Highway Vehi-
cle Recreation Area’.
‘‘(C) RASOR OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECRE-
ATION AREA.—Certain Bureau of Land Man-
agement land in the Conservation Area, com-
prising approximately 23,900 acres, as gen-
erally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Rasor OHV Recreation Area’ and dated
November 7, 2018, which shall be known as
the ‘Rasor Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation
Area’.
‘‘(D) SPANGLER HILLS OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE
RECREATION AREA.—Certain Bureau of Land
Management land in the Conservation Area,
comprising approximately 92,340 acres, as
generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Spangler Hills OHV Recreation Area’
and dated December 10, 2018, which shall be
known as the ‘Spangler Hills Off-Highway
Vehicle Recreation Area’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1065
February 7, 2019
‘‘(E) STODDARD VALLEY OFF-HIGHWAY VEHI-
CLE RECREATION AREA.—Certain Bureau of
Land Management land in the Conservation
Area, comprising approximately 40,110 acres,
as generally depicted on the map entitled
‘Proposed Stoddard Valley OHV Recreation
Area’ and dated November 7, 2018, which
shall be known as the ‘Stoddard Valley Off-
Highway Vehicle Recreation Area’.
‘‘(2) EXPANSION OF JOHNSON VALLEY OFF-
HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION AREA.—The
Johnson Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recre-
ation Area designated by section 2945 of the
Military Construction Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of Public Law
113–66; 127 Stat. 1038) is expanded to include
approximately 20,240 acres, depicted as ‘Pro-
posed OHV Recreation Area Additions’ and
‘Proposed OHV Recreation Area Study
Areas’ on the map entitled ‘Proposed John-
son Valley OHV Recreation Area’ and dated
November 7, 2018.
‘‘(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the off-high-
way vehicle recreation areas designated or
expanded under subsection (a) is to preserve
and enhance the recreational opportunities
within the Conservation Area (including op-
portunities for off-highway vehicle recre-
ation), while conserving the wildlife and
other natural resource values of the Con-
servation Area.
‘‘(c) MAPS AND DESCRIPTIONS.—
‘‘(1) PREPARATION AND SUBMISSION.—As
soon as practicable after the date of enact-
ment of this title, the Secretary shall file a
map and legal description of each off-high-
way vehicle recreation area designated or ex-
panded by subsection (a) with—
‘‘(A) the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives; and
‘‘(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
‘‘(2) LEGAL EFFECT.—The map and legal de-
scriptions of the off-highway vehicle recre-
ation areas filed under paragraph (1) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this title, except that the Secretary may
correct errors in the map and legal descrip-
tions.
‘‘(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Each map and
legal description filed under paragraph (1)
shall be filed and made available for public
inspection in the appropriate offices of the
Bureau of Land Management.
‘‘(d) USE OF THE LAND.—
‘‘(1) RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
tinue to authorize, maintain, and enhance
the recreational uses of the off-highway ve-
hicle recreation areas designated or ex-
panded by subsection (a), as long as the rec-
reational use is consistent with this section
and any other applicable law.
‘‘(B) OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE AND OFF-HIGH-
WAY RECREATION.—To the extent consistent
with applicable Federal law (including regu-
lations) and this section, any authorized
recreation activities and use designations in
effect on the date of enactment of this title
and applicable to the off-highway vehicle
recreation areas designated or expanded by
subsection (a) shall continue, including cas-
ual off-highway vehicular use, racing, com-
petitive events, rock crawling, training, and
other forms of off-highway recreation.
‘‘(2) WILDLIFE GUZZLERS.—Wildlife guzzlers
shall be allowed in the off-highway vehicle
recreation areas designated or expanded by
subsection (a) in accordance with—
‘‘(A) applicable Bureau of Land Manage-
ment guidelines; and
‘‘(B) State law.
‘‘(3) PROHIBITED USES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), commercial development
(including development of energy facilities,
but excluding energy transport facilities,
rights-of-way, and related telecommuni-
cation facilities) shall be prohibited in the
off-highway vehicle recreation areas des-
ignated or expanded by subsection (a) if the
Secretary determines that the development
is incompatible with the purpose described
in subsection (b).
‘‘(B) EXCEPTION.—The Secretary may issue
a temporary permit to a commercial vendor
to provide accessories and other support for
off-highway vehicle use in an off-highway ve-
hicle recreation area designated or expanded
by subsection (a) for a limited period and
consistent with the purposes of the off-high-
way vehicle recreation area and applicable
laws.
‘‘(e) ADMINISTRATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the off-highway vehicle recreation
areas designated or expanded by subsection
(a) in accordance with—
‘‘(A) this title;
‘‘(B) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
‘‘(C) any other applicable laws (including
regulations).
‘‘(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable,
but not later than 3 years after the date of
enactment of this title, the Secretary shall—
‘‘(i) amend existing resource management
plans applicable to the off-highway vehicle
recreation areas designated or expanded by
subsection (a); or
‘‘(ii) develop new management plans for
each off-highway vehicle recreation area des-
ignated or expanded under that subsection.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS.—All new or amended
plans under subparagraph (A) shall be de-
signed to preserve and enhance safe off-high-
way vehicle and other recreational opportu-
nities within the applicable recreation area
consistent with—
‘‘(i) the purpose described in subsection (b);
and
‘‘(ii) any applicable laws (including regula-
tions).
‘‘(C) INTERIM PLANS.—Pending completion
of a new management plan under subpara-
graph (A), the existing resource management
plans shall govern the use of the applicable
off-highway vehicle recreation area.
‘‘(f) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, all Federal land within the off-
highway vehicle recreation areas designated
or expanded by subsection (a) is withdrawn
from—
‘‘(1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or
disposal under the public land laws;
‘‘(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(3) right-of-way, leasing, or disposition
under all laws relating to mineral leasing,
geothermal leasing, or mineral materials.
‘‘(g) SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COM-
PANY UTILITY FACILITIES AND RIGHTS-OF-
WAY.—
‘‘(1) EFFECT OF TITLE.—Nothing in this
title—
‘‘(A) affects any validly issued right-of-way
for the customary operation, maintenance,
upgrade, repair, relocation within an exist-
ing right-of-way, replacement, or other au-
thorized energy transport facility activities
(including the use of any mechanized vehi-
cle, helicopter, and other aerial device) in a
right-of-way acquired by or issued, granted,
or permitted to Southern California Edison
Company (including any successor in inter-
est or assign) that is located on land in-
cluded in—
‘‘(i) the El Mirage Off-Highway Vehicle
Recreation Area;
‘‘(ii) the Spangler Hills Off-Highway Vehi-
cle Recreation Area;
‘‘(iii) the Stoddard Valley Off-Highway Ve-
hicle Recreation Area; or
‘‘(iv) the Johnson Valley Off-Highway Ve-
hicle Recreation Area;
‘‘(B) affects the application, siting, route
selection, right-of-way acquisition, or con-
struction of the Coolwater-Lugo trans-
mission project, as may be approved by the
California Public Utilities Commission and
the Bureau of Land Management; or
‘‘(C) prohibits the upgrading or replace-
ment of any Southern California Edison
Company—
‘‘(i) utility facility, including such a util-
ity facility known on the date of enactment
of this title as—
‘‘(I) ‘Gale-PS 512 transmission lines or
rights-of-way’;
‘‘(II) ‘Patio, Jack Ranch, and Kenworth
distribution circuits or rights-of-way’; or
‘‘(III) ‘Bessemer and Peacor distribution
circuits or rights-of-way’; or
‘‘(ii) energy transport facility in a right-of-
way issued, granted, or permitted by the
Secretary adjacent to a utility facility re-
ferred to in clause (i).
‘‘(2) PLANS FOR ACCESS.—The Secretary, in
consultation with the Southern California
Edison Company, shall publish plans for reg-
ular and emergency access by the Southern
California Edison Company to the rights-of-
way of the Company by the date that is 1
year after the later of—
‘‘(A) the date of enactment of this title;
and
‘‘(B) the date of issuance of a new energy
transport facility right-of-way within—
‘‘(i) the El Mirage Off-Highway Vehicle
Recreation Area;
‘‘(ii) the Spangler Hills Off-Highway Vehi-
cle Recreation Area;
‘‘(iii) the Stoddard Valley Off-Highway Ve-
hicle Recreation Area; or
‘‘(iv) the Johnson Valley Off-Highway Ve-
hicle Recreation Area.
‘‘(h) PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY
UTILITY FACILITIES AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.—
‘‘(1) EFFECT OF TITLE.—Nothing in this
title—
‘‘(A) affects any validly issued right-of-way
for the customary operation, maintenance,
upgrade, repair, relocation within an exist-
ing right-of-way, replacement, or other au-
thorized activity (including the use of any
mechanized vehicle, helicopter, and other
aerial device) in a right-of-way acquired by
or issued, granted, or permitted to Pacific
Gas and Electric Company (including any
successor in interest or assign) that is lo-
cated on land included in the Spangler Hills
Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area; or
‘‘(B) prohibits the upgrading or replace-
ment of any—
‘‘(i) utility facilities of the Pacific Gas and
Electric Company, including those utility fa-
cilities known on the date of enactment of
this title as—
‘‘(I) ‘Gas Transmission Line 311 or rights-
of-way’; or
‘‘(II) ‘Gas Transmission Line 372 or rights-
of-way’; or
‘‘(ii) utility facilities of the Pacific Gas
and Electric Company in rights-of-way
issued, granted, or permitted by the Sec-
retary adjacent to a utility facility referred
to in clause (i).
‘‘(2) PLANS FOR ACCESS.—Not later than 1
year after the date of enactment of this title
or the issuance of a new utility facility
right-of-way within the Spangler Hills Off-
Highway Vehicle Recreation Area, whichever
is later, the Secretary, in consultation with
the Pacific Gas and Electric Company, shall
publish plans for regular and emergency ac-
cess by the Pacific Gas and Electric Com-
pany to the rights-of-way of the Pacific Gas
and Electric Company.
‘‘TITLE XIV—ALABAMA HILLS NATIONAL
SCENIC AREA
‘‘SEC. 1401. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘In this title:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1066 February 7, 2019
‘‘(1) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term ‘man-
agement plan’ means the management plan
for the Scenic Area developed under section
1403(a).
‘‘(2) MAP.—The term ‘Map’ means the map
entitled ‘Proposed Alabama Hills National
Scenic Area’ and dated November 7, 2018.
‘‘(3) MOTORIZED VEHICLE.—The term ‘mo-
torized vehicle’ means a motorized or mecha-
nized vehicle and includes, when used by a
utility, mechanized equipment, a helicopter,
and any other aerial device necessary to
maintain electrical or communications in-
frastructure.
‘‘(4) SCENIC AREA.—The term ‘Scenic Area’
means the Alabama Hills National Scenic
Area established by section 1402(a).
‘‘(5) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means the
State of California.
‘‘(6) TRIBE.—The term ‘Tribe’ means the
Lone Pine Paiute-Shoshone Tribe.
‘‘SEC. 1402. ALABAMA HILLS NATIONAL SCENIC
AREA, CALIFORNIA.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Subject to valid ex-
isting rights, there is established in Inyo
County, California, the Alabama Hills Na-
tional Scenic Area, to be comprised of the
approximately 18,610 acres generally de-
picted on the Map as ‘National Scenic Area’.
‘‘(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Scenic
Area is to conserve, protect, and enhance for
the benefit, use, and enjoyment of present
and future generations the nationally sig-
nificant scenic, cultural, geological, edu-
cational, biological, historical, recreational,
cinematographic, and scientific resources of
the Scenic Area managed consistent with
section 302(a) of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1732(a)).
‘‘(c) MAP; LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this title, the
Secretary shall file a map and a legal de-
scription of the Scenic Area with—
‘‘(A) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate; and
‘‘(B) the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives.
‘‘(2) FORCE OF LAW.—The map and legal de-
scriptions filed under paragraph (1) shall
have the same force and effect as if included
in this title, except that the Secretary may
correct any clerical and typographical errors
in the map and legal descriptions.
‘‘(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Each map and
legal description filed under paragraph (1)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Man-
agement.
‘‘(d) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
manage the Scenic Area—
‘‘(1) as a component of the National Land-
scape Conservation System;
‘‘(2) so as not to impact the future con-
tinuing operation and maintenance of any
activities associated with valid, existing
rights, including water rights;
‘‘(3) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the resources and values of the
Scenic Area described in subsection (b); and
‘‘(4) in accordance with—
‘‘(A) the Federal Land Policy and Manage-
ment Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
‘‘(B) this title; and
‘‘(C) any other applicable laws.
‘‘(e) MANAGEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall
allow only such uses of the Scenic Area as
the Secretary determines would further the
purposes of the Scenic Area as described in
subsection (b).
‘‘(2) RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES.—Except as
otherwise provided in this title or other ap-
plicable law, or as the Secretary determines
to be necessary for public health and safety,
the Secretary shall allow existing rec-
reational uses of the Scenic Area to con-
tinue, including hiking, mountain biking,
rock climbing, sightseeing, horseback riding,
hunting, fishing, and appropriate authorized
motorized vehicle use in accordance with
paragraph (3).
‘‘(3) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—Except as oth-
erwise specified in this title, or as necessary
for administrative purposes or to respond to
an emergency, the use of motorized vehicles
in the Scenic Area shall be permitted only
on—
‘‘(A) roads and trails designated by the
Secretary for use of motorized vehicles as
part of a management plan sustaining a
semiprimitive motorized experience; or
‘‘(B) county-maintained roads in accord-
ance with applicable State and county laws.
‘‘(f) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this title cre-
ates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the Scenic Area.
‘‘(2) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE SCENIC AREA.—The
fact that an activity or use on land outside
the Scenic Area can be seen or heard within
the Scenic Area shall not preclude the activ-
ity or use outside the boundaries of the Sce-
nic Area.
‘‘(g) ACCESS.—The Secretary shall provide
private landowners adequate access to
inholdings in the Scenic Area.
‘‘(h) FILMING.—Nothing in this title pro-
hibits filming (including commercial film
production, student filming, and still pho-
tography) within the Scenic Area—
‘‘(1) subject to—
‘‘(A) such reasonable regulations, policies,
and practices as the Secretary considers to
be necessary; and
‘‘(B) applicable law; and
‘‘(2) in a manner consistent with the pur-
poses described in subsection (b).
‘‘(i) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
title affects the jurisdiction or responsibil-
ities of the State with respect to fish and
wildlife.
‘‘(j) LIVESTOCK.—The grazing of livestock
in the Scenic Area, including grazing under
the Alabama Hills allotment and the George
Creek allotment, as established before the
date of enactment of this title, shall be per-
mitted to continue—
‘‘(1) subject to—
‘‘(A) such reasonable regulations, policies,
and practices as the Secretary considers to
be necessary; and
‘‘(B) applicable law; and
‘‘(2) in a manner consistent with the pur-
poses described in subsection (b).
‘‘(k) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to the provi-
sions of this title and valid rights in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this title,
including rights established by prior with-
drawals, the Federal land within the Scenic
Area is withdrawn from all forms of—
‘‘(1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under
the public land laws;
‘‘(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(3) disposition under all laws pertaining
to mineral and geothermal leasing or min-
eral materials.
‘‘(l) WILDLAND FIRE OPERATIONS.—Nothing
in this title prohibits the Secretary, in co-
operation with other Federal, State, and
local agencies, as appropriate, from con-
ducting wildland fire operations in the Sce-
nic Area, consistent with the purposes de-
scribed in subsection (b).
‘‘(m) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—The Sec-
retary may enter into cooperative agree-
ments with, State, Tribal, and local govern-
mental entities and private entities to con-
duct research, interpretation, or public edu-
cation or to carry out any other initiative
relating to the restoration, conservation, or
management of the Scenic Area.
‘‘(n) UTILITY FACILITIES AND RIGHTS-OF-
WAY.—
‘‘(1) EFFECT OF TITLE.—Nothing in this
title—
‘‘(A) affects the existence, use, operation,
maintenance (including vegetation control),
repair, construction, reconfiguration, expan-
sion, inspection, renewal, reconstruction, al-
teration, addition, relocation, improvement,
funding, removal, or replacement of any util-
ity facility or appurtenant right-of-way
within or adjacent to the Scenic Area;
‘‘(B) subject to subsection (e), affects nec-
essary or efficient access to utility facilities
or rights-of-way within or adjacent to the
Scenic Area; and
‘‘(C) precludes the Secretary from author-
izing the establishment of new utility facil-
ity rights-of-way (including instream sites,
routes, and areas) within the Scenic Area in
a manner that minimizes harm to the pur-
pose of the Scenic Area as described in sub-
section (b)—
‘‘(i) in accordance with the National Envi-
ronmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.) and any other applicable law;
‘‘(ii) subject to such terms and conditions
as the Secretary determines to be appro-
priate; and
‘‘(iii) that are determined by the Secretary
to be the only technical or feasible location,
following consideration of alternatives with-
in existing rights-of-way or outside of the
Scenic Area.
‘‘(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—Consistent with
this title, the Management Plan shall estab-
lish provisions for maintenance of public
utility and other rights-of-way within the
Scenic Area.
‘‘SEC. 1403. MANAGEMENT PLAN.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this title, in
accordance with subsections (b) and (c), the
Secretary shall develop a comprehensive
plan for the long-term management of the
Scenic Area.
‘‘(b) CONSULTATION.—In developing the
management plan, the Secretary shall con-
sult with—
‘‘(1) appropriate State, Tribal, and local
governmental entities, including Inyo Coun-
ty and the Tribe;
‘‘(2) utilities, including Southern Cali-
fornia Edison Company and the Los Angeles
Department of Water and Power;
‘‘(3) the Alabama Hills Stewardship Group;
and
‘‘(4) members of the public.
‘‘(c) REQUIREMENT.—In accordance with
this title, the management plan shall include
provisions for maintenance of existing public
utility and other rights-of-way within the
Scenic Area.
‘‘(d) INCORPORATION.—In developing the
management plan, in accordance with this
section, the Secretary may allow casual use
mining limited to the use of hand tools,
metal detectors, hand-fed dry washers, vacu-
um cleaners, gold pans, small sluices, and
similar items.
‘‘(e) INTERIM MANAGEMENT.—Pending com-
pletion of the management plan, the Sec-
retary shall manage the Scenic Area in ac-
cordance with section 1402(b).
‘‘SEC. 1404. LAND TAKEN INTO TRUST FOR LONE
PINE PAIUTE-SHOSHONE RESERVA-
TION.
‘‘(a) TRUST LAND.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—On completion of the
survey described in subsection (b), all right,
title, and interest of the United States in
and to the approximately 132 acres of Fed-
eral land depicted on the Map as ‘Lone Pine
Paiute-Shoshone Reservation Addition’ shall
be held in trust for the benefit of the Tribe,
subject to paragraphs (2) and (3).
‘‘(2) CONDITIONS.—The land described in
paragraph (1) shall be subject to all ease-
ments, covenants, conditions, restrictions,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1067
February 7, 2019
withdrawals, and other matters of record in
existence on the date of enactment of this
title.
‘‘(3) EXCLUSION.—The Federal land over
which the right-of-way for the Los Angeles
Aqueduct is located, generally described as
the 250-foot-wide right-of-way granted to the
City of Los Angeles pursuant to the Act of
June 30, 1906 (34 Stat. 801, chapter 3926), shall
not be taken into trust for the Tribe.
‘‘(b) SURVEY.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this title, the Sec-
retary shall complete a survey of the bound-
ary lines to establish the boundaries of the
land to be held in trust under subsection
(a)(1).
‘‘(c) RESERVATION LAND.—The land held in
trust pursuant to subsection (a)(1) shall be
considered to be a part of the reservation of
the Tribe.
‘‘(d) GAMING PROHIBITION.—Land held in
trust under subsection (a)(1) shall not be eli-
gible, or considered to have been taken into
trust, for gaming (within the meaning of the
Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C.
2701 et seq.)).
‘‘SEC. 1405. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JU-
RISDICTION.
‘‘Administrative jurisdiction over the ap-
proximately 56 acres of Federal land depicted
on the Map as ‘USFS Transfer to BLM’ is
transferred from the Forest Service to the
Bureau of Land Management.
‘‘SEC. 1406. PROTECTION OF SERVICES AND REC-
REATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES.
‘‘(a) EFFECT OF TITLE.—Nothing in this
title limits commercial services for existing
or historic recreation uses, as authorized by
the permit process of the Bureau of Land
Management.
‘‘(b) GUIDED RECREATIONAL OPPORTUNI-
TIES.—Commercial permits to exercise guid-
ed recreational opportunities for the public
that are authorized as of the date of enact-
ment of this title may continue to be author-
ized.’’.
PART V—MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 1451. TRANSFER OF LAND TO ANZA-
BORREGO DESERT STATE PARK.
Title VII of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act is 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–71 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 712. TRANSFER OF LAND TO ANZA-
BORREGO DESERT STATE PARK.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—On termination of all
mining claims to the land described in sub-
section (b), the Secretary shall transfer the
land described in that subsection to the
State of California.
‘‘(b) DESCRIPTION OF LAND.—The land re-
ferred to in subsection (a) is certain Bureau
of Land Management land in San Diego
County, California, comprising approxi-
mately 934 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘Proposed Table Mountain
Wilderness Study Area Transfer to the State’
and dated November 7, 2018.
‘‘(c) MANAGEMENT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The land transferred
under subsection (a) shall be managed in ac-
cordance with the provisions of the Cali-
fornia Wilderness Act (California Public Re-
sources Code sections 5093.30–5093.40).
‘‘(2) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, the land transferred under sub-
section (a) is withdrawn from—
‘‘(A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or
disposal under the public land laws;
‘‘(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(C) disposition under all laws relating to
mineral and geothermal leasing.
‘‘(3) REVERSION.—If the State ceases to
manage the land transferred under sub-
section (a) as part of the State Park System
or in a manner inconsistent with the Cali-
fornia Wilderness Act (California Public Re-
sources Code sections 5093.30–5093.40), the
land shall revert to the Secretary at the dis-
cretion of the Secretary, to be managed as a
Wilderness Study Area.’’.
SEC. 1452. WILDLIFE CORRIDORS.
Title VII of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act is 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–71 et seq.)
(as amended by section 1451) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 713. WILDLIFE CORRIDORS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall—
‘‘(1) assess the impacts of habitat frag-
mentation on wildlife in the California
Desert Conservation Area; and
‘‘(2) establish policies and procedures to
ensure the preservation of wildlife corridors
and facilitate species migration.
‘‘(b) STUDY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable,
but not later than 2 years, after the date of
enactment of this section, the Secretary
shall complete a study regarding the impact
of habitat fragmentation on wildlife in the
California Desert Conservation Area.
‘‘(2) COMPONENTS.—The study under para-
graph (1) shall—
‘‘(A) identify the species migrating, or
likely to migrate in the California Desert
Conservation Area;
‘‘(B) examine the impacts and potential
impacts of habitat fragmentation on—
‘‘(i) plants, insects, and animals;
‘‘(ii) soil;
‘‘(iii) air quality;
‘‘(iv) water quality and quantity; and
‘‘(v) species migration and survival;
‘‘(C) identify critical wildlife and species
migration corridors recommended for preser-
vation; and
‘‘(D) include recommendations for ensuring
the biological connectivity of public land
managed by the Secretary and the Secretary
of Defense throughout the California Desert
Conservation Area.
‘‘(3) RIGHTS-OF-WAY.—The Secretary shall
consider the information and recommenda-
tions of the study under paragraph (1) to de-
termine the individual and cumulative im-
pacts of rights-of-way for projects in the
California Desert Conservation Area, in ac-
cordance with—
‘‘(A) the National Environmental Policy
Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
‘‘(B) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.); and
‘‘(C) any other applicable law.
‘‘(c) LAND MANAGEMENT PLANS.—The Sec-
retary shall incorporate into all land man-
agement plans applicable to the California
Desert Conservation Area the findings and
recommendations of the study completed
under subsection (b).’’.
SEC. 1453. PROHIBITED USES OF ACQUIRED, DO-
NATED, AND CONSERVATION LAND.
Title VII of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act is 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–71 et seq.)
(as amended by section 1452) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 714. PROHIBITED USES OF ACQUIRED, DO-
NATED, AND CONSERVATION LAND.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) ACQUIRED LAND.—The term ‘acquired
land’ means any land acquired within the
Conservation Area using amounts from the
land and water conservation fund established
under section 200302 of title 54, United States
Code.
‘‘(2) CONSERVATION AREA.—The term ‘Con-
servation Area’ means the California Desert
Conservation Area.
‘‘(3) CONSERVATION LAND.—The term ‘con-
servation land’ means any land within the
Conservation Area that is designated to sat-
isfy the conditions of a Federal habitat con-
servation plan, general conservation plan, or
State natural communities conservation
plan, including—
‘‘(A) national conservation land estab-
lished pursuant to section 2002(b)(2)(D) of the
Omnibus Public Land Management Act of
2009 (16 U.S.C. 7202(b)(2)(D)); and
‘‘(B) areas of critical environmental con-
cern established pursuant to section 202(c)(3)
of the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712(c)(3)).
‘‘(4) DONATED LAND.—The term ‘donated
land’ means any private land donated to the
United States for conservation purposes in
the Conservation Area.
‘‘(5) DONOR.—The term ‘donor’ means an
individual or entity that donates private
land within the Conservation Area to the
United States.
‘‘(6) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the Bureau of Land Management.
‘‘(7) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means the
State of California.
‘‘(b) PROHIBITIONS.—Except as provided in
subsection (c), the Secretary shall not au-
thorize the use of acquired land, conserva-
tion land, or donated land within the Con-
servation Area for any activities contrary to
the conservation purposes for which the land
was acquired, designated, or donated, includ-
ing—
‘‘(1) disposal;
‘‘(2) rights-of-way;
‘‘(3) leases;
‘‘(4) livestock grazing;
‘‘(5) infrastructure development, except as
provided in subsection (c);
‘‘(6) mineral entry; and
‘‘(7) off-highway vehicle use, except on—
‘‘(A) designated routes;
‘‘(B) off-highway vehicle areas designated
by law; and
‘‘(C) administratively designated open
areas.
‘‘(c) EXCEPTIONS.—
‘‘(1) AUTHORIZATION BY SECRETARY.—Sub-
ject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may au-
thorize limited exceptions to prohibited uses
of acquired land or donated land in the Con-
servation Area if—
‘‘(A) a right-of-way application for a re-
newable energy development project or asso-
ciated energy transport facility on acquired
land or donated land was submitted to the
Bureau of Land Management on or before
December 1, 2009; or
‘‘(B) after the completion and consider-
ation of an analysis under the National Envi-
ronmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.), the Secretary has determined that
proposed use is in the public interest.
‘‘(2) CONDITIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary grants
an exception to the prohibition under para-
graph (1), the Secretary shall require the
permittee to donate private land of com-
parable value located within the Conserva-
tion Area to the United States to mitigate
the use.
‘‘(B) APPROVAL.—The private land to be do-
nated under subparagraph (A) shall be ap-
proved by the Secretary after—
‘‘(i) consultation, to the maximum extent
practicable, with the donor of the private
land proposed for nonconservation uses; and
‘‘(ii) an opportunity for public comment re-
garding the donation.
‘‘(d) EXISTING AGREEMENTS.—Nothing in
this section affects permitted or prohibited
uses of donated land or acquired land in the
Conservation Area established in any ease-
ments, deed restrictions, memoranda of un-
derstanding, or other agreements in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this sec-
tion.
‘‘(e) DEED RESTRICTIONS.—Effective begin-
ning on the date of enactment of this sec-
tion, within the Conservation Area, the Sec-
retary may—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1068 February 7, 2019
‘‘(1) accept deed restrictions requested by
landowners for land donated to, or otherwise
acquired by, the United States; and
‘‘(2) consistent with existing rights, create
deed restrictions, easements, or other third-
party rights relating to any public land de-
termined by the Secretary to be necessary—
‘‘(A) to fulfill the mitigation requirements
resulting from the development of renewable
resources; or
‘‘(B) to satisfy the conditions of—
‘‘(i) a habitat conservation plan or general
conservation plan established pursuant to
section 10 of the Endangered Species Act of
1973 (16 U.S.C. 1539); or
‘‘(ii) a natural communities conservation
plan approved by the State.’’.
SEC. 1454. TRIBAL USES AND INTERESTS.
Section 705 of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act is 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–75) is
amended—
(1) by redesignating subsection (b) as sub-
section (c);
(2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) ACCESS.—The Secretary shall ensure
access to areas designated under this Act by
members of Indian Tribes for traditional cul-
tural and religious purposes, consistent with
applicable law, including Public Law 95–341
(commonly known as the ‘American Indian
Religious Freedom Act’) (42 U.S.C. 1996).
‘‘(b) TEMPORARY CLOSURE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In accordance with appli-
cable law, including Public Law 95–341 (com-
monly known as the ‘American Indian Reli-
gious Freedom Act’) (42 U.S.C. 1996), and sub-
ject to paragraph (2), the Secretary, on re-
quest of an Indian Tribe or Indian religious
community, shall temporarily close to gen-
eral public use any portion of an area des-
ignated as a national monument, special
management area, wild and scenic river,
area of critical environmental concern, or
National Park System unit under this Act
(referred to in this subsection as a ‘des-
ignated area’) to protect the privacy of tradi-
tional cultural and religious activities in the
designated area by members of the Indian
Tribe or Indian religious community.
‘‘(2) LIMITATION.—In closing a portion of a
designated area under paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall limit the closure to the smallest
practicable area for the minimum period
necessary for the traditional cultural and re-
ligious activities.’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) TRIBAL CULTURAL RESOURCES MANAGE-
MENT PLAN.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of the Natural
Resources Management Act, the Secretary
shall develop and implement a Tribal cul-
tural resources management plan to iden-
tify, protect, and conserve cultural resources
of Indian Tribes associated with the Xam
Kwatchan Trail network extending from
Avikwaame (Spirit Mountain, Nevada) to
Avikwlal (Pilot Knob, California).
‘‘(2) CONSULTATION.—The Secretary shall
consult on the development and implementa-
tion of the Tribal cultural resources manage-
ment plan under paragraph (1) with—
‘‘(A) each of—
‘‘(i) the Chemehuevi Indian Tribe;
‘‘(ii) the Hualapai Tribal Nation;
‘‘(iii) the Fort Mojave Indian Tribe;
‘‘(iv) the Colorado River Indian Tribes;
‘‘(v) the Quechan Indian Tribe; and
‘‘(vi) the Cocopah Indian Tribe;
‘‘(B) the Advisory Council on Historic
Preservation; and
‘‘(C) the State Historic Preservation Of-
fices of Nevada, Arizona, and California.
‘‘(3) RESOURCE PROTECTION.—The Tribal
cultural resources management plan devel-
oped under paragraph (1) shall—
‘‘(A) be based on a completed Tribal cul-
tural resources survey; and
‘‘(B) include procedures for identifying,
protecting, and preserving petroglyphs, an-
cient trails, intaglios, sleeping circles, arti-
facts, and other resources of cultural, ar-
chaeological, or historical significance in ac-
cordance with all applicable laws and poli-
cies, including—
‘‘(i) chapter 2003 of title 54, United States
Code;
‘‘(ii) Public Law 95–341 (commonly known
as the ‘American Indian Religious Freedom
Act’) (42 U.S.C. 1996);
‘‘(iii) the Archaeological Resources Protec-
tion Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470aa et seq.);
‘‘(iv) the Native American Graves Protec-
tion and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001 et
seq.); and
‘‘(v) Public Law 103–141 (commonly known
as the ‘Religious Freedom Restoration Act of
1993’) (42 U.S.C. 2000bb et seq.).
‘‘(e) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights, all Federal land within the area
administratively withdrawn and known as
the ‘Indian Pass Withdrawal Area’ is perma-
nently withdrawn from—
‘‘(1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or
disposal under the public land laws;
‘‘(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
‘‘(3) right-of-way leasing and disposition
under all laws relating to minerals or solar,
wind, or geothermal energy.’’.
SEC. 1455. RELEASE OF FEDERAL REVERSIONARY
LAND INTERESTS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) 1932 ACT.—The term ‘‘1932 Act’’ means
the Act of June 18, 1932 (47 Stat. 324, chapter
270).
(2) DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘District’’ means
the Metropolitan Water District of Southern
California.
(b) RELEASE.—Subject to valid existing
claims perfected prior to the effective date of
the 1932 Act and the reservation of minerals
set forth in the 1932 Act, the Secretary shall
release, convey, or otherwise quitclaim to
the District, in a form recordable in local
county records, and subject to the approval
of the District, after consultation and with-
out monetary consideration, all right, title,
and remaining interest of the United States
in and to the land that was conveyed to the
District pursuant to the 1932 Act or any
other law authorizing conveyance subject to
restrictions or reversionary interests re-
tained by the United States, on request by
the District.
(c) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—A conveyance
authorized by subsection (b) shall be subject
to the following terms and conditions:
(1) The District shall cover, or reimburse
the Secretary for, the costs incurred by the
Secretary to make the conveyance, includ-
ing title searches, surveys, deed preparation,
attorneys’ fees, and similar expenses.
(2) By accepting the conveyances, the Dis-
trict agrees to indemnify and hold harmless
the United States with regard to any bound-
ary dispute relating to any parcel conveyed
under this section.
SEC. 1456. CALIFORNIA STATE SCHOOL LAND.
Section 707 of the California Desert Protec-
tion Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–77) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the first sentence—
(i) by striking ‘‘Upon request of the Cali-
fornia State Lands Commission (hereinafter
in this section referred to as the ‘Commis-
sion’), the Secretary shall enter into nego-
tiations for an agreement’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ne-
gotiate in good faith to reach an agreement
with the California State Lands Commission
(referred to in this section as the ‘Commis-
sion’)’’; and
(ii) by inserting ‘‘, national monuments,
off-highway vehicle recreation areas,’’ after
‘‘more of the wilderness areas’’; and
(B) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘The Secretary shall negotiate in good faith
to’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(2) AGREEMENT.—To the maximum extent
practicable, not later than 10 years after the
date of enactment of this title, the Secretary
shall’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ‘‘, na-
tional monuments, off-highway vehicle
recreation areas,’’ after ‘‘wilderness areas’’.
SEC. 1457. DESIGNATION OF WILD AND SCENIC
RIVERS.
(a) AMARGOSA RIVER, CALIFORNIA.—Section
3(a)(196)(A) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)(196)(A)) is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘(A) The approximately 7.5-mile segment
of the Amargosa River in the State of Cali-
fornia, the private property boundary in sec.
19, T. 22 N., R. 7 E., to 100 feet upstream of
the Tecopa Hot Springs Road crossing, to be
administered by the Secretary of the Inte-
rior as a scenic river.’’.
(b) ADDITIONAL SEGMENTS.—Section 3(a) of
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C.
1274(a)) (as amended by section 1303(a)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(228) SURPRISE CANYON CREEK, CALI-
FORNIA.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The following segments
of Surprise Canyon Creek in the State of
California, to be administered by the Sec-
retary of the Interior:
‘‘(i) The approximately 5.3 miles of Sur-
prise Canyon Creek from the confluence of
Frenchman’s Canyon and Water Canyon to
100 feet upstream of Chris Wicht Camp, as a
wild river.
‘‘(ii) The approximately 1.8 miles of Sur-
prise Canyon Creek from 100 feet upstream of
Chris Wicht Camp to the southern boundary
of sec. 14, T. 21 S., R. 44 E., as a recreational
river.
‘‘(B) EFFECT ON HISTORIC MINING STRUC-
TURES.—Nothing in this paragraph affects
the historic mining structures associated
with the former Panamint Mining District.
‘‘(229) DEEP CREEK, CALIFORNIA.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The following segments
of Deep Creek in the State of California, to
be administered by the Secretary of Agri-
culture:
‘‘(i) The approximately 6.5-mile segment
from 0.125 mile downstream of the Rainbow
Dam site in sec. 33, T. 2 N., R. 2 W., San
Bernardino Meridian, to 0.25 miles upstream
of the Road 3N34 crossing, as a wild river.
‘‘(ii) The 0.5-mile segment from 0.25 mile
upstream of the Road 3N34 crossing to 0.25
mile downstream of the Road 3N34 crossing,
as a scenic river.
‘‘(iii) The 2.5-mile segment from 0.25 miles
downstream of the Road 3 N. 34 crossing to
0.25 miles upstream of the Trail 2W01 cross-
ing, as a wild river.
‘‘(iv) The 0.5-mile segment from 0.25 miles
upstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing to 0.25
mile downstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing,
as a scenic river.
‘‘(v) The 10-mile segment from 0.25 miles
downstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing to the
upper limit of the Mojave dam flood zone in
sec. 17, T. 3 N., R. 3 W., San Bernardino Me-
ridian, as a wild river.
‘‘(vi) The 11-mile segment of Holcomb
Creek from 100 yards downstream of the
Road 3N12 crossing to .25 miles downstream
of Holcomb Crossing, as a recreational river.
‘‘(vii) The 3.5-mile segment of the Holcomb
Creek from 0.25 miles downstream of Hol-
comb Crossing to the Deep Creek confluence,
as a wild river.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1069
February 7, 2019
‘‘(B) EFFECT ON SKI OPERATIONS.—Nothing
in this paragraph affects—
‘‘(i) the operations of the Snow Valley Ski
Resort; or
‘‘(ii) the State regulation of water rights
and water quality associated with the oper-
ation of the Snow Valley Ski Resort.
‘‘(230) WHITEWATER RIVER, CALIFORNIA.—
The following segments of the Whitewater
River in the State of California, to be admin-
istered by the Secretary of Agriculture and
the Secretary of the Interior, acting jointly:
‘‘(A) The 5.8-mile segment of the North
Fork Whitewater River from the source of
the River near Mt. San Gorgonio to the con-
fluence with the Middle Fork, as a wild river.
‘‘(B) The 6.4-mile segment of the Middle
Fork Whitewater River from the source of
the River to the confluence with the South
Fork, as a wild river.
‘‘(C) The 1-mile segment of the South Fork
Whitewater River from the confluence of the
River with the East Fork to the section line
between sections 32 and 33, T. 1 S., R. 2 E.,
San Bernardino Meridian, as a wild river.
‘‘(D) The 1-mile segment of the South Fork
Whitewater River from the section line be-
tween sections 32 and 33, T. 1 S., R. 2 E., San
Bernardino Meridian, to the section line be-
tween sections 33 and 34, T. 1 S., R. 2 E., San
Bernardino Meridian, as a recreational river.
‘‘(E) The 4.9-mile segment of the South
Fork Whitewater River from the section line
between sections 33 and 34, T. 1 S., R. 2 E.,
San Bernardino Meridian, to the confluence
with the Middle Fork, as a wild river.
‘‘(F) The 5.4-mile segment of the main
stem of the Whitewater River from the con-
fluence of the South and Middle Forks to the
San Gorgonio Wilderness boundary, as a wild
river.
‘‘(G) The 3.6-mile segment of the main
stem of the Whitewater River from the San
Gorgonio Wilderness boundary to .25 miles
upstream of the southern boundary of sec-
tion 35, T. 2 S., R. 3 E., San Bernardino Me-
ridian, as a recreational river.’’.
SEC. 1458. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—Section 1 of the Cali-
fornia Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16
U.S.C. 410aaa note; Public Law 103–433) is
amended by striking ‘‘1 and 2, and titles I
through IX’’ and inserting ‘‘1, 2, and 3, titles
I through IX, and titles XIII and XIV’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—The California Desert
Protection Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–433;
108 Stat. 4471) is amended by inserting after
section 2 the following:
‘‘SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘(a) TITLES I THROUGH IX.—In titles I
through IX, the term ‘this Act’ means only—
‘‘(1) sections 1 and 2; and
‘‘(2) titles I through IX.
‘‘(b) TITLES XIII AND XIV.—In titles XIII
and XIV:
‘‘(1) CONSERVATION AREA.—The term ‘Con-
servation Area’ means the California Desert
Conservation Area.
‘‘(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘Secretary’
means—
‘‘(A) with respect to land under the juris-
diction of the Secretary of the Interior, the
Secretary of the Interior; and
‘‘(B) with respect to land under the juris-
diction of the Secretary of Agriculture, the
Secretary of Agriculture.
‘‘(3) STATE.—The term ‘State’ means the
State of California.’’.
SEC. 1459. JUNIPER FLATS.
The California Desert Protection Act of
1994 is amended by striking section 711 (16
U.S.C. 410aaa–81) and inserting the following:
‘‘SEC. 711. JUNIPER FLATS.
‘‘Development of renewable energy genera-
tion facilities (excluding rights-of-way or fa-
cilities for the transmission of energy and
telecommunication facilities and infrastruc-
ture) is prohibited on the approximately
27,990 acres of Federal land generally de-
picted as ‘BLM Land Unavailable for Energy
Development’ on the map entitled ‘Juniper
Flats’ and dated November 7, 2018.’’.
SEC. 1460. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO CALI-
FORNIA MILITARY LANDS WITH-
DRAWAL AND OVERFLIGHTS ACT OF
1994.
(a) FINDINGS.—Section 801(b)(2) of the Cali-
fornia Military Lands Withdrawal and Over-
flights Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 410aaa–82 note;
Public Law 103–433) is amended by inserting
‘‘, special management areas, off-highway
vehicle recreation areas, scenic areas,’’ be-
fore ‘‘and wilderness areas’’.
(b) OVERFLIGHTS; SPECIAL AIRSPACE.—Sec-
tion 802 of the California Military Lands
Withdrawal and Overflights Act of 1994 (16
U.S.C. 410aaa–82) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘, scenic
areas, off-highway vehicle recreation areas,
or special management areas’’ before ‘‘des-
ignated by this Act’’;
(2) in subsection (b), by inserting ‘‘, scenic
areas, off-highway vehicle recreation areas,
or special management areas’’ before ‘‘des-
ignated by this Act’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FACILITIES.—
Nothing in this Act alters any authority of
the Secretary of Defense to conduct military
operations at installations and ranges within
the California Desert Conservation Area that
are authorized under any other provision of
law.’’.
SEC. 1461. DESERT TORTOISE CONSERVATION
CENTER.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish, operate, and maintain a trans-State
desert tortoise conservation center (referred
to in this section as the ‘‘Center’’) on public
land along the California-Nevada border—
(1) to support desert tortoise research, dis-
ease monitoring, handling training, rehabili-
tation, and reintroduction;
(2) to provide temporary quarters for ani-
mals collected from authorized salvage from
renewable energy sites; and
(3) to ensure the full recovery and ongoing
survival of the species.
(b) CENTER.—In carrying out this section,
the Secretary shall—
(1) seek the participation of or contract
with qualified organizations with expertise
in desert tortoise disease research and expe-
rience with desert tortoise translocation
techniques, and scientific training of profes-
sional biologists for handling tortoises, to
staff and manage the Center;
(2) ensure that the Center engages in pub-
lic outreach and education on tortoise han-
dling; and
(3) consult with the State and the State of
Nevada to ensure that the Center is operated
consistent with State law.
(c) NON-FEDERAL CONTRIBUTIONS.—The Sec-
retary may accept and expend contributions
of non-Federal funds to establish, operate,
and maintain the Center.
TITLE II—NATIONAL PARKS
Subtitle A—Special Resource Studies
SEC. 2001. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY OF JAMES
K. POLK PRESIDENTIAL HOME.
(a) DEFINITION OF STUDY AREA.—In this
section, the term ‘‘study area’’ means the
President James K. Polk Home in Columbia,
Tennessee, and adjacent property.
(b) SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.—
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a
special resource study of the study area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able for the study under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report that
describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 2002. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY OF
THURGOOD MARSHALL SCHOOL.
(a) DEFINITION OF STUDY AREA.—In this
section, the term ‘‘study area’’ means—
(1) P.S. 103, the public school located in
West Baltimore, Maryland, which Thurgood
Marshall attended as a youth; and
(2) any other resources in the neighborhood
surrounding P.S. 103 that relate to the early
life of Thurgood Marshall.
(b) SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.—
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a
special resource study of the study area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able to carry out the study under paragraph
(1), the Secretary shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources of the Senate a
report that describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 2003. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY OF PRESI-
DENT STREET STATION.
(a) DEFINITION OF STUDY AREA.—In this
section, the term ‘‘study area’’ means the
President Street Station, a railroad terminal
in Baltimore, Maryland, the history of which
is tied to the growth of the railroad industry
in the 19th century, the Civil War, the Un-
derground Railroad, and the immigrant in-
flux of the early 20th century.
(b) SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1070 February 7, 2019
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a
special resource study of the study area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able for the study under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate a report
that describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 2004. AMACHE SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.
(a) DEFINITION OF STUDY AREA.—In this
section, the term ‘‘study area’’ means the
site known as ‘‘Amache’’, ‘‘Camp Amache’’,
and ‘‘Granada Relocation Center’’ in Gra-
nada, Colorado, which was 1 of the 10 reloca-
tion centers where Japanese Americans were
incarcerated during World War II.
(b) SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
duct a special resource study of the study
area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives described in subparagraphs
(B) and (C).
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able to carry out the study under paragraph
(1), the Secretary shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources of the Senate a
report that describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 2005. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY OF
GEORGE W. BUSH CHILDHOOD
HOME.
(a) DEFINITION OF STUDY AREA.—In this
section, the term ‘‘study area’’ means the
George W. Bush Childhood Home, located at
1412 West Ohio Avenue, Midland, Texas.
(b) SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.—
(1) STUDY.—The Secretary shall conduct a
special resource study of the study area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able for the study under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report that
describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
Subtitle B—National Park System Boundary
Adjustments and Related Matters
SEC. 2101. SHILOH NATIONAL MILITARY PARK
BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AFFILIATED AREA.—The term ‘‘affiliated
area’’ means the Parker’s Crossroads Battle-
field established as an affiliated area of the
National Park System by subsection (c)(1).
(2) PARK.—The term ‘‘Park’’ means Shiloh
National Military Park, a unit of the Na-
tional Park System.
(b) AREAS TO BE ADDED TO SHILOH NA-
TIONAL MILITARY PARK.—
(1) ADDITIONAL AREAS.—The boundary of
the Park is modified to include the areas
that are generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘‘Shiloh National Military Park, Pro-
posed Boundary Adjustment’’, numbered 304/
80,011, and dated July 2014, and which are
comprised of the following:
(A) Fallen Timbers Battlefield.
(B) Russell House Battlefield.
(C) Davis Bridge Battlefield.
(2) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may acquire the land described in paragraph
(1) by donation, purchase from willing sellers
with donated or appropriated funds, or ex-
change.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—Any land acquired
under this subsection shall be administered
as part of the Park.
(c) ESTABLISHMENT OF AFFILIATED AREA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Parker’s Crossroads Bat-
tlefield in the State of Tennessee is estab-
lished as an affiliated area of the National
Park System.
(2) DESCRIPTION OF AFFILIATED AREA.—The
affiliated area shall consist of the area gen-
erally depicted within the ‘‘Proposed Bound-
ary’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Parker’s Cross-
roads Battlefield, Proposed Boundary’’, num-
bered 903/80,073, and dated July 2014.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—The affiliated area
shall be managed in accordance with—
(A) this section; and
(B) any law generally applicable to units of
the National Park System.
(4) MANAGEMENT ENTITY.—The City of
Parkers Crossroads and the Tennessee His-
torical Commission shall jointly be the man-
agement entity for the affiliated area.
(5) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—The Sec-
retary may provide technical assistance and
enter into cooperative agreements with the
management entity for the purpose of pro-
viding financial assistance for the mar-
keting, marking, interpretation, and preser-
vation of the affiliated area.
(6) LIMITED ROLE OF THE SECRETARY.—Noth-
ing in this section authorizes the Secretary
to acquire property at the affiliated area or
to assume overall financial responsibility for
the operation, maintenance, or management
of the affiliated area.
(7) GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in con-
sultation with the management entity, shall
develop a general management plan for the
affiliated area in accordance with section
100502 of title 54, United States Code.
(B) TRANSMITTAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date on which funds are made avail-
able to carry out this section, the Secretary
shall submit to the Committee on Natural
Resources of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate the general manage-
ment plan developed under subparagraph (A).
SEC. 2102. OCMULGEE MOUNDS NATIONAL HIS-
TORICAL PARK BOUNDARY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) HISTORICAL PARK.—The term ‘‘Histor-
ical Park’’ means the Ocmulgee Mounds Na-
tional Historical Park in the State of Geor-
gia, as redesignated by subsection(b)(1)(A).
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Ocmulgee National Monument Pro-
posed Boundary Adjustment’’, numbered 363/
125996, and dated January 2016.
(3) STUDY AREA.—The term ‘‘study area’’
means the Ocmulgee River corridor between
the cities of Macon, Georgia, and
Hawkinsville, Georgia.
(b) OCMULGEE MOUNDS NATIONAL HISTOR-
ICAL PARK.—
(1) REDESIGNATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Ocmulgee National
Monument, established pursuant to the Act
of June 14, 1934 (48 Stat. 958, chapter 519),
shall be known and designated as the
‘‘Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical
Park’’.
(B) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the
‘‘Ocmulgee National Monument’’ shall be
deemed to be a reference to the ‘‘Ocmulgee
Mounds National Historical Park’’.
(2) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of the His-
torical Park is revised to include approxi-
mately 2,100 acres of land, as generally de-
picted on the map.
(B) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(3) LAND ACQUISITION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may ac-
quire land and interests in land within the
boundaries of the Historical Park by dona-
tion, purchase from a willing seller with do-
nated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
(B) LIMITATION.—The Secretary may not
acquire by condemnation any land or inter-
est in land within the boundaries of the His-
torical Park.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1071
February 7, 2019
(4) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer any land acquired under para-
graph (3) as part of the Historical Park in ac-
cordance with applicable laws (including reg-
ulations).
(c) OCMULGEE RIVER CORRIDOR SPECIAL RE-
SOURCE STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
duct a special resource study of the study
area.
(2) CONTENTS.—In conducting the study
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall—
(A) evaluate the national significance of
the study area;
(B) determine the suitability and feasi-
bility of designating the study area as a unit
of the National Park System;
(C) consider other alternatives for preser-
vation, protection, and interpretation of the
study area by the Federal Government,
State or local government entities, or pri-
vate and nonprofit organizations;
(D) consult with interested Federal agen-
cies, State or local governmental entities,
private and nonprofit organizations, or any
other interested individuals; and
(E) identify cost estimates for any Federal
acquisition, development, interpretation, op-
eration, and maintenance associated with
the alternatives.
(3) APPLICABLE LAW.—The study required
under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with section 100507 of title 54,
United States Code.
(4) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able to carry out the study under paragraph
(1), the Secretary shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources of the Senate a
report that describes—
(A) the results of the study; and
(B) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 2103. KENNESAW MOUNTAIN NATIONAL BAT-
TLEFIELD PARK BOUNDARY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Kennesaw Mountain National Bat-
tlefield Park, Proposed Boundary Adjust-
ment’’, numbered 325/80,020, and dated Feb-
ruary 2010.
(2) PARK.—The term ‘‘Park’’ means the
Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield
Park.
(b) KENNESAW MOUNTAIN NATIONAL BATTLE-
FIELD PARK BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—
(1) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—The boundary
of the Park is modified to include the ap-
proximately 8 acres of land or interests in
land identified as ‘‘Wallis House and
Harriston Hill’’, as generally depicted on the
map.
(2) MAP.—The map shall be on file and
available for inspection in the appropriate
offices of the National Park Service.
(3) LAND ACQUISITION.—The Secretary may
acquire land or interests in land described in
paragraph (1) by donation, purchase from
willing sellers, or exchange.
(4) ADMINISTRATION OF ACQUIRED LAND.—
The Secretary shall administer land and in-
terests in land acquired under this section as
part of the Park in accordance with applica-
ble laws (including regulations).
SEC. 2104. FORT FREDERICA NATIONAL MONU-
MENT, GEORGIA.
(a) MAXIMUM ACREAGE.—The first section
of the Act of May 26, 1936 (16 U.S.C. 433g), is
amended by striking ‘‘two hundred and fifty
acres’’ and inserting ‘‘305 acres’’.
(b) BOUNDARY EXPANSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of the Fort
Frederica National Monument in the State
of Georgia is modified to include the land
generally depicted as ‘‘Proposed Acquisition
Areas’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Fort Frederica
National Monument Proposed Boundary Ex-
pansion’’, numbered 369/132,469, and dated
April 2016.
(2) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map de-
scribed in paragraph (1) shall be on file and
available for public inspection in the appro-
priate offices of the National Park Service.
(3) ACQUISITION OF LAND.—The Secretary
may acquire the land and interests in land
described in paragraph (1) by donation or
purchase with donated or appropriated funds
from willing sellers only.
(4) NO USE OF CONDEMNATION OR EMINENT
DOMAIN.—The Secretary may not acquire by
condemnation or eminent domain any land
or interests in land under this section or for
the purposes of this section.
SEC. 2105. FORT SCOTT NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE
BOUNDARY.
Public Law 95–484 (92 Stat. 1610) is amend-
ed—
(1) in the first section—
(A) by inserting ‘‘, by purchase with appro-
priated funds, or by exchange’’ after ‘‘dona-
tion’’; and
(B) by striking the proviso; and
(2) in section 2—
(A) by striking ‘‘SEC. 2. When’’ and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—When’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(b) BOUNDARY MODIFICATION.—The bound-
ary of the Fort Scott National Historic Site
established under subsection (a) is modified
as generally depicted on the map referred to
as ‘Fort Scott National Historic Site Pro-
posed Boundary Modification’, numbered 471/
80,057, and dated February 2016.’’.
SEC. 2106. FLORISSANT FOSSIL BEDS NATIONAL
MONUMENT BOUNDARY.
The first section of Public Law 91–60 (83
Stat. 101) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘entitled ‘Proposed
Florissant Fossil Beds National Monument’,
numbered NM–FFB–7100, and dated March
1967, and more particularly described by
metes and bounds in an attachment to that
map,’’ and inserting ‘‘entitled ‘Florissant
Fossil Beds National Monument Proposed
Boundary Adjustment’, numbered 171/132,544,
and dated May 3, 2016,’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘six thousand acres’’ and in-
serting ‘‘6,300 acres’’.
SEC. 2107. VOYAGEURS NATIONAL PARK BOUND-
ARY ADJUSTMENT.
(a) BOUNDARIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 102(a) of Public
Law 91–661 (16 U.S.C. 160a–1(a)) is amended—
(A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘the
drawing entitled’’ and all that follows
through ‘‘February 1969’’ and inserting ‘‘the
map entitled ‘Voyageurs National Park, Pro-
posed Land Transfer & Boundary Adjust-
ment’, numbered 172/80,056, and dated June
2009 (22 sheets)’’; and
(B) in the second and third sentences, by
striking ‘‘drawing’’ each place it appears and
inserting ‘‘map’’.
(2) TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.—Section
102(b)(2)(A) of Public Law 91–661 (16 U.S.C.
160a–1(b)(2)(A)) is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘paragraph (1)(C) and (D)’’
and inserting ‘‘subparagraphs (C) and (D) of
paragraph (1)’’; and
(B) in the second proviso, by striking
‘‘paragraph 1(E)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph
(1)(E)’’.
(b) LAND ACQUISITIONS.—Section 201 of
Public Law 91–661 (16 U.S.C. 160b) is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking the section designation and
heading and all that follows through ‘‘(a)
The Secretary’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘SEC. 201. LAND ACQUISITIONS.
‘‘(a) AUTHORIZATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary’’;
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘When any tract of land is only partly with-
in such boundaries’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) CERTAIN PORTIONS OF TRACTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In any case in which
only a portion of a tract of land is within the
boundaries of the park’’;
(B) in the third sentence, by striking
‘‘Land so acquired’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(B) EXCHANGE.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Any land acquired pursu-
ant to subparagraph (A)’’;
(C) in the fourth sentence, by striking
‘‘Any portion’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(ii) PORTIONS NOT EXCHANGED.—Any por-
tion’’;
(D) in the fifth sentence, by striking ‘‘Any
Federal property’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(C) TRANSFERS OF FEDERAL PROPERTY.—
Any Federal property’’; and
(E) by striking the last sentence and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(D) ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION.—Effec-
tive beginning on the date of enactment of
this subparagraph, there is transferred to the
National Park Service administrative juris-
diction over—
‘‘(i) any land managed by the Bureau of
Land Management within the boundaries of
the park, as depicted on the map described in
section 102(a); and
‘‘(ii) any additional public land identified
by the Bureau of Land Management as ap-
propriate for transfer within the boundaries
of the park.
‘‘(E) LAND OWNED BY STATE.—
‘‘(i) DONATIONS AND EXCHANGES.—Any land
located within or adjacent to the boundaries
of the park that is owned by the State of
Minnesota (or a political subdivision of the
State) may be acquired by the Secretary
only through donation or exchange.
‘‘(ii) REVISION.—On completion of an acqui-
sition from the State under clause (i), the
Secretary shall revise the boundaries of the
park to reflect the acquisition.’’; and
(3) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘(b) In ex-
ercising his’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(b) OFFERS BY INDIVIDUALS.—In exercising
the’’.
SEC. 2108. ACADIA NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY.
(a) BOUNDARY CLARIFICATION.—Section 101
of Public Law 99–420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note) is
amended—
(1) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘In
order to’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(a) BOUNDARIES.—Subject to subsections
(b) and (c)(2), to’’;
(2) in the second sentence—
(A) by striking ‘‘The map shall be on file’’
and inserting the following:
‘‘(c) AVAILABILITY AND REVISIONS OF
MAPS.—
‘‘(1) AVAILABILITY.—The map, together
with the map described in subsection (b)(1)
and any revised boundary map published
under paragraph (2), if applicable, shall be—
‘‘(A) on file’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘Interior, and it shall be
made’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘Interior;
and
‘‘(B) made’’;
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) (as des-
ignated by paragraph (1)) the following:
‘‘(b) SCHOODIC PENINSULA ADDITION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of the
Park is confirmed to include approximately
1,441 acres of land and interests in land, as
depicted on the map entitled ‘Acadia Na-
tional Park, Hancock County, Maine,
Schoodic Peninsula Boundary Revision’,
numbered 123/129102, and dated July 10, 2015.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1072 February 7, 2019
‘‘(2) RATIFICATION AND APPROVAL OF ACQUI-
SITIONS OF LAND.—Congress ratifies and ap-
proves—
‘‘(A) effective as of September 26, 2013, the
acquisition by the United States of the land
and interests in the land described in para-
graph (1); and
‘‘(B) effective as of the date on which the
alteration occurred, any alteration of the
land or interests in the land described in
paragraph (1) that is held or claimed by the
United States (including conversion of the
land to fee simple interest) that occurred
after the date described in subparagraph
(A).’’; and
(4) in subsection (c) (as designated by para-
graph (2)(A)), by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) TECHNICAL AND LIMITED REVISIONS.—
Subject to section 102(k), notwithstanding
any other provision of this section, the Sec-
retary of the Interior (referred to in this
title as the ‘Secretary’), by publication in
the Federal Register of a revised boundary
map or other description, may make—
‘‘(A) such technical boundary revisions as
the Secretary determines to be appropriate
to the permanent boundaries of the Park (in-
cluding any property of the Park located
within the Schoodic Peninsula and Isle Au
Haut districts) to resolve issues resulting
from causes such as survey error or changed
road alignments; and
‘‘(B) such limited boundary revisions as
the Secretary determines to be appropriate
to the permanent boundaries of the Park to
take into account acquisitions or losses, by
exchange, donation, or purchase from willing
sellers using donated or appropriated funds,
of land adjacent to or within the Park, re-
spectively, in any case in which the total
acreage of the land to be so acquired or lost
is less than 10 acres, subject to the condition
that—
‘‘(i) any such boundary revision shall not
be a part of a more-comprehensive boundary
revision; and
‘‘(ii) all such boundary revisions, consid-
ered collectively with any technical bound-
ary revisions made pursuant to subparagraph
(A), do not increase the size of the Park by
more than a total of 100 acres, as compared
to the size of the Park on the date of enact-
ment of this paragraph.’’.
(b) LIMITATION ON ACQUISITIONS OF LAND
FOR ACADIA NATIONAL PARK.—Section 102 of
Public Law 99–420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘of the In-
terior (hereinafter in this title referred to as
‘the Secretary’)’’;
(2) in subsection (d)(1), in the first sen-
tence, by striking ‘‘the the’’ and inserting
‘‘the’’;
(3) in subsection (k)—
(A) by redesignating the subsection as
paragraph (4) and indenting the paragraph
appropriately; and
(B) by moving the paragraph so as to ap-
pear at the end of subsection (b); and
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(k) REQUIREMENTS.—Before revising the
boundaries of the Park pursuant to this sec-
tion or section 101(c)(2)(B), the Secretary
shall—
‘‘(1) certify that the proposed boundary re-
vision will contribute to, and is necessary
for, the proper preservation, protection, in-
terpretation, or management of the Park;
‘‘(2) consult with the governing body of
each county, city, town, or other jurisdiction
with primary taxing authority over the land
or interest in land to be acquired regarding
the impacts of the proposed boundary revi-
sion;
‘‘(3) obtain from each property owner the
land or interest in land of which is proposed
to be acquired for, or lost from, the Park
written consent for the proposed boundary
revision; and
‘‘(4) submit to the Acadia National Park
Advisory Commission established by section
103(a), the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives, the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources of
the Senate, and the Maine Congressional
Delegation a written notice of the proposed
boundary revision.
‘‘(l) LIMITATION.—The Secretary may not
use the authority provided by section 100506
of title 54, United States Code, to adjust the
permanent boundaries of the Park pursuant
to this title.’’.
(c) ACADIA NATIONAL PARK ADVISORY COM-
MISSION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall rees-
tablish and appoint members to the Acadia
National Park Advisory Commission in ac-
cordance with section 103 of Public Law 99–
420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note).
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 103
of Public Law 99–420 (16 U.S.C. 341 note) is
amended by striking subsection (f).
(d) REPEAL OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS RELAT-
ING TO ACADIA NATIONAL PARK.—The fol-
lowing are repealed:
(1) Section 3 of the Act of February 26, 1919
(40 Stat. 1178, chapter 45).
(2) The first section of the Act of January
19, 1929 (45 Stat. 1083, chapter 77).
(e) MODIFICATION OF USE RESTRICTION.—
The Act of August 1, 1950 (64 Stat. 383, chap-
ter 511), is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘That the Secretary’’ and
inserting the following:
‘‘SECTION 1. CONVEYANCE OF LAND IN ACADIA
NATIONAL PARK.
‘‘The Secretary’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘for school purposes’’ and
inserting ‘‘for public purposes, subject to the
conditions that use of the land shall not de-
grade or adversely impact the resources or
values of Acadia National Park and that the
land shall remain in public ownership for
recreational, educational, or similar public
purposes’’.
(f) CONTINUATION OF CERTAIN TRADITIONAL
USES.—Title I of Public Law 99–420 (16 U.S.C.
341 note) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘SEC. 109. CONTINUATION OF CERTAIN TRADI-
TIONAL USES.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) LAND WITHIN THE PARK.—The term
‘land within the Park’ means land owned or
controlled by the United States—
‘‘(A) that is within the boundary of the
Park established by section 101; or
‘‘(B)(i) that is outside the boundary of the
Park; and
‘‘(ii) in which the Secretary has or acquires
a property interest or conservation easement
pursuant to this title.
‘‘(2) MARINE SPECIES; MARINE WORM; SHELL-
FISH.—The terms ‘marine species’, ‘marine
worm’, and ‘shellfish’ have the meanings
given those terms in section 6001 of title 12 of
the Maine Revised Statutes (as in effect on
the date of enactment of this section).
‘‘(3) STATE LAW.—The term ‘State law’
means the law (including regulations) of the
State of Maine, including the common law.
‘‘(4) TAKING.—The term ‘taking’ means the
removal or attempted removal of a marine
species, marine worm, or shellfish from the
natural habitat of the marine species, ma-
rine worm, or shellfish.
‘‘(b) CONTINUATION OF TRADITIONAL USES.—
The Secretary shall allow for the traditional
taking of marine species, marine worms, and
shellfish, on land within the Park between
the mean high watermark and the mean low
watermark in accordance with State law.’’.
(g) CONVEYANCE OF CERTAIN LAND IN ACA-
DIA NATIONAL PARK TO THE TOWN OF BAR
HARBOR, MAINE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
vey to the Town of Bar Harbor all right,
title, and interest of the United States in
and to the .29-acre parcel of land in Acadia
National Park identified as lot 110–055–000 on
the tax map of the Town of Bar Harbor for
section 110, dated April 1, 2015, to be used
for—
(A) a solid waste transfer facility; or
(B) other public purposes consistent with
uses allowed under the Act of June 14, 1926
(commonly known as the ‘‘Recreation and
Public Purposes Act’’) (44 Stat. 741, chapter
578; 43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
(2) REVERSION.—If the land conveyed under
paragraph (1) is used for a purpose other than
a purpose described in that paragraph, the
land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary,
revert to the United States.
SEC. 2109. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF THE IN-
TERIOR TO ACCEPT CERTAIN PROP-
ERTIES, MISSOURI.
(a) STE. GENEVIEVE NATIONAL HISTORICAL
PARK.—Section 7134(a)(3) of the Energy and
Natural Resources Act of 2017 (as enacted
into law by section 121(a)(2) of division G of
the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018
(Public Law 115–141)) is amended by striking
‘‘ ‘Ste. Genevieve National Historical Park
Proposed Boundary’, numbered 571/132,626,
and dated May 2016’’ and inserting ‘‘ ‘Ste.
Genevieve National Historical Park Pro-
posed Boundary Addition’, numbered 571/
149,942, and dated December 2018’’.
(b) HARRY S TRUMAN NATIONAL HISTORIC
SITE.—Public Law 98–32 (54 U.S.C. 320101
note) is amended—
(1) in section 3, by striking the section des-
ignation and all that follows through ‘‘is au-
thorized’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
‘‘There are authorized’’;
(2) in section 2—
(A) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘The Secretary is further authorized, in the
administration of the site, to’’ and inserting
the following:
‘‘(b) USE BY MARGARET TRUMAN DANIEL.—
In administering the Harry S Truman Na-
tional Historic Site, the Secretary may’’;
and
(B) by striking the section designation and
all that follows through ‘‘and shall be’’ in
the first sentence and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 3. DESIGNATION; USE BY MARGARET TRU-
MAN DANIEL.
‘‘(a) DESIGNATION.—Any property acquired
pursuant to section 2—
‘‘(1) is designated as the ‘Harry S Truman
National Historic Site’; and
‘‘(2) shall be’’; and
(3) in the first section—
(A) by redesignating subsection (e) as para-
graph (2), indenting the paragraph appro-
priately, and moving the paragraph so as to
appear at the end of subsection (c);
(B) in subsection (c)—
(i) by striking the subsection designation
and all that follows through ‘‘authorized to’’
and inserting the following:
‘‘(c) TRUMAN FARM HOME.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (2) (as redesignated by
subparagraph (A))—
(I) by striking ‘‘Farm House’’ and inserting
‘‘Farm Home’’; and
(II) by striking the paragraph designation
and all that follows through ‘‘authorized and
directed to’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(2) TECHNICAL AND PLANNING ASSIST-
ANCE.—The Secretary shall’’;
(C) in subsection (b)—
(i) by striking ‘‘(b)(1) The Secretary is fur-
ther authorized to’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) NOLAND/HAUKENBERRY AND WALLACE
HOUSES.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1073
February 7, 2019
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (1), by indenting subpara-
graphs (A) and (B) appropriately;
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) ADDITIONAL LAND IN INDEPENDENCE FOR
VISITOR CENTER.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may ac-
quire, by donation from the city of Independ-
ence, Missouri, the land described in para-
graph (2) for—
‘‘(A) inclusion in the Harry S Truman Na-
tional Historic Site; and
‘‘(B) if the Secretary determines appro-
priate, use as a visitor center of the historic
site, which may include administrative serv-
ices.
‘‘(2) DESCRIPTION OF LAND.—The land re-
ferred to in paragraph (1) consists of the ap-
proximately 1.08 acres of land—
‘‘(A) owned by the city of Independence,
Missouri;
‘‘(B) designated as Lots 6 through 19,
DELAYS Subdivision, a subdivision in Inde-
pendence, Jackson County, Missouri; and
‘‘(C) located in the area of the city bound
by Truman Road on the south, North Lynn
Street on the west, East White Oak Street
on the north, and the city transit center on
the east.
‘‘(3) BOUNDARY MODIFICATION.—On acquisi-
tion of the land under this subsection, the
Secretary shall modify the boundary of the
Harry S Truman National Historic Site to
reflect that acquisition.’’; and
(E) in subsection (a)—
(i) in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘The
Secretary may also acquire, by any of the
above means, fixtures,’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(2) FIXTURES AND PERSONAL PROPERTY.—
The Secretary may acquire, by any means
described in paragraph (1), any fixtures’’; and
(ii) in the first sentence—
(I) by striking ‘‘of the Interior (hereinafter
referred to as the ‘Secretary’)’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘That (a) in order to’’ and
inserting the following:
‘‘SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; DEFINITION OF SEC-
RETARY.
‘‘(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited
as the ‘Harry S Truman National Historic
Site Establishment Act’.
‘‘(b) DEFINITION OF SECRETARY.—In this
Act, the term ‘Secretary’ means the Sec-
retary of the Interior.
‘‘SEC. 2. PURPOSE; ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.
‘‘(a) PURPOSE; ACQUISITION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—To’’.
SEC. 2110. HOME OF FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT
NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.
(a) LAND ACQUISITION.—The Secretary may
acquire, by donation, purchase from a will-
ing seller using donated or appropriated
funds, or exchange, the approximately 89
acres of land identified as the ‘‘Morgan Prop-
erty’’ and generally depicted on the map en-
titled ‘‘Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt Na-
tional Historic Site, Proposed Park Addi-
tion’’, numbered 384/138,461, and dated May
2017.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map re-
ferred to in subsection (a) shall be available
for public inspection in the appropriate of-
fices of the National Park Service.
(c) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT; ADMINISTRA-
TION.—On acquisition of the land referred to
in subsection (a), the Secretary shall—
(1) adjust the boundary of the Home of
Franklin D. Roosevelt National Historic Site
to reflect the acquisition; and
(2) administer the acquired land as part of
the Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt National
Historic Site, in accordance with applicable
laws.
Subtitle C—National Park System
Redesignations
SEC. 2201. DESIGNATION OF SAINT-GAUDENS NA-
TIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Saint-Gaudens Na-
tional Historic Site shall be known and des-
ignated as the ‘‘Saint-Gaudens National His-
torical Park’’.
(b) AMENDMENTS TO PUBLIC LAW 88–543.—
Public Law 88–543 (78 Stat.749) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘National Historic Site’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘Na-
tional Historical Park’’;
(2) in section 2(a), by striking ‘‘historic
site’’ and inserting ‘‘Saint-Gaudens National
Historical Park’’;
(3) in section 3, by—
(A) striking ‘‘national historical site’’ and
inserting ‘‘Saint-Gaudens National Histor-
ical Park’’; and
(B) striking ‘‘part of the site’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘part of the park’’; and
(4) in section 4(b), by striking ‘‘traditional
to the site’’ and inserting ‘‘traditional to the
park’’.
(c) REFERENCES.—Any reference in any
law, regulation, document, record, map, or
other paper of the United States to the
Saint-Gaudens National Historic Site shall
be considered to be a reference to the ‘‘Saint-
Gaudens National Historical Park’’.
SEC. 2202. REDESIGNATION OF ROBERT EMMET
PARK.
(a) REDESIGNATION.—The small triangular
property designated by the National Park
Service as reservation 302, shall be known as
‘‘Robert Emmet Park’’.
(b) REFERENCE.—Any reference in any law,
regulation, document, record, map, paper, or
other record of the United States to the
property referred to in subsection (a) is
deemed to be a reference to ‘‘Robert Emmet
Park’’.
(c) SIGNAGE.—The Secretary may post
signs on or near Robert Emmet Park that in-
clude 1 or more of the following:
(1) Information on Robert Emmet, his con-
tribution to Irish Independence, and his re-
spect for the United States and the Amer-
ican Revolution.
(2) Information on the history of the statue
of Robert Emmet located in Robert Emmet
Park.
SEC. 2203. FORT SUMTER AND FORT MOULTRIE
NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Boundary Map, Fort Sumter and
Fort Moultrie National Historical Park’’,
numbered 392/80,088, and dated August 2009.
(2) PARK.—The term ‘‘Park’’ means the
Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie National
Historical Park established by subsection
(b).
(3) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of South Carolina.
(4) SULLIVAN’S ISLAND LIFE SAVING STATION
HISTORIC DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘Sullivan’s Is-
land Life Saving Station Historic District’’
means the Charleston Lighthouse, the boat-
house, garage, bunker/sighting station, sig-
nal tower, and any associated land and im-
provements to the land that are located be-
tween Sullivan’s Island Life Saving Station
and the mean low water mark.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
the Fort Sumter and Fort Moultrie National
Historical Park in the State as a single unit
of the National Park System to preserve,
maintain, and interpret the nationally sig-
nificant historical values and cultural re-
sources associated with Fort Sumter Na-
tional Monument, Fort Moultrie National
Monument, and the Sullivan’s Island Life
Saving Station Historic District.
(c) BOUNDARY.—The boundary of the Park
shall be as generally depicted on the map.
(d) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(e) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, acting
through the Director of the National Park
Service, shall administer the Park in accord-
ance with this section and the laws generally
applicable to units of the National Park Sys-
tem, including—
(A) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(B) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(2) INTERPRETATION OF HISTORICAL
EVENTS.—The Secretary shall provide for the
interpretation of historical events and ac-
tivities that occurred in the vicinity of Fort
Sumter and Fort Moultrie, including—
(A) the Battle of Sullivan’s Island on June
28, 1776;
(B) the Siege of Charleston during 1780;
(C) the Civil War, including—
(i) the bombardment of Fort Sumter by
Confederate forces on April 12, 1861; and
(ii) any other events of the Civil War that
are associated with Fort Sumter and Fort
Moultrie;
(D) the development of the coastal defense
system of the United States during the pe-
riod from the Revolutionary War to World
War II, including—
(i) the Sullivan’s Island Life Saving Sta-
tion;
(ii) the lighthouse associated with the Sul-
livan’s Island Life Saving Station; and
(iii) the coastal defense sites constructed
during the period of fortification construc-
tion from 1898 to 1942, known as the ‘‘Endi-
cott Period’’; and
(E) the lives of—
(i) the free and enslaved workers who built
and maintained Fort Sumter and Fort
Moultrie;
(ii) the soldiers who defended the forts;
(iii) the prisoners held at the forts; and
(iv) captive Africans bound for slavery
who, after first landing in the United States,
were brought to quarantine houses in the vi-
cinity of Fort Moultrie in the 18th century,
if the Secretary determines that the quar-
antine houses and associated historical val-
ues are nationally significant.
(f) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—The Sec-
retary may enter into cooperative agree-
ments with public and private entities and
individuals to carry out this section.
(g) REPEAL OF EXISTING LAW.—Section 2 of
the Joint Resolution entitled ‘‘Joint Resolu-
tion to establish the Fort Sumter National
Monument in the State of South Carolina’’,
approved April 28, 1948 (16 U.S.C. 450ee–1), is
repealed.
SEC. 2204. RECONSTRUCTION ERA NATIONAL HIS-
TORICAL PARK AND RECONSTRUC-
TION ERA NATIONAL HISTORIC NET-
WORK.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) HISTORICAL PARK.—The term ‘‘historical
park’’ means the Reconstruction Era Na-
tional Historical Park.
(2) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the maps
entitled ‘‘Reconstruction Era National
Monument Old Beaufort Firehouse’’, num-
bered 550/135,755, and dated January 2017;
‘‘Reconstruction Era National Monument
Darrah Hall and Brick Baptist Church’’,
numbered 550/135,756, and dated January 2017;
and ‘‘Reconstruction Era National Monu-
ment Camp Saxton’’, numbered 550/135,757,
and dated January 2017, collectively.
(3) NETWORK.—The term ‘‘Network’’ means
the Reconstruction Era National Historic
Network established pursuant to this sec-
tion.
(b) RECONSTRUCTION ERA NATIONAL HISTOR-
ICAL PARK.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1074 February 7, 2019
(1) REDESIGNATION OF RECONSTRUCTION ERA
NATIONAL MONUMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Reconstruction Era
National Monument is redesignated as the
Reconstruction Era National Historical
Park, as generally depicted on the Map.
(B) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.—Any funds
available for the purposes of the Reconstruc-
tion Era National Monument shall be avail-
able for the purposes of the historical park.
(C) REFERENCES.—Any references in a law,
regulation, document, record, map, or other
paper of the United States to the Recon-
struction Era National Monument shall be
considered to be a reference to the historical
park.
(2) BOUNDARY EXPANSION.—
(A) BEAUFORT NATIONAL HISTORIC LANDMARK
DISTRICT.—Subject to subparagraph (D), the
Secretary is authorized to acquire land or in-
terests in land within the Beaufort National
Historic Landmark District that has historic
connection to the Reconstruction Era. Upon
finalizing an agreement to acquire land, the
Secretary shall expand the boundary of the
historical park to encompass the property.
(B) ST. HELENA ISLAND.—Subject to sub-
paragraph (D), the Secretary is authorized to
acquire the following and shall expand the
boundary of the historical park to include
acquisitions under this authority:
(i) Land and interests in land adjacent to
the existing boundary on St. Helena Island,
South Carolina, as reflected on the Map.
(ii) Land or interests in land on St. Helena
Island, South Carolina, that has a historic
connection to the Reconstruction Era.
(C) CAMP SAXTON.—Subject to subpara-
graph (D), the Secretary is authorized to ac-
cept administrative jurisdiction of Federal
land or interests in Federal land adjacent to
the existing boundary at Camp Saxton, as re-
flected on the Map. Upon finalizing an agree-
ment to accept administrative jurisdiction
of Federal land or interests in Federal land,
the Secretary shall expand the boundary of
the historical park to encompass that Fed-
eral land or interests in Federal land.
(D) LAND ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Sec-
retary may only acquire land under this sec-
tion by donation, exchange, or purchase with
donated funds.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the historical park in accordance
with this section and with the laws generally
applicable to units of the National Park Sys-
tem.
(B) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—If the manage-
ment plan for the Reconstruction Era Na-
tional Monument—
(i) has not been completed on or before the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
shall incorporate all provisions of this sec-
tion into the planning process and complete
a management plan for the historical park
within 3 years; and
(ii) has been completed on or before the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
shall update the plan incorporating the pro-
visions of this section.
(c) RECONSTRUCTION ERA NATIONAL HIS-
TORIC NETWORK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall—
(A) establish, within the National Park
Service, a program to be known as the ‘‘Re-
construction Era National Historic Net-
work’’;
(B) not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of this Act, solicit proposals from
sites interested in being a part of the Net-
work; and
(C) administer the Network through the
historical park.
(2) DUTIES OF SECRETARY.—In carrying out
the Network, the Secretary shall—
(A) review studies and reports to com-
plement and not duplicate studies of the his-
torical importance of Reconstruction Era
that may be underway or completed, such as
the National Park Service Reconstruction
Handbook and the National Park Service
Theme Study on Reconstruction;
(B) produce and disseminate appropriate
educational and promotional materials re-
lating to the Reconstruction Era and the
sites in the Network, such as handbooks,
maps, interpretive guides, or electronic in-
formation;
(C) enter into appropriate cooperative
agreements and memoranda of under-
standing to provide technical assistance;
(D)(i) create and adopt an official, uniform
symbol or device for the Network; and
(ii) issue regulations for the use of the
symbol or device adopted under clause (i);
and
(E) conduct research relating to Recon-
struction and the Reconstruction Era.
(3) ELEMENTS.—The Network shall encom-
pass the following elements:
(A) All units and programs of the National
Park Service that are determined by the
Secretary to relate to the Reconstruction
Era.
(B) Other Federal, State, local, and pri-
vately owned properties that the Secretary
determines—
(i) relate to the Reconstruction Era; and
(ii) are included in, or determined by the
Secretary to be eligible for inclusion in, the
National Register of Historic Places.
(C) Other governmental and nongovern-
mental sites, facilities, and programs of an
educational, research, or interpretive nature
that are directly related to the Reconstruc-
tion Era.
(4) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS AND MEMO-
RANDA OF UNDERSTANDING.—To achieve the
purposes of this section and to ensure effec-
tive coordination of the Federal and non-
Federal elements of the Network and units
and programs of the National Park Service,
the Secretary may enter into cooperative
agreements and memoranda of under-
standing with, and provide technical assist-
ance to, the heads of other Federal agencies,
States, units of local government, regional
governmental bodies, and private entities.
SEC. 2205. GOLDEN SPIKE NATIONAL HISTORICAL
PARK.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) PARK.—The term ‘‘Park’’ means the
Golden Spike National Historical Park des-
ignated by subsection (b)(1).
(2) PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘Program’’ means
the program to commemorate and interpret
the Transcontinental Railroad authorized
under subsection (c).
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the National Park Service.
(4) TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILROAD.—The
term ‘‘Transcontinental Railroad’’ means
the approximately 1,912-mile continuous
railroad constructed between 1863 and 1869
extending from Council Bluffs, Iowa, to San
Francisco, California.
(b) REDESIGNATION.—
(1) REDESIGNATION.—The Golden Spike Na-
tional Historic Site designated April 2, 1957,
and placed under the administration of the
National Park Service under Public Law 89–
102 (54 U.S.C. 320101 note; 79 Stat. 426), shall
be known and designated as the ‘‘Golden
Spike National Historical Park’’.
(2) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the Golden
Spike National Historic Site shall be consid-
ered to be a reference to the ‘‘Golden Spike
National Historical Park’’.
(c) TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILROAD COMMEMO-
RATION AND PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the Secretary shall establish within the Na-
tional Park Service a program to commemo-
rate and interpret the Transcontinental
Railroad.
(2) STUDY.—Before establishing the Pro-
gram, the Secretary shall conduct a study of
alternatives for commemorating and inter-
preting the Transcontinental Railroad that
includes—
(A) a historical assessment of the Trans-
continental Railroad;
(B) the identification of—
(i) existing National Park System land and
affiliated areas, land managed by other Fed-
eral agencies, and Federal programs that
may be related to preserving, commemo-
rating, and interpreting the Trans-
continental Railroad;
(ii) any properties relating to the Trans-
continental Railroad—
(I) that are designated as, or could meet
the criteria for designation as, National His-
toric Landmarks; or
(II) that are included, or eligible for inclu-
sion, on the National Register of Historic
Places;
(iii) any objects relating to the Trans-
continental Railroad that have educational,
research, or interpretative value; and
(iv) any governmental programs and non-
governmental programs of an educational,
research, or interpretive nature relating to
the Transcontinental Railroad; and
(C) recommendations for—
(i) incorporating the resources identified
under subparagraph (B) into the Program;
and
(ii) other appropriate ways to enhance his-
torical research, education, interpretation,
and public awareness of the Trans-
continental Railroad.
(3) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are made available
to carry out the study under paragraph (2),
the Secretary shall submit to the Committee
on Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate a report
containing the findings and recommenda-
tions of the study.
(4) FREIGHT RAILROAD OPERATIONS.—The
Program shall not include any properties
that are—
(A) used in active freight railroad oper-
ations (or other ancillary purposes); or
(B) reasonably anticipated to be used for
freight railroad operations in the future.
(5) ELEMENTS OF THE PROGRAM.—In car-
rying out the Program under this subsection,
the Secretary—
(A) shall produce and disseminate appro-
priate education materials relating to the
history, construction, and legacy of the
Transcontinental Railroad, such as hand-
books, maps, interpretive guides, or elec-
tronic information;
(B) may enter into appropriate cooperative
agreements and memoranda of under-
standing and provide technical assistance to
the heads of other Federal agencies, States,
units of local government, regional govern-
mental bodies, and private entities to fur-
ther the purposes of the Program and this
section; and
(C) may—
(i) create and adopt an official, uniform
symbol or device to identify the Program;
and
(ii) issue guidance for the use of the sym-
bol or device created and adopted under
clause (i).
(d) PROGRAMMATIC AGREEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall seek to enter into a pro-
grammatic agreement with the Utah State
Historic Preservation Officer to add to the
list of undertakings eligible for streamlined
review under section 306108 of title 54, United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1075
February 7, 2019
States Code, certain uses that would have
limited physical impact to land in the Park.
(2) DEVELOPMENT AND CONSULTATION.—The
programmatic agreement entered into under
paragraph (1) shall be developed—
(A) in accordance with applicable laws (in-
cluding regulations); and
(B) in consultation with adjacent land-
owners, Indian Tribes, and other interested
parties.
(3) APPROVAL.—The Secretary shall—
(A) consider any application for uses cov-
ered by the programmatic agreement; and
(B) not later than 60 days after the receipt
of an application described in subparagraph
(A), approve the application, if the Secretary
determines the application is consistent
with—
(i) the programmatic agreement entered
into under paragraph (1); and
(ii) applicable laws (including regulations).
(e) INVASIVE SPECIES.—The Secretary shall
consult with, and seek to coordinate with,
adjacent landowners to address the treat-
ment of invasive species adjacent to, and
within the boundaries of, the Park.
SEC. 2206. WORLD WAR II PACIFIC SITES.
(a) PEARL HARBOR NATIONAL MEMORIAL,
HAWAI’I.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Pearl Harbor National Memorial—
Proposed Boundary’’, numbered 580/140,514,
and dated November 2017.
(B) NATIONAL MEMORIAL.—The term ‘‘Na-
tional Memorial’’ means the Pearl Harbor
National Memorial established by paragraph
(2)(A)(i).
(2) PEARL HARBOR NATIONAL MEMORIAL.—
(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Pearl Harbor National Memorial in the State
of Hawai’i as a unit of the National Park
System.
(ii) BOUNDARIES.—The boundaries of the
National Memorial shall be the boundaries
generally depicted on the Map.
(iii) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in appropriate offices of the National Park
Service.
(B) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Na-
tional Memorial are to preserve, interpret,
and commemorate for the benefit of present
and future generations the history of World
War II in the Pacific from the events leading
to the December 7, 1941, attack on O’ahu, to
peace and reconciliation.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer the National Memorial in accord-
ance with this subsection, section 121 of Pub-
lic Law 111–88 (123 Stat. 2930), and the laws
generally applicable to units of the National
Park System including—
(A) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(B) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(4) REMOVAL OF PEARL HARBOR NATIONAL
MEMORIAL FROM THE WORLD WAR II VALOR IN
THE PACIFIC NATIONAL MONUMENT.—
(A) BOUNDARIES.—The boundaries of the
World War II Valor in the Pacific National
Monument are revised to exclude from the
monument the land and interests in land
identified as the ‘‘Pearl Harbor National Me-
morial’’, as depicted on the Map.
(B) INCORPORATION INTO NATIONAL MEMO-
RIAL.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The land and interests in
land excluded from the monument under sub-
paragraph (A) are incorporated in and made
part of the National Memorial in accordance
with this subsection.
(ii) USE OF FUNDS.—Any funds for the pur-
poses of the land and interests in land ex-
cluded from the monument under subpara-
graph (A) shall be made available for the
purposes of the National Memorial.
(iii) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law
(other than this section), regulation, docu-
ment, record, map, or other paper of the
United States to resources in the State of
Hawai’i included in the World War II Valor
in the Pacific National Monument shall be
considered a reference to the ‘‘Pearl Harbor
National Memorial’’.
(b) TULE LAKE NATIONAL MONUMENT, CALI-
FORNIA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The areas of the World
War II Valor in the Pacific National Monu-
ment located in the State of California, as
established by Presidential Proclamation
8327 (73 Fed. Reg. 75293; December 10, 2008),
are redesignated as the ‘‘Tule Lake National
Monument’’.
(2) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer the Tule Lake National Monu-
ment in accordance with the provisions of
Presidential Proclamation 8327 (73 Fed. Reg.
75293; December 10, 2008) applicable to the
sites and resources in the State of California
that are subject to that proclamation.
(3) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law
(other than this section), regulation, docu-
ment, record, map, or other paper of the
United States to resources in the State of
California included in the World War II
Valor in the Pacific National Monument
shall be considered to be a reference to ‘‘Tule
Lake National Monument’’.
(c) ALEUTIAN ISLANDS WORLD WAR II NA-
TIONAL MONUMENT, ALASKA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The areas of the World
War II Valor in the Pacific National Monu-
ment located in the State of Alaska, as es-
tablished by Presidential Proclamation 8327
(73 Fed. Reg. 75293; December 10, 2008), are re-
designated as the ‘‘Aleutian Islands World
War II National Monument’’.
(2) ADMINISTRATION.—The Secretary shall
administer the Aleutian Islands World War II
National Monument in accordance with the
provisions of Presidential Proclamation 8327
(73 Fed. Reg. 75293; December 10, 2008) appli-
cable to the sites and resources in the State
of Alaska that are subject to that proclama-
tion.
(3) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law
(other than this section), regulation, docu-
ment, record, map, or other paper of the
United States to the sites and resources in
the State of Alaska included in the World
War II Valor in the Pacific National Monu-
ment shall be considered to be a reference to
the ‘‘Aleutian Islands World War II National
Monument’’.
(d) HONOULIULI NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE,
HAWAI’I.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) HISTORIC SITE.—The term ‘‘Historic
Site’’ means the Honouliuli National His-
toric Site established by paragraph (2)(A)(i).
(B) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Honouliuli National Historic Site—
Proposed Boundary’’, numbered 680/139428,
and dated June 2017.
(2) HONOULIULI NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.—
(A) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Honouliuli National Historic Site in the
State of Hawai’i as a unit of the National
Park System.
(ii) BOUNDARIES.—The boundaries of the
Historic Site shall be the boundaries gen-
erally depicted on the Map.
(iii) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in appropriate offices of the National Park
Service.
(B) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the His-
toric Site are to preserve and interpret for
the benefit of present and future generations
the history associated with the internment
and detention of civilians of Japanese and
other ancestries during World War II in Ha-
wai’i, the impacts of war and martial law on
society in the Hawaiian Islands, and the co-
location and diverse experiences of Prisoners
of War at the Honouliuli Internment Camp
site.
(3) ADMINISTRATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Historic Site in accordance
with this subsection and the laws generally
applicable to units of the National Park Sys-
tem, including—
(i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(B) PARTNERSHIPS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may enter
into agreements with, or acquire easements
from, the owners of property adjacent to the
Historic Site to provide public access to the
Historic Site.
(ii) INTERPRETATION.—The Secretary may
enter into cooperative agreements with gov-
ernmental and nongovernmental organiza-
tions to provide for interpretation at the
Historic Site.
(C) SHARED RESOURCES.—To the maximum
extent practicable, the Secretary may use
the resources of the Pearl Harbor National
Memorial to administer the Historic Site.
(4) ABOLISHMENT OF HONOULIULI NATIONAL
MONUMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In light of the establish-
ment of the Honouliuli National Historic
Site, the Honouliuli National Monument is
abolished and the lands and interests therein
are incorporated within and made part of
Honouliuli National Historic Site. Any funds
available for purposes of Honouliuli National
Monument shall be available for purposes of
the Historic Site.
(B) REFERENCES.—Any references in law
(other than in this section), regulation, doc-
ument, record, map or other paper of the
United States to Honouliuli National Monu-
ment shall be considered a reference to
Honouliuli National Historic Site.
Subtitle D—New Units of the National Park
System
SEC. 2301. MEDGAR AND MYRLIE EVERS HOME
NATIONAL MONUMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COLLEGE.—The term ‘‘College’’ means
Tougaloo College, a private educational in-
stitution located in Tougaloo, Mississippi.
(2) HISTORIC DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘Historic
District’’ means the Medgar Evers Historic
District, as included on the National Reg-
ister of Historic Places, and as generally de-
picted on the Map.
(3) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Medgar and Myrlie Evers Home Na-
tional Monument’’, numbered 515/142561, and
dated September 2018.
(4) MONUMENT.—The term ‘‘Monument’’
means the Medgar and Myrlie Evers Home
National Monument established by sub-
section (b).
(5) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the National Park Service.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
there is established the Medgar and Myrlie
Evers Home National Monument in the State
of Mississippi as a unit of the National Park
System to preserve, protect, and interpret
for the benefit of present and future genera-
tions resources associated with the pivotal
roles of Medgar and Myrlie Evers in the
American Civil Rights Movement.
(2) DETERMINATION BY THE SECRETARY.—The
Monument shall not be established until the
date on which the Secretary determines that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1076 February 7, 2019
a sufficient quantity of land or interests in
land has been acquired to constitute a man-
ageable park unit.
(c) BOUNDARIES.—The boundaries of the
Monument shall be the boundaries generally
depicted on the Map.
(d) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(e) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may only acquire any land or interest in
land located within the boundary of the
Monument by—
(1) donation;
(2) purchase from a willing seller with do-
nated or appropriated funds; or
(3) exchange.
(f) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Monument in accordance with—
(A) this section; and
(B) the laws generally applicable to units
of the National Park System, including—
(i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date on which funds are first made
available to the Secretary for this purpose,
the Secretary shall prepare a general man-
agement plan for the Monument in accord-
ance with section 100502 of title 54, United
States Code.
(B) SUBMISSION.—On completion of the gen-
eral management plan under subparagraph
(A), the Secretary shall submit it to the
Committee on Natural Resources of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources of the Sen-
ate.
(g) AGREEMENTS.—
(1) MONUMENT.—The Secretary—
(A) shall seek to enter into an agreement
with the College to provide interpretive and
educational services relating to the Monu-
ment; and
(B) may enter into agreements with the
College and other entities for the purposes of
carrying out this section.
(2) HISTORIC DISTRICT.—The Secretary may
enter into agreements with the owner of a
nationally significant property within the
Historic District, to identify, mark, inter-
pret, and provide technical assistance with
respect to the preservation and interpreta-
tion of the property.
SEC. 2302. MILL SPRINGS BATTLEFIELD NA-
TIONAL MONUMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Mill Springs Battlefield National
Monument, Nancy, Kentucky’’, numbered
297/145513, and dated June 2018.
(2) MONUMENT.—The term ‘‘Monument’’
means the Mill Springs Battlefield National
Monument established by subsection (b)(1).
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the National Park Service.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
there is established as a unit of the National
Park System, the Mill Springs Battlefield
National Monument in the State of Ken-
tucky, to preserve, protect, and interpret for
the benefit of present and future genera-
tions—
(A) the nationally significant historic re-
sources of the Mill Springs Battlefield; and
(B) the role of the Mill Springs Battlefield
in the Civil War.
(2) DETERMINATION BY THE SECRETARY.—The
Monument shall not be established until the
date on which the Secretary determines that
a sufficient quantity of land or interests in
land has been acquired to constitute a man-
ageable park unit.
(3) NOTICE.—Not later than 30 days after
the date on which the Secretary makes a de-
termination under paragraph (2), the Sec-
retary shall publish in the Federal Register
notice of the establishment of the Monu-
ment.
(4) BOUNDARY.—The boundary of the Monu-
ment shall be as generally depicted on the
Map.
(5) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(6) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may only acquire land or an interest in land
located within the boundary of the Monu-
ment by—
(A) donation;
(B) purchase from a willing seller with do-
nated or appropriated funds; or
(C) exchange.
(c) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Monument in accordance with—
(A) this section; and
(B) the laws generally applicable to units
of the National Park System, including—
(i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date on which funds are first made
available to prepare a general management
plan for the Monument, the Secretary shall
prepare the general management plan in ac-
cordance with section 100502 of title 54,
United States Code.
(B) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—On comple-
tion of the general management plan, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate the gen-
eral management plan.
(d) PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.—Noth-
ing in this section affects the land use rights
of private property owners within or adja-
cent to the Monument.
(e) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the Monument.
(2) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE NATIONAL MONU-
MENT.—The fact that an activity or use on
land outside the Monument can be seen or
heard within the Monument shall not pre-
clude the activity or use outside the bound-
ary of the Monument.
SEC. 2303. CAMP NELSON HERITAGE NATIONAL
MONUMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘Map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Camp Nelson Heritage National
Monument Nicholasville, Kentucky’’, num-
bered 532/144,148, and dated April 2018.
(2) MONUMENT.—The term ‘‘Monument’’
means the Camp Nelson Heritage National
Monument established by subsection (b)(1).
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the National Park Service.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
there is established, as a unit of the National
Park System, the Camp Nelson Heritage Na-
tional Monument in the State of Kentucky,
to preserve, protect, and interpret for the
benefit of present and future generations,
the nationally significant historic resources
of Camp Nelson and the role of Camp Nelson
in the American Civil War, Reconstruction,
and African American history and civil
rights.
(2) CONDITIONS.—The Monument shall not
be established until after the Secretary—
(A) has entered into a written agreement
with the owner of any private or non-Federal
land within the boundary of the Monument,
as depicted on the Map, providing that the
property shall be donated to the United
States for inclusion in the Monument, to be
managed consistently with the purposes of
the Monument; and
(B) has determined that sufficient land or
interests in land have been acquired within
the boundary of the Monument to constitute
a manageable unit.
(c) BOUNDARIES.—The boundaries of the
Monument shall be the boundaries generally
depicted on the Map.
(d) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The Map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(e) ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
may only acquire any land or interest in
land located within the boundary of the
Monument by donation, purchase with do-
nated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
(f) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the Monument in accordance with—
(A) this section;
(B) Presidential Proclamation 9811 (83 Fed.
Reg. 54845 (October 31, 2018)); and
(C) the laws generally applicable to units
of the National Park System, including—
(i) section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sec-
tions 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101 of
title 54, United States Code; and
(ii) chapter 3201 of title 54, United States
Code.
(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date on which funds are first made
available to the Secretary for the prepara-
tion of a general management plan for the
Monument, the Secretary shall prepare a
general management plan for the Monument
in accordance with section 100502 of title 54,
United States Code.
(B) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—On comple-
tion of the general management plan, the
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives the general
management plan.
(g) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section
creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone
around the Monument.
(2) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE NATIONAL MONU-
MENT.—The fact that an activity or use on
land outside the Monument can be seen or
heard within the Monument shall not pre-
clude the activity or use outside the bound-
ary of the Monument.
(h) CONFLICTS.—If there is conflict between
this section and Proclamation 9811 (83 Fed.
Reg. 54845; October 31, 2018), this section
shall control.
Subtitle E—National Park System
Management
SEC. 2401. DENALI NATIONAL PARK AND PRE-
SERVE NATURAL GAS PIPELINE.
(a) PERMIT.—Section 3(b)(1) of the Denali
National Park Improvement Act (Public Law
113–33; 127 Stat. 516) is amended by striking
‘‘within, along, or near the approximately 7-
mile segment of the George Parks Highway
that runs through the Park’’.
(b) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—Section 3(c)(1)
of the Denali National Park Improvement
Act (Public Law 113–33; 127 Stat. 516) is
amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1077
February 7, 2019
(2) by striking subparagraph (B); and
(3) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as
subparagraph (B).
(c) APPLICABLE LAW.—Section 3 of the
Denali National Park Improvement Act
(Public Law 113–33; 127 Stat. 515) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) APPLICABLE LAW.—A high pressure gas
transmission pipeline (including appur-
tenances) in a nonwilderness area within the
boundary of the Park, shall not be subject to
title XI of the Alaska National Interest
Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3161 et
seq.).’’.
SEC. 2402. HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES HISTORIC PRESERVA-
TION PROGRAM REAUTHORIZED.
Section 507(d)(2) of the Omnibus Parks and
Public Lands Management Act of 1996 (54
U.S.C. 302101 note) is amended by striking
the period at the end and inserting ‘‘and
each of fiscal years 2018 through 2024.’’.
SEC. 2403. AUTHORIZING COOPERATIVE MANAGE-
MENT AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA AND THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
The Secretary may enter into a coopera-
tive management agreement with the Dis-
trict of Columbia in accordance with section
101703 of title 54, United States Code.
SEC. 2404. FEES FOR MEDICAL SERVICES.
(a) FEES AUTHORIZED.—The Secretary may
establish and collect fees for medical serv-
ices provided to persons in units of the Na-
tional Park System or for medical services
provided by National Park Service personnel
outside units of the National Park System.
(b) NATIONAL PARK MEDICAL SERVICES
FUND.—There is established in the Treasury
a fund, to be known as the ‘‘National Park
Medical Services Fund’’ (referred to in this
section as the ‘‘Fund’’). The Fund shall con-
sist of—
(1) donations to the Fund; and
(2) fees collected under subsection (a).
(c) AVAILABILITY OF AMOUNTS.—All
amounts deposited into the Fund shall be
available to the Secretary, to the extent pro-
vided in advance by Acts of appropriation,
for the following in units of the National
Park System:
(1) Services listed in subsection (a).
(2) Preparing needs assessments or other
programmatic analyses for medical facili-
ties, equipment, vehicles, and other needs
and costs of providing services listed in sub-
section (a).
(3) Developing management plans for med-
ical facilities, equipment, vehicles, and other
needs and costs of services listed in sub-
section (a).
(4) Training related to providing services
listed in subsection (a).
(5) Obtaining or improving medical facili-
ties, equipment, vehicles, and other needs
and costs of providing services listed in sub-
section (a).
SEC. 2405. AUTHORITY TO GRANT EASEMENTS
AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY OVER FEDERAL
LANDS WITHIN GATEWAY NATIONAL
RECREATION AREA.
Section 3 of Public Law 92–592 (16 U.S.C.
460cc–2) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(j) AUTHORITY TO GRANT EASEMENTS AND
RIGHTS-OF-WAY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the In-
terior may grant, to any State or local gov-
ernment, an easement or right-of-way over
Federal lands within Gateway National
Recreation Area for construction, operation,
and maintenance of projects for control and
prevention of flooding and shoreline erosion.
‘‘(2) CHARGES AND REIMBURSEMENT OF
COSTS.—The Secretary may grant such an
easement or right-of-way without charge for
the value of the right so conveyed, except for
reimbursement of costs incurred by the
United States for processing the application
therefore and managing such right. Amounts
received as such reimbursement shall be
credited to the relevant appropriation ac-
count.’’.
SEC. 2406. ADAMS MEMORIAL COMMISSION.
(a) COMMISSION.—There is established a
commission to be known as the ‘‘Adams Me-
morial Commission’’ (referred to in this sec-
tion as the ‘‘Commission’’) for the purpose of
establishing a permanent memorial to honor
John Adams and his legacy as authorized by
Public Law 107–62 (115 Stat. 411), located in
the city of Washington, District of Columbia,
including sites authorized by Public Law 107–
315 (116 Stat. 2763).
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—The Commission shall be
composed of—
(1) 4 persons appointed by the President,
not more than 2 of whom may be members of
the same political party;
(2) 4 Members of the Senate appointed by
the President pro tempore of the Senate in
consultation with the Majority Leader and
Minority Leader of the Senate, of which not
more than 2 appointees may be members of
the same political party; and
(3) 4 Members of the House of Representa-
tives appointed by the Speaker of the House
of Representatives in consultation with the
Majority Leader and Minority Leader of the
House of Representatives, of which not more
than 2 appointees may be members of the
same political party.
(c) CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR.—The members of
the Commission shall select a Chair and Vice
Chair of the Commission. The Chair and Vice
Chair shall not be members of the same po-
litical party.
(d) VACANCIES.—Any vacancy in the Com-
mission shall not affect its powers if a
quorum is present, but shall be filled in the
same manner as the original appointment.
(e) MEETINGS.—
(1) INITIAL MEETING.—Not later than 45
days after the date on which a majority of
the members of the Commission have been
appointed, the Commission shall hold its
first meeting.
(2) SUBSEQUENT MEETINGS.—The Commis-
sion shall meet at the call of the Chair.
(f) QUORUM.—A majority of the members of
the Commission shall constitute a quorum
but a lesser number of members may hold
hearings.
(g) NO COMPENSATION.—A member of the
Commission shall serve without compensa-
tion, but may be reimbursed for expenses in-
curred in carrying out the duties of the Com-
mission.
(h) DUTIES.—The Commission shall con-
sider and formulate plans for a permanent
memorial to honor John Adams and his leg-
acy, including the nature, location, design,
and construction of the memorial.
(i) POWERS.—The Commission may—
(1) make such expenditures for services and
materials for the purpose of carrying out
this section as the Commission considers ad-
visable from funds appropriated or received
as gifts for that purpose;
(2) accept gifts, including funds from the
Adams Memorial Foundation, to be used in
carrying out this section or to be used in
connection with the construction or other
expenses of the memorial; and
(3) hold hearings, enter into contracts for
personal services and otherwise, and do such
other things as are necessary to carry out
this section.
(j) REPORTS.—The Commission shall—
(1) report the plans required by subsection
(h), together with recommendations, to the
President and the Congress at the earliest
practicable date; and
(2) in the interim, make annual reports on
its progress to the President and the Con-
gress.
(k) APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS.—The
Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C.
App.) shall not apply to the Commission.
(l) TERMINATION.—The Commission shall
terminate on December 2, 2025.
(m) AMENDMENTS TO PUBLIC LAW 107–62.—
(1) REFERENCES TO COMMISSION.—Public
Law 107–62 (115 Stat. 411) is amended by
striking ‘‘Adams Memorial Foundation’’
each place it occurs and inserting ‘‘Adams
Memorial Commission’’.
(2) EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION.—Section
1(c) of Public Law 107–62 (115 Stat. 411; 124
Stat. 1192; 127 Stat. 3880) is amended by
striking ‘‘2020’’ and inserting ‘‘2025’’.
SEC. 2407. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO REF-
ERENCES TO THE AFRICAN AMER-
ICAN CIVIL RIGHTS NETWORK.
(a) CHAPTER AMENDMENTS.—Chapter 3084 of
title 54, United States Code, is amended by
striking ‘‘U.S. Civil Rights Network’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘African
American Civil Rights Network’’ (using iden-
tical font as used in the text being replaced).
(b) AMENDMENTS TO LIST OF ITEMS.—The
list of items of title 54, United States Code,
is amended by striking ‘‘U.S. Civil Rights
Network’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘African American Civil Rights Network’’
(using identical font as used in the text
being replaced).
(c) REFERENCES.—Any reference in any law
(other than in this section), regulation, doc-
ument, record, map, or other paper of the
United States to the ‘‘U.S. Civil Rights Net-
work’’ shall be considered to be a reference
to the ‘‘African American Civil Rights Net-
work’’.
SEC. 2408. TRANSFER OF THE JAMES J. HOWARD
MARINE SCIENCES LABORATORY.
Section 7 of Public Law 100–515 (16 U.S.C.
1244 note) is amended by striking subsection
(b) and inserting the following:
‘‘(b) TRANSFER FROM THE STATE TO THE NA-
TIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINIS-
TRATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, or the provisions of
the August 13, 1991, Ground Lease Agreement
(‘Lease’) between the Department of the In-
terior and the State of New Jersey (‘State’),
upon notice to the National Park Service,
the State may transfer without consider-
ation, and the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration may accept, all State
improvements within the land assignment
and right of way, including the James J.
Howard Marine Sciences Laboratory (‘Lab-
oratory’), two parking lots, and the seawater
supply and backflow pipes as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘Gateway Na-
tional Recreation Area, James J. Howard
Marine Science Laboratory Land Assign-
ment’, numbered 646/142,581A, and dated
April 2018 (‘Map’) and any related State per-
sonal property.
‘‘(2) LEASE AMENDMENT.—Upon the transfer
authorized in paragraph (1), the Lease shall
be amended to exclude any obligations of the
State and the Department of the Interior re-
lated to the Laboratory and associated prop-
erty and improvements transferred to the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration. However, all obligations of the State
to rehabilitate Building 74 and modify land-
scaping on the surrounding property as de-
picted on the Map, under the Lease and pur-
suant to subsection (a), shall remain in full
force and effect.
‘‘(3) USE BY THE NATIONAL OCEANIC AND AT-
MOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION.—Upon the trans-
fer authorized in paragraph (1), the Adminis-
trator of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration is authorized to use
the land generally depicted on the Map as a
land assignment and right of way and associ-
ated land and appurtenances for continued
use of the Laboratory, including providing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1078 February 7, 2019
maintenance and repair, and access to the
Laboratory, the parking lots and the sea-
water supply and back flow pipes, without
consideration, except for reimbursement to
the National Park Service of agreed upon
reasonable actual costs of subsequently pro-
vided goods and services.
‘‘(4) AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE NATIONAL
PARK SERVICE AND THE NATIONAL OCEANIC AND
ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION.—Upon the
transfer authorized in paragraph (1), the Di-
rector of the National Park Service and the
Administrator of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration shall enter into
an agreement addressing responsibilities per-
taining to the use of the land assignment
within the Sandy Hook Unit of the Gateway
National Recreation Area as authorized in
paragraph (3). The agreement shall prohibit
any new construction on this land, perma-
nent or nonpermanent, or significant alter-
ation to the exterior of the Laboratory,
without National Park Service approval.
‘‘(5) RESTORATION.—
‘‘(A) Notwithstanding any provision of the
Lease to the contrary, if the State does not
transfer the improvements as authorized in
paragraph (1), and these improvements are
not used as or in support of a marine science
laboratory, the State shall demolish and re-
move the improvements and restore the land
in accordance with the standards set forth
by the National Park Service, free of unac-
ceptable encumbrances and in compliance
with all applicable laws and regulations re-
garding known contaminants.
‘‘(B) If the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration accepts the improve-
ments as authorized in paragraph (1) and
these improvements are not used as or in
support of a marine science laboratory, the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration shall be responsible for demolishing
and removing these improvements and re-
storing the land, in accordance with the
standards set forth by the National Park
Service, free of unacceptable encumbrances
and in compliance with all applicable laws
and regulations regarding known contami-
nants.’’.
SEC. 2409. BOWS IN PARKS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 1049 of title 54,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘§ 104908. Bows in parks
‘‘(a) DEFINITION OF NOT READY FOR IMME-
DIATE USE.—The term ‘not ready for imme-
diate use’ means—
‘‘(1) a bow or crossbow, the arrows of which
are secured or stowed in a quiver or other
arrow transport case; and
‘‘(2) with respect to a crossbow, uncocked.
‘‘(b) VEHICULAR TRANSPORTATION AUTHOR-
IZED.—The Director shall not promulgate or
enforce any regulation that prohibits an in-
dividual from transporting bows and cross-
bows that are not ready for immediate use
across any System unit in the vehicle of the
individual if—
‘‘(1) the individual is not otherwise prohib-
ited by law from possessing the bows and
crossbows;
‘‘(2) the bows or crossbows that are not
ready for immediate use remain inside the
vehicle of the individual throughout the pe-
riod during which the bows or crossbows are
transported across System land; and
‘‘(3) the possession of the bows and cross-
bows is in compliance with the law of the
State in which the System unit is located.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 1049 of title 54, United
States Code, is amended by inserting after
the item relating to section 104907 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘104908. Bows in parks.’’.
SEC. 2410. WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT IN PARKS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 1049 of title 54,
United States Code (as amended by section
2409(a)), is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘§ 104909. Wildlife management in parks
‘‘(a) USE OF QUALIFIED VOLUNTEERS.—If the
Secretary determines it is necessary to re-
duce the size of a wildlife population on Sys-
tem land in accordance with applicable law
(including regulations), the Secretary may
use qualified volunteers to assist in carrying
out wildlife management on System land.
‘‘(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR QUALIFIED VOLUN-
TEERS.—Qualified volunteers providing as-
sistance under subsection (a) shall be subject
to—
‘‘(1) any training requirements or quali-
fications established by the Secretary; and
‘‘(2) any other terms and conditions that
the Secretary may require.
‘‘(c) DONATIONS.—The Secretary may au-
thorize the donation and distribution of
meat from wildlife management activities
carried out under this section, including the
donation and distribution to Indian Tribes,
qualified volunteers, food banks, and other
organizations that work to address hunger,
in accordance with applicable health guide-
lines and such terms and conditions as the
Secretary may require.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for chapter 1049 of title 54 (as
amended by section 2409(b)), United States
Code, is amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 104908 the following:
‘‘104909. Wildlife management in parks.’’.
SEC. 2411. POTTAWATTAMIE COUNTY REVER-
SIONARY INTEREST.
Section 2 of Public Law 101–191 (103 Stat.
1697) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(g) CONVEYANCE OF REVERSIONARY INTER-
EST.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary deter-
mines that it is no longer in the public inter-
est to operate and maintain the center, sub-
ject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may
enter into 1 or more agreements—
‘‘(A) to convey the reversionary interest
held by the United States and described in
the quitclaim deed dated April 13, 1998, in-
strument number 19170, and as recorded in
book 98, page 55015, in Pottawattamie Coun-
ty, Iowa (referred to in this subsection as the
‘deed’); and
‘‘(B) to extinguish the requirement in the
deed that alterations to structures on the
property may not be made without the au-
thorization of the Secretary.
‘‘(2) CONSIDERATION.—A reversionary inter-
est may be conveyed under paragraph
(1)(A)—
‘‘(A) without consideration, if the land sub-
ject to the reversionary interest is required
to be used in perpetuity for public rec-
reational, educational, or similar purposes;
or
‘‘(B) for consideration in an amount equal
to the fair market value of the reversionary
interest, as determined based on an appraisal
that is conducted in accordance with—
‘‘(i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
‘‘(ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
‘‘(3) EXECUTION OF AGREEMENTS.—The Sec-
retary shall execute appropriate instruments
to carry out an agreement entered into
under paragraph (1).
‘‘(4) EFFECT ON PRIOR AGREEMENT.—Effec-
tive on the date on which the Secretary has
executed instruments under paragraph (3)
and all Federal interests in the land and
properties acquired under this Act have been
conveyed, the agreement between the Na-
tional Park Service and the State Historical
Society of Iowa, dated July 21, 1995, and en-
tered into under subsection (d), shall have no
force or effect.’’.
SEC. 2412. DESIGNATION OF DEAN STONE
BRIDGE.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The bridge located in
Blount County, Tennessee, on the Foothills
Parkway (commonly known as ‘‘Bridge 2’’)
shall be known and designated as the ‘‘Dean
Stone Bridge’’.
(b) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the bridge re-
ferred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to
be a reference to the ‘‘Dean Stone Bridge’’.
Subtitle F—National Trails and Related
Matters
SEC. 2501. NORTH COUNTRY SCENIC TRAIL
ROUTE ADJUSTMENT.
Section 5(a)(8) of the National Trails Sys-
tem Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)(8)) is amended in
the first sentence—
(1) by striking ‘‘thirty two hundred miles,
extending from eastern New York State’’ and
inserting ‘‘4,600 miles, extending from the
Appalachian Trail in Vermont’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘Proposed North Country
Trail’’ and all that follows through ‘‘June
1975.’’ and inserting ‘‘ ‘North Country Na-
tional Scenic Trail, Authorized Route’, dated
February 2014, and numbered 649/116870.’’.
SEC. 2502. EXTENSION OF LEWIS AND CLARK NA-
TIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL.
(a) EXTENSION.—Section 5(a)(6) of the Na-
tional Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)(6))
is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘three thousand seven hun-
dred’’ and inserting ‘‘4,900’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘Wood River, Illinois,’’ and
inserting ‘‘the Ohio River in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania,’’; and
(3) by striking ‘‘maps identified as, ‘Vicin-
ity Map, Lewis and Clark Trail’ study report
dated April 1977.’’ and inserting ‘‘the map en-
titled ‘Lewis and Clark National Historic
Trail Authorized Trail Including Proposed
Eastern Legacy Extension’, dated April 2018,
and numbered 648/143721.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsection (a) shall take effect on
the date that is 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
SEC. 2503. AMERICAN DISCOVERY TRAIL SIGN-
AGE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) SECRETARY CONCERNED.—The term ‘‘Sec-
retary concerned’’ means—
(A) the Secretary, with respect to Federal
land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary;
or
(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to Federal land under the jurisdiction
of the Secretary of Agriculture.
(2) TRAIL.—The term ‘‘Trail’’ means the
trail known as the ‘‘American Discovery
Trail’’, which consists of approximately 6,800
miles of trails extending from Cape Henlopen
State Park in Delaware to Point Reyes Na-
tional Seashore in California, as generally
described in volume 2 of the National Park
Service feasibility study dated June 1995.
(b) SIGNAGE AUTHORIZED.—As soon as prac-
ticable after the date on which signage ac-
ceptable to the Secretary concerned is do-
nated to the United States for placement on
Federal land at points along the Trail, the
Secretary concerned shall place the signage
on the Federal land.
(c) NO FEDERAL FUNDS.—No Federal funds
may be used to acquire signage authorized
for placement under subsection (b).
SEC. 2504. PIKE NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL
STUDY.
Section 5(c) of the National Trails System
Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(c)) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(46) PIKE NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL.—The
Pike National Historic Trail, a series of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1079
February 7, 2019
routes extending approximately 3,664 miles,
which follows the route taken by Lt. Zebulon
Montgomery Pike during the 1806–1807 Pike
expedition that began in Fort Bellefontaine,
Missouri, extended through portions of the
States of Kansas, Nebraska, Colorado, New
Mexico, and Texas, and ended in
Natchitoches, Louisiana.’’.
TITLE III—CONSERVATION
AUTHORIZATIONS
SEC. 3001. REAUTHORIZATION OF LAND AND
WATER CONSERVATION FUND.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 200302 of title 54,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘During
the period ending September 30, 2018, there’’
and inserting ‘‘There’’; and
(2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking
‘‘through September 30, 2018’’.
(b) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—Section 200304
of title 54, United States Code, is amended—
(1) by striking the second sentence;
(2) by striking ‘‘There’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(b) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.—Of the total
amount made available to the Fund through
appropriations or deposited in the Fund
under section 105(a)(2)(B) of the Gulf of Mex-
ico Energy Security Act of 2006 (43 U.S.C.
1331 note; Public Law 109–432)—
‘‘(1) not less than 40 percent shall be used
for Federal purposes; and
‘‘(2) not less than 40 percent shall be used
to provide financial assistance to States.’’.
(c) PARITY FOR TERRITORIES AND THE DIS-
TRICT OF COLUMBIA.—Section 200305(b) of title
54, United States Code, is amended by strik-
ing paragraph (5).
(d) RECREATIONAL PUBLIC ACCESS.—Section
200306 of title 54, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c) RECREATIONAL PUBLIC ACCESS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the amounts made
available for expenditure in any fiscal year
under section 200303, there shall be made
available for recreational public access
projects identified on the priority list devel-
oped under paragraph (2) not less than the
greater of—
‘‘(A) an amount equal to 3 percent of those
amounts; or
‘‘(B) $15,000,000.
‘‘(2) PRIORITY LIST.—The Secretary and the
Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation
with the head of each affected Federal agen-
cy, shall annually develop a priority list for
projects that, through acquisition of land (or
an interest in land), secure recreational pub-
lic access to Federal land under the jurisdic-
tion of the applicable Secretary for hunting,
fishing, recreational shooting, or other out-
door recreational purposes.’’.
(e) ACQUISITION CONSIDERATIONS.—Section
200306 of title 54, United States Code (as
amended by subsection (d)), is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) ACQUISITION CONSIDERATIONS.—In de-
termining whether to acquire land (or an in-
terest in land) under this section, the Sec-
retary and the Secretary of Agriculture shall
take into account—
‘‘(1) the significance of the acquisition;
‘‘(2) the urgency of the acquisition;
‘‘(3) management efficiencies;
‘‘(4) management cost savings;
‘‘(5) geographic distribution;
‘‘(6) threats to the integrity of the land;
and
‘‘(7) the recreational value of the land.’’.
SEC. 3002. CONSERVATION INCENTIVES LAND-
OWNER EDUCATION PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish a conservation in-
centives landowner education program (re-
ferred to in this section as the ‘‘program’’).
(b) PURPOSE OF PROGRAM.—The program
shall provide information on Federal con-
servation programs available to landowners
interested in undertaking conservation ac-
tions on the land of the landowners, includ-
ing options under each conservation program
available to achieve the conservation goals
of the program, such as—
(1) fee title land acquisition;
(2) donation; and
(3) perpetual and term conservation ease-
ments or agreements.
(c) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary shall en-
sure that the information provided under the
program is made available to—
(1) interested landowners; and
(2) the public.
(d) NOTIFICATION.—In any case in which the
Secretary contacts a landowner directly
about participation in a Federal conserva-
tion program, the Secretary shall, in writ-
ing—
(1) notify the landowner of the program;
and
(2) make available information on the con-
servation program options that may be
available to the landowner.
TITLE IV—SPORTSMEN’S ACCESS AND
RELATED MATTERS
Subtitle A—National Policy
SEC. 4001. CONGRESSIONAL DECLARATION OF
NATIONAL POLICY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Congress declares that it
is the policy of the United States that Fed-
eral departments and agencies, in accord-
ance with the missions of the departments
and agencies, Executive Orders 12962 and
13443 (60 Fed. Reg. 30769 (June 7, 1995); 72 Fed.
Reg. 46537 (August 16, 2007)), and applicable
law, shall—
(1) facilitate the expansion and enhance-
ment of hunting, fishing, and recreational
shooting opportunities on Federal land, in
consultation with the Wildlife and Hunting
Heritage Conservation Council, the Sport
Fishing and Boating Partnership Council,
State and Tribal fish and wildlife agencies,
and the public;
(2) conserve and enhance aquatic systems
and the management of game species and the
habitat of those species on Federal land, in-
cluding through hunting and fishing, in a
manner that respects—
(A) State management authority over
wildlife resources; and
(B) private property rights; and
(3) consider hunting, fishing, and rec-
reational shooting opportunities as part of
all Federal plans for land, resource, and trav-
el management.
(b) EXCLUSION.—In this title, the term
‘‘fishing’’ does not include commercial fish-
ing in which fish are harvested, either in
whole or in part, that are intended to enter
commerce through sale.
Subtitle B—Sportsmen’s Access to Federal
Land
SEC. 4101. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means—
(A) any land in the National Forest Sys-
tem (as defined in section 11(a) of the Forest
and Rangeland Renewable Resources Plan-
ning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1609(a))) that is ad-
ministered by the Secretary of Agriculture,
acting through the Chief of the Forest Serv-
ice; and
(B) public lands (as defined in section 103 of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702)), the surface of
which is administered by the Secretary, act-
ing through the Director of the Bureau of
Land Management.
(2) SECRETARY CONCERNED.—The term ‘‘Sec-
retary concerned’’ means—
(A) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to land described in paragraph (1)(A);
and
(B) the Secretary, with respect to land de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(B).
SEC. 4102. FEDERAL LAND OPEN TO HUNTING,
FISHING, AND RECREATIONAL
SHOOTING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (b),
Federal land shall be open to hunting, fish-
ing, and recreational shooting, in accordance
with applicable law, unless the Secretary
concerned closes an area in accordance with
section 4103.
(b) EFFECT OF PART.—Nothing in this sub-
title opens to hunting, fishing, or rec-
reational shooting any land that is not open
to those activities as of the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
SEC. 4103. CLOSURE OF FEDERAL LAND TO HUNT-
ING, FISHING, AND RECREATIONAL
SHOOTING.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2)
and in accordance with section 302(b) of the
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1732(b)), the Secretary con-
cerned may designate any area on Federal
land in which, and establish any period dur-
ing which, for reasons of public safety, ad-
ministration, or compliance with applicable
laws, no hunting, fishing, or recreational
shooting shall be permitted.
(2) REQUIREMENT.—In making a designation
under paragraph (1), the Secretary concerned
shall designate the smallest area for the
least amount of time that is required for
public safety, administration, or compliance
with applicable laws.
(b) CLOSURE PROCEDURES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except in an emergency,
before permanently or temporarily closing
any Federal land to hunting, fishing, or rec-
reational shooting, the Secretary concerned
shall—
(A) consult with State fish and wildlife
agencies; and
(B) provide public notice and opportunity
for comment under paragraph (2).
(2) PUBLIC NOTICE AND COMMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Public notice and com-
ment shall include—
(i) a notice of intent—
(I) published in advance of the public com-
ment period for the closure—
(aa) in the Federal Register;
(bb) on the website of the applicable Fed-
eral agency;
(cc) on the website of the Federal land
unit, if available; and
(dd) in at least 1 local newspaper;
(II) made available in advance of the public
comment period to local offices, chapters,
and affiliate organizations in the vicinity of
the closure that are signatories to the
memorandum of understanding entitled
‘‘Federal Lands Hunting, Fishing, and Shoot-
ing Sports Roundtable Memorandum of Un-
derstanding’’; and
(III) that describes—
(aa) the proposed closure; and
(bb) the justification for the proposed clo-
sure, including an explanation of the reasons
and necessity for the decision to close the
area to hunting, fishing, or recreational
shooting; and
(ii) an opportunity for public comment for
a period of—
(I) not less than 60 days for a permanent
closure; or
(II) not less than 30 days for a temporary
closure.
(B) FINAL DECISION.—In a final decision to
permanently or temporarily close an area to
hunting, fishing, or recreation shooting, the
Secretary concerned shall—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1080 February 7, 2019
(i) respond in a reasoned manner to the
comments received;
(ii) explain how the Secretary concerned
resolved any significant issues raised by the
comments; and
(iii) show how the resolution led to the clo-
sure.
(c) TEMPORARY CLOSURES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A temporary closure
under this section may not exceed a period of
180 days.
(2) RENEWAL.—Except in an emergency, a
temporary closure for the same area of land
closed to the same activities—
(A) may not be renewed more than 3 times
after the first temporary closure; and
(B) must be subject to a separate notice
and comment procedure in accordance with
subsection (b)(2).
(3) EFFECT OF TEMPORARY CLOSURE.—Any
Federal land that is temporarily closed to
hunting, fishing, or recreational shooting
under this section shall not become perma-
nently closed to that activity without a sep-
arate public notice and opportunity to com-
ment in accordance with subsection (b)(2).
(d) REPORTING.—On an annual basis, the
Secretaries concerned shall—
(1) publish on a public website a list of all
areas of Federal land temporarily or perma-
nently subject to a closure under this sec-
tion; and
(2) submit to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources and the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the
Senate and the Committee on Natural Re-
sources and the Committee on Agriculture of
the House of Representatives a report that
identifies—
(A) a list of each area of Federal land tem-
porarily or permanently subject to a closure;
(B) the acreage of each closure; and
(C) a survey of—
(i) the aggregate areas and acreage closed
under this section in each State; and
(ii) the percentage of Federal land in each
State closed under this section with respect
to hunting, fishing, and recreational shoot-
ing.
(e) APPLICATION.—This section shall not
apply if the closure is—
(1) less than 14 days in duration; and
(2) covered by a special use permit.
SEC. 4104. SHOOTING RANGES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsection (b), the Secretary concerned may,
in accordance with this section and other ap-
plicable law, lease or permit the use of Fed-
eral land for a shooting range.
(b) EXCEPTION.—The Secretary concerned
shall not lease or permit the use of Federal
land for a shooting range within—
(1) a component of the National Landscape
Conservation System;
(2) a component of the National Wilderness
Preservation System;
(3) any area that is—
(A) designated as a wilderness study area;
(B) administratively classified as—
(i) wilderness-eligible; or
(ii) wilderness-suitable; or
(C) a primitive or semiprimitive area;
(4) a national monument, national volcanic
monument, or national scenic area; or
(5) a component of the National Wild and
Scenic Rivers System (including areas des-
ignated for study for potential addition to
the National Wild and Scenic Rivers Sys-
tem).
SEC. 4105. IDENTIFYING OPPORTUNITIES FOR
RECREATION, HUNTING, AND FISH-
ING ON FEDERAL LAND.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means—
(A) the Secretary, with respect to land ad-
ministered by—
(i) the Director of the National Park Serv-
ice;
(ii) the Director of the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service; and
(iii) the Director of the Bureau of Land
Management; and
(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to land administered by the Chief of
the Forest Service.
(2) STATE OR REGIONAL OFFICE.—The term
‘‘State or regional office’’ means—
(A) a State office of the Bureau of Land
Management; or
(B) a regional office of—
(i) the National Park Service;
(ii) the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service; or
(iii) the Forest Service.
(3) TRAVEL MANAGEMENT PLAN.—The term
‘‘travel management plan’’ means a plan for
the management of travel—
(A) with respect to land under the jurisdic-
tion of the National Park Service, on park
roads and designated routes under section
4.10 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations
(or successor regulations);
(B) with respect to land under the jurisdic-
tion of the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service, on the land under a comprehensive
conservation plan prepared under section
4(e) of the National Wildlife Refuge System
Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C.
668dd(e));
(C) with respect to land under the jurisdic-
tion of the Forest Service, on National For-
est System land under part 212 of title 36,
Code of Federal Regulations (or successor
regulations); and
(D) with respect to land under the jurisdic-
tion of the Bureau of Land Management,
under a resource management plan devel-
oped under the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et
seq.).
(b) PRIORITY LISTS REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, and bien-
nially thereafter during the 10-year period
beginning on the date on which the first pri-
ority list is completed, the Secretary shall
prepare a priority list, to be made publicly
available on the website of the applicable
Federal agency referred to in subsection
(a)(1), which shall identify the location and
acreage of land within the jurisdiction of
each State or regional office on which the
public is allowed, under Federal or State
law, to hunt, fish, or use the land for other
recreational purposes but—
(A) to which there is no public access or
egress; or
(B) to which public access or egress to the
legal boundaries of the land is significantly
restricted (as determined by the Secretary).
(2) MINIMUM SIZE.—Any land identified
under paragraph (1) shall consist of contig-
uous acreage of at least 640 acres.
(3) CONSIDERATIONS.—In preparing the pri-
ority list required under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall consider, with respect to the
land—
(A) whether access is absent or merely re-
stricted, including the extent of the restric-
tion;
(B) the likelihood of resolving the absence
of or restriction to public access;
(C) the potential for recreational use;
(D) any information received from the pub-
lic or other stakeholders during the nomina-
tion process described in paragraph (5); and
(E) any other factor, as determined by the
Secretary.
(4) ADJACENT LAND STATUS.—For each par-
cel of land on the priority list, the Secretary
shall include in the priority list whether re-
solving the issue of public access or egress to
the land would require acquisition of an
easement, right-of-way, or fee title from—
(A) another Federal agency;
(B) a State, local, or Tribal government; or
(C) a private landowner.
(5) NOMINATION PROCESS.—In preparing a
priority list under this section, the Sec-
retary shall provide an opportunity for mem-
bers of the public to nominate parcels for in-
clusion on the priority list.
(c) ACCESS OPTIONS.—With respect to land
included on a priority list described in sub-
section (b), the Secretary shall develop and
submit to the Committees on Appropriations
and Energy and Natural Resources of the
Senate and the Committees on Appropria-
tions and Natural Resources of the House of
Representatives a report on options for pro-
viding access that—
(1) identifies how public access and egress
could reasonably be provided to the legal
boundaries of the land in a manner that
minimizes the impact on wildlife habitat and
water quality;
(2) specifies the steps recommended to se-
cure the access and egress, including acquir-
ing an easement, right-of-way, or fee title
from a willing owner of any land that abuts
the land or the need to coordinate with State
land management agencies or other Federal,
State, or Tribal governments to allow for
such access and egress; and
(3) is consistent with the travel manage-
ment plan in effect on the land.
(d) PROTECTION OF PERSONALLY IDENTI-
FYING INFORMATION.—In making the priority
list and report prepared under subsections
(b) and (c) available, the Secretary shall en-
sure that no personally identifying informa-
tion is included, such as names or addresses
of individuals or entities.
(e) WILLING OWNERS.—For purposes of pro-
viding any permits to, or entering into
agreements with, a State, local, or Tribal
government or private landowner with re-
spect to the use of land under the jurisdic-
tion of the government or landowner, the
Secretary shall not take into account wheth-
er the State, local, or Tribal government or
private landowner has granted or denied pub-
lic access or egress to the land.
(f) MEANS OF PUBLIC ACCESS AND EGRESS
INCLUDED.—In considering public access and
egress under subsections (b) and (c), the Sec-
retary shall consider public access and egress
to the legal boundaries of the land described
in those subsections, including access and
egress—
(1) by motorized or non-motorized vehicles;
and
(2) on foot or horseback.
(g) EFFECT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—This section shall have no
effect on whether a particular recreational
use shall be allowed on the land included in
a priority list under this section.
(2) EFFECT OF ALLOWABLE USES ON AGENCY
CONSIDERATION.—In preparing the priority
list under subsection (b), the Secretary shall
only consider recreational uses that are al-
lowed on the land at the time that the pri-
ority list is prepared.
Subtitle C—Open Book on Equal Access to
Justice
SEC. 4201. FEDERAL ACTION TRANSPARENCY.
(a) MODIFICATION OF EQUAL ACCESS TO JUS-
TICE PROVISIONS.—
(1) AGENCY PROCEEDINGS.—Section 504 of
title 5, United States Code, is amended—
(A) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ‘‘,
United States Code’’;
(B) by redesignating subsection (f) as sub-
section (i); and
(C) by striking subsection (e) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(e)(1) Not later than March 31 of the first
fiscal year beginning after the date of enact-
ment of the Natural Resources Management
Act, and every fiscal year thereafter, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1081
February 7, 2019
Chairman of the Administrative Conference
of the United States, after consultation with
the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small
Business Administration, shall submit to
Congress and make publicly available online
a report on the amount of fees and other ex-
penses awarded during the preceding fiscal
year under this section.
‘‘(2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall
describe the number, nature, and amount of
the awards, the claims involved in the con-
troversy, and any other relevant information
that may aid Congress in evaluating the
scope and impact of such awards.
‘‘(3)(A) Each report under paragraph (1)
shall account for all payments of fees and
other expenses awarded under this section
that are made pursuant to a settlement
agreement, regardless of whether the settle-
ment agreement is sealed or otherwise sub-
ject to a nondisclosure provision.
‘‘(B) The disclosure of fees and other ex-
penses required under subparagraph (A) shall
not affect any other information that is sub-
ject to a nondisclosure provision in a settle-
ment agreement.
‘‘(f) As soon as practicable, and in any
event not later than the date on which the
first report under subsection (e)(1) is re-
quired to be submitted, the Chairman of the
Administrative Conference of the United
States shall create and maintain online a
searchable database containing, with respect
to each award of fees and other expenses
under this section made on or after the date
of enactment of the Natural Resources Man-
agement Act, the following information:
‘‘(1) The case name and number of the ad-
versary adjudication, if available,
hyperlinked to the case, if available.
‘‘(2) The name of the agency involved in
the adversary adjudication.
‘‘(3) A description of the claims in the ad-
versary adjudication.
‘‘(4) The name of each party to whom the
award was made as such party is identified
in the order or other court document making
the award.
‘‘(5) The amount of the award.
‘‘(6) The basis for the finding that the posi-
tion of the agency concerned was not sub-
stantially justified.
‘‘(g) The online searchable database de-
scribed in subsection (f) may not reveal any
information the disclosure of which is pro-
hibited by law or a court order.
‘‘(h) The head of each agency shall provide
to the Chairman of the Administrative Con-
ference of the United States in a timely
manner all information requested by the
Chairman to comply with the requirements
of subsections (e), (f), and (g).’’.
(2) COURT CASES.—Section 2412(d) of title
28, United States Code, is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(5)(A) Not later than March 31 of the first
fiscal year beginning after the date of enact-
ment of the Natural Resources Management
Act, and every fiscal year thereafter, the
Chairman of the Administrative Conference
of the United States shall submit to Con-
gress and make publicly available online a
report on the amount of fees and other ex-
penses awarded during the preceding fiscal
year pursuant to this subsection.
‘‘(B) Each report under subparagraph (A)
shall describe the number, nature, and
amount of the awards, the claims involved in
the controversy, and any other relevant in-
formation that may aid Congress in evalu-
ating the scope and impact of such awards.
‘‘(C)(i) Each report under subparagraph (A)
shall account for all payments of fees and
other expenses awarded under this sub-
section that are made pursuant to a settle-
ment agreement, regardless of whether the
settlement agreement is sealed or otherwise
subject to a nondisclosure provision.
‘‘(ii) The disclosure of fees and other ex-
penses required under clause (i) shall not af-
fect any other information that is subject to
a nondisclosure provision in a settlement
agreement.
‘‘(D) The Chairman of the Administrative
Conference of the United States shall include
and clearly identify in each annual report
under subparagraph (A), for each case in
which an award of fees and other expenses is
included in the report—
‘‘(i) any amounts paid under section 1304 of
title 31 for a judgment in the case;
‘‘(ii) the amount of the award of fees and
other expenses; and
‘‘(iii) the statute under which the plaintiff
filed suit.
‘‘(6) As soon as practicable, and in any
event not later than the date on which the
first report under paragraph (5)(A) is re-
quired to be submitted, the Chairman of the
Administrative Conference of the United
States shall create and maintain online a
searchable database containing, with respect
to each award of fees and other expenses
under this subsection made on or after the
date of enactment of the Natural Resources
Management Act, the following information:
‘‘(A) The case name and number,
hyperlinked to the case, if available.
‘‘(B) The name of the agency involved in
the case.
‘‘(C) The name of each party to whom the
award was made as such party is identified
in the order or other court document making
the award.
‘‘(D) A description of the claims in the
case.
‘‘(E) The amount of the award.
‘‘(F) The basis for the finding that the po-
sition of the agency concerned was not sub-
stantially justified.
‘‘(7) The online searchable database de-
scribed in paragraph (6) may not reveal any
information the disclosure of which is pro-
hibited by law or a court order.
‘‘(8) The head of each agency (including the
Attorney General of the United States) shall
provide to the Chairman of the Administra-
tive Conference of the United States in a
timely manner all information requested by
the Chairman to comply with the require-
ments of paragraphs (5), (6), and (7).’’.
(3) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS.—Section 2412 of title 28, United
States Code, is amended—
(A) in subsection (d)(3), by striking
‘‘United States Code,’’; and
(B) in subsection (e)—
(i) by striking ‘‘of section 2412 of title 28,
United States Code,’’ and inserting ‘‘of this
section’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘of such title’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘of this title’’.
(b) JUDGMENT FUND TRANSPARENCY.—Sec-
tion 1304 of title 31, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) Beginning not later than the date that
is 60 days after the date of enactment of the
Natural Resources Management Act, and un-
less the disclosure of such information is
otherwise prohibited by law or a court order,
the Secretary of the Treasury shall make
available to the public on a website, as soon
as practicable, but not later than 30 days
after the date on which a payment under this
section is tendered, the following informa-
tion with regard to that payment:
‘‘(1) The name of the specific agency or en-
tity whose actions gave rise to the claim or
judgment.
‘‘(2) The name of the plaintiff or claimant.
‘‘(3) The name of counsel for the plaintiff
or claimant.
‘‘(4) The amount paid representing prin-
cipal liability, and any amounts paid rep-
resenting any ancillary liability, including
attorney fees, costs, and interest.
‘‘(5) A brief description of the facts that
gave rise to the claim.
‘‘(6) The name of the agency that sub-
mitted the claim.’’.
Subtitle D—Migratory Bird Framework and
Hunting Opportunities for Veterans
SEC. 4301. FEDERAL CLOSING DATE FOR HUNT-
ING OF DUCKS, MERGANSERS, AND
COOTS.
Section 3 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act
(16 U.S.C. 704) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(c) FEDERAL FRAMEWORK CLOSING DATE
FOR HUNTING OF DUCKS, MERGANSERS, AND
COOTS.—
‘‘(1) REGULATIONS RELATING TO FRAMEWORK
CLOSING DATE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In promulgating regula-
tions under subsection (a) relating to the
Federal framework for the closing date up to
which the States may select seasons for mi-
gratory bird hunting, except as provided in
paragraph (2), the Secretary shall, with re-
spect to the hunting season for ducks, mer-
gansers, and coots—
‘‘(i) subject to subparagraph (B), adopt the
recommendation of each respective flyway
council (as defined in section 20.152 of title
50, Code of Federal Regulations) for the Fed-
eral framework if the Secretary determines
that the recommendation is consistent with
science-based and sustainable harvest man-
agement; and
‘‘(ii) allow the States to establish the clos-
ing date for the hunting season in accord-
ance with the Federal framework.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENT.—The framework clos-
ing date promulgated by the Secretary under
subparagraph (A) shall not be later than Jan-
uary 31 of each year.
‘‘(2) SPECIAL HUNTING DAYS FOR YOUTHS,
VETERANS, AND ACTIVE MILITARY PER-
SONNEL.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the
Federal framework closing date under para-
graph (1) and subject to subparagraphs (B)
and (C), the Secretary shall allow States to
select 2 days for youths and 2 days for vet-
erans (as defined in section 101 of title 38,
United States Code) and members of the
Armed Forces on active duty, including
members of the National Guard and Reserves
on active duty (other than for training), to
hunt eligible ducks, geese, swans, mergan-
sers, coots, moorhens, and gallinules, if the
Secretary determines that the addition of
those days is consistent with science-based
and sustainable harvest management. Such
days shall be treated as separate from, and
in addition to, the annual Federal frame-
work hunting season lengths.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS.—In selecting days
under subparagraph (A), a State shall ensure
that—
‘‘(i) the days selected—
‘‘(I) may only include the hunting of duck,
geese, swan, merganser, coot, moorhen, and
gallinule species that are eligible for hunting
under the applicable annual Federal frame-
work;
‘‘(II) are not more than 14 days before or
after the Federal framework hunting season
for ducks, mergansers, and coots; and
‘‘(III) are otherwise consistent with the
Federal framework; and
‘‘(ii) the total number of days in a hunting
season for any migratory bird species, in-
cluding any days selected under subpara-
graph (A), is not more than 107 days.
‘‘(C) LIMITATION.—A State may combine
the 2 days allowed for youths with the 2 days
allowed for veterans and members of the
Armed Forces on active duty under subpara-
graph (A), but in no circumstance may a
State have more than a total of 4 additional
days added to its regular hunting season for
any purpose.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1082 February 7, 2019
‘‘(3) REGULATIONS.—The Secretary shall
promulgate regulations in accordance with
this subsection for the Federal framework
for migratory bird hunting for the 2019–2020
hunting season and each hunting season
thereafter.’’.
Subtitle E—Miscellaneous
SEC. 4401. RESPECT FOR TREATIES AND RIGHTS.
Nothing in this title or the amendments
made by this title—
(1) affects or modifies any treaty or other
right of any federally recognized Indian
Tribe; or
(2) modifies any provision of Federal law
relating to migratory birds or to endangered
or threatened species.
SEC. 4402. NO PRIORITY.
Nothing in this title or the amendments
made by this title provides a preference to
hunting, fishing, or recreational shooting
over any other use of Federal land or water.
SEC. 4403. STATE AUTHORITY FOR FISH AND
WILDLIFE.
Nothing in this title—
(1) authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture
or the Secretary to require Federal licenses
or permits to hunt and fish on Federal land;
or
(2) enlarges or diminishes the responsi-
bility or authority of States with respect to
fish and wildlife management.
TITLE V—HAZARDS AND MAPPING
SEC. 5001. NATIONAL VOLCANO EARLY WARNING
AND MONITORING SYSTEM.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the United States Geological Sur-
vey.
(2) SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘System’’ means
the National Volcano Early Warning and
Monitoring System established under sub-
section (b)(1)(A).
(b) NATIONAL VOLCANO EARLY WARNING AND
MONITORING SYSTEM.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish within the United States Geological
Survey a system, to be known as the ‘‘Na-
tional Volcano Early Warning and Moni-
toring System’’, to monitor, warn, and pro-
tect citizens of the United States from undue
and avoidable harm from volcanic activity.
(B) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the System
are—
(i) to organize, modernize, standardize, and
stabilize the monitoring systems of the vol-
cano observatories in the United States,
which includes the Alaska Volcano Observ-
atory, California Volcano Observatory, Cas-
cades Volcano Observatory, Hawaiian Vol-
cano Observatory, and Yellowstone Volcano
Observatory; and
(ii) to unify the monitoring systems of vol-
cano observatories in the United States into
a single interoperative system.
(C) OBJECTIVE.—The objective of the Sys-
tem is to monitor all the volcanoes in the
United States at a level commensurate with
the threat posed by the volcanoes by—
(i) upgrading existing networks on mon-
itored volcanoes;
(ii) installing new networks on
unmonitored volcanoes; and
(iii) employing geodetic and other compo-
nents when applicable.
(2) SYSTEM COMPONENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The System shall in-
clude—
(i) a national volcano watch office that is
operational 24 hours a day and 7 days a week;
(ii) a national volcano data center; and
(iii) an external grants program to support
research in volcano monitoring science and
technology.
(B) MODERNIZATION ACTIVITIES.—Mod-
ernization activities under the System shall
include the comprehensive application of
emerging technologies, including digital
broadband seismometers, real-time contin-
uous Global Positioning System receivers,
satellite and airborne radar interferometry,
acoustic pressure sensors, and spectrometry
to measure gas emissions.
(3) MANAGEMENT.—
(A) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to Congress a 5-year
management plan for establishing and oper-
ating the System.
(ii) INCLUSIONS.—The management plan
submitted under clause (i) shall include—
(I) annual cost estimates for modernization
activities and operation of the System;
(II) annual milestones, standards, and per-
formance goals; and
(III) recommendations for, and progress to-
wards, establishing new, or enhancing exist-
ing, partnerships to leverage resources.
(B) ADVISORY COMMITTEE.—The Secretary
shall establish an advisory committee to as-
sist the Secretary in implementing the Sys-
tem, to be comprised of representatives of
relevant agencies and members of the sci-
entific community, to be appointed by the
Secretary.
(C) PARTNERSHIPS.—The Secretary may
enter into cooperative agreements with in-
stitutions of higher education and State
agencies designating the institutions of
higher education and State agencies as vol-
cano observatory partners for the System.
(D) COORDINATION.—The Secretary shall co-
ordinate the activities under this section
with the heads of relevant Federal agencies,
including—
(i) the Secretary of Transportation;
(ii) the Administrator of the Federal Avia-
tion Administration;
(iii) the Administrator of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration; and
(iv) the Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
(4) ANNUAL REPORT.—Annually, the Sec-
retary shall submit to Congress a report that
describes the activities carried out under
this section.
(c) FUNDING.—
(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section $55,000,000 for the pe-
riod of fiscal years 2019 through 2023.
(2) EFFECT ON OTHER SOURCES OF FEDERAL
FUNDING.—Amounts made available under
this subsection shall supplement, and not
supplant, Federal funds made available for
other United States Geological Survey haz-
ards activities and programs.
SEC. 5002. REAUTHORIZATION OF NATIONAL
GEOLOGIC MAPPING ACT OF 1992.
(a) REAUTHORIZATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 9(a) of the Na-
tional Geologic Mapping Act of 1992 (43
U.S.C. 31h(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘2018’’
and inserting ‘‘2023’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
4(b)(1) of the National Geologic Mapping Act
of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31c(b)(1)) is amended by
striking ‘‘Omnibus Public Land Management
Act of 2009’’ each place it appears in subpara-
graphs (A) and (B) and inserting ‘‘Natural
Resources Management Act’’.
(b) GEOLOGIC MAPPING ADVISORY COM-
MITTEE.—Section 5(a)(3) of the National Geo-
logic Mapping Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 31d(a)(3))
is amended by striking ‘‘Associate Director
for Geology’’ and inserting ‘‘Associate Direc-
tor for Core Science Systems’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.—Section 3 of
the National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992
(43 U.S.C. 31b) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘section
6(d)(3)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 4(d)(3)’’;
(2) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘section
6(d)(1)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 4(d)(1)’’; and
(3) in paragraph (9), by striking ‘‘section
6(d)(2)’’ and inserting ‘‘section 4(d)(2)’’.
TITLE VI—NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS
SEC. 6001. NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA DESIGNA-
TIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The following areas are
designated as National Heritage Areas, to be
administered in accordance with this sec-
tion:
(1) APPALACHIAN FOREST NATIONAL HERIT-
AGE AREA, WEST VIRGINIA AND MARYLAND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Appalachian Forest National Heritage Area
in the States of West Virginia and Maryland,
as depicted on the map entitled ‘‘Appa-
lachian Forest National Heritage Area’’,
numbered T07/80,000, and dated October 2007,
including—
(i) Barbour, Braxton, Grant, Greenbrier,
Hampshire, Hardy, Mineral, Morgan, Nich-
olas, Pendleton, Pocahontas, Preston, Ran-
dolph, Tucker, Upshur, and Webster Counties
in West Virginia; and
(ii) Allegany and Garrett Counties in
Maryland.
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—The Ap-
palachian Forest Heritage Area, Inc., shall
be—
(i) the local coordinating entity for the Na-
tional Heritage Area designated by subpara-
graph (A) (referred to in this subparagraph
as the ‘‘local coordinating entity’’); and
(ii) governed by a board of directors that
shall—
(I) include members to represent a geo-
graphic balance across the counties de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) and the States of
West Virginia and Maryland;
(II) be composed of not fewer than 7, and
not more than 15, members elected by the
membership of the local coordinating entity;
(III) be selected to represent a balanced
group of diverse interests, including—
(aa) the forest industry;
(bb) environmental interests;
(cc) cultural heritage interests;
(dd) tourism interests; and
(ee) regional agency partners;
(IV) exercise all corporate powers of the
local coordinating entity;
(V) manage the activities and affairs of the
local coordinating entity; and
(VI) subject to any limitations in the arti-
cles and bylaws of the local coordinating en-
tity, this section, and other applicable Fed-
eral or State law, establish the policies of
the local coordinating entity.
(2) MARITIME WASHINGTON NATIONAL HERIT-
AGE AREA, WASHINGTON.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Maritime Washington National Heritage
Area in the State of Washington, to include
land in Whatcom, Skagit, Snohomish, San
Juan, Island, King, Pierce, Thurston, Mason,
Kitsap, Jefferson, Clallam, and Grays Harbor
Counties in the State that is at least par-
tially located within the area that is 1⁄4-mile
landward of the shoreline, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Maritime Wash-
ington National Heritage Area Proposed
Boundary’’, numbered 584/125,484, and dated
August, 2014.
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—The
Washington Trust for Historic Preservation
shall be the local coordinating entity for the
National Heritage Area designated by sub-
paragraph (A).
(3) MOUNTAINS TO SOUND GREENWAY NA-
TIONAL HERITAGE AREA, WASHINGTON.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Mountains to Sound Greenway National Her-
itage Area in the State of Washington, to
consist of land in King and Kittitas Counties
in the State, as generally depicted on the
map entitled ‘‘Mountains to Sound Green-
way National Heritage Area Proposed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1083
February 7, 2019
Boundary’’, numbered 584/125,483, and dated
August, 2014 (referred to in this paragraph as
the ‘‘map’’).
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—The
Mountains to Sound Greenway Trust shall be
the local coordinating entity for the Na-
tional Heritage Area designated by subpara-
graph (A).
(C) MAP.—The map shall be on file and
available for public inspection in the appro-
priate offices of—
(i) the National Park Service;
(ii) the Forest Service;
(iii) the Indian Tribes; and
(iv) the local coordinating entity.
(D) REFERENCES TO INDIAN TRIBE; TRIBAL.—
Any reference in this paragraph to the terms
‘‘Indian Tribe’’ and ‘‘Tribal’’ shall be consid-
ered, for purposes of the National Heritage
Area designated by subparagraph (A), to
refer to each of the Tribal governments of
the Snoqualmie, Yakama, Tulalip,
Muckleshoot, and Colville Indian Tribes.
(E) MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.—With re-
spect to the National Heritage Area des-
ignated by subparagraph (A)—
(i) the preparation of an interpretive plan
under subsection (c)(2)(C)(vii) shall also in-
clude plans for Tribal heritage;
(ii) the Secretary shall ensure that the
management plan developed under sub-
section (c) is consistent with the trust re-
sponsibilities of the Secretary to Indian
Tribes and Tribal treaty rights within the
National Heritage Area;
(iii) the interpretive plan and management
plan for the National Heritage Area shall be
developed in consultation with the Indian
Tribes;
(iv) nothing in this paragraph shall grant
or diminish any hunting, fishing, or gath-
ering treaty right of any Indian Tribe; and
(v) nothing in this paragraph affects the
authority of a State or an Indian Tribe to
manage fish and wildlife, including the regu-
lation of hunting and fishing within the Na-
tional Heritage Area.
(4) SACRAMENTO-SAN JOAQUIN DELTA NA-
TIONAL HERITAGE AREA, CALIFORNIA.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta National
Heritage Area in the State of California, to
consist of land in Contra Costa, Sacramento,
San Joaquin, Solano, and Yolo Counties in
the State, as generally depicted on the map
entitled ‘‘Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta Na-
tional Heritage Area Proposed Boundary’’,
numbered T27/105,030, and dated October 2012.
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—The
Delta Protection Commission established by
section 29735 of the California Public Re-
sources Code shall be the local coordinating
entity for the National Heritage Area des-
ignated by subparagraph (A).
(C) EFFECT.—This program shall not be in-
terpreted or implemented in a manner that
directly or indirectly has a negative effect
on the operations of the Central Valley
Project, the State Water Project, or any
water supply facilities within the Bay-Delta
watershed.
(5) SANTA CRUZ VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA, ARIZONA.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Santa Cruz Valley National Heritage Area in
the State of Arizona, to consist of land in
Pima and Santa Cruz Counties in the State,
as generally depicted on the map entitled
‘‘Santa Cruz Valley National Heritage
Area’’, numbered T09/80,000, and dated No-
vember 13, 2007.
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—Santa
Cruz Valley Heritage Alliance, Inc., a non-
profit organization established under the
laws of the State of Arizona, shall be the
local coordinating entity for the National
Heritage Area designated by subparagraph
(A).
(6) SUSQUEHANNA NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA,
PENNSYLVANIA.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There is established the
Susquehanna National Heritage Area in the
State of Pennsylvania, to consist of land in
Lancaster and York Counties in the State.
(B) LOCAL COORDINATING ENTITY.—The Sus-
quehanna Heritage Corporation, a nonprofit
organization established under the laws of
the State of Pennsylvania, shall be the local
coordinating entity for the National Herit-
age Area designated by subparagraph (A).
(b) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) AUTHORITIES.—For purposes of carrying
out the management plan for each of the Na-
tional Heritage Areas designated by sub-
section (a), the Secretary, acting through
the local coordinating entity, may use
amounts made available under subsection
(g)—
(A) to make grants to the State or a polit-
ical subdivision of the State, Indian Tribes,
nonprofit organizations, and other persons;
(B) to enter into cooperative agreements
with, or provide technical assistance to, the
State or a political subdivision of the State,
Indian Tribes, nonprofit organizations, and
other interested parties;
(C) to hire and compensate staff, which
shall include individuals with expertise in
natural, cultural, and historical resources
protection, and heritage programming;
(D) to obtain money or services from any
source including any money or services that
are provided under any other Federal law or
program;
(E) to contract for goods or services; and
(F) to undertake to be a catalyst for any
other activity that furthers the National
Heritage Area and is consistent with the ap-
proved management plan.
(2) DUTIES.—The local coordinating entity
for each of the National Heritage Areas des-
ignated by subsection (a) shall—
(A) in accordance with subsection (c), pre-
pare and submit a management plan for the
National Heritage Area to the Secretary;
(B) assist Federal agencies, the State or a
political subdivision of the State, Indian
Tribes, regional planning organizations, non-
profit organizations and other interested
parties in carrying out the approved manage-
ment plan by—
(i) carrying out programs and projects that
recognize, protect, and enhance important
resource values in the National Heritage
Area;
(ii) establishing and maintaining interpre-
tive exhibits and programs in the National
Heritage Area;
(iii) developing recreational and edu-
cational opportunities in the National Herit-
age Area;
(iv) increasing public awareness of, and ap-
preciation for, natural, historical, scenic,
and cultural resources of the National Herit-
age Area;
(v) protecting and restoring historic sites
and buildings in the National Heritage Area
that are consistent with National Heritage
Area themes;
(vi) ensuring that clear, consistent, and ap-
propriate signs identifying points of public
access and sites of interest are posted
throughout the National Heritage Area; and
(vii) promoting a wide range of partner-
ships among the Federal Government, State,
Tribal, and local governments, organiza-
tions, and individuals to further the Na-
tional Heritage Area;
(C) consider the interests of diverse units
of government, businesses, organizations,
and individuals in the National Heritage
Area in the preparation and implementation
of the management plan;
(D) conduct meetings open to the public at
least semiannually regarding the develop-
ment and implementation of the manage-
ment plan;
(E) for any year that Federal funds have
been received under this subsection—
(i) submit to the Secretary an annual re-
port that describes the activities, expenses,
and income of the local coordinating entity
(including grants to any other entities dur-
ing the year that the report is made);
(ii) make available to the Secretary for
audit all records relating to the expenditure
of the funds and any matching funds; and
(iii) require, with respect to all agreements
authorizing expenditure of Federal funds by
other organizations, that the organizations
receiving the funds make available to the
Secretary for audit all records concerning
the expenditure of the funds; and
(F) encourage by appropriate means eco-
nomic viability that is consistent with the
National Heritage Area.
(3) PROHIBITION ON THE ACQUISITION OF REAL
PROPERTY.—The local coordinating entity
shall not use Federal funds made available
under subsection (g) to acquire real property
or any interest in real property.
(c) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
local coordinating entity for each of the Na-
tional Heritage Areas designated by sub-
section (a) shall submit to the Secretary for
approval a proposed management plan for
the National Heritage Area.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The management plan
shall—
(A) incorporate an integrated and coopera-
tive approach for the protection, enhance-
ment, and interpretation of the natural, cul-
tural, historic, scenic, and recreational re-
sources of the National Heritage Area;
(B) take into consideration Federal, State,
local, and Tribal plans and treaty rights;
(C) include—
(i) an inventory of—
(I) the resources located in the National
Heritage Area; and
(II) any other property in the National
Heritage Area that—
(aa) is related to the themes of the Na-
tional Heritage Area; and
(bb) should be preserved, restored, man-
aged, or maintained because of the signifi-
cance of the property;
(ii) comprehensive policies, strategies and
recommendations for conservation, funding,
management, and development of the Na-
tional Heritage Area;
(iii) a description of actions that the Fed-
eral Government, State, Tribal, and local
governments, private organizations, and in-
dividuals have agreed to take to protect the
natural, historical, cultural, scenic, and rec-
reational resources of the National Heritage
Area;
(iv) a program of implementation for the
management plan by the local coordinating
entity that includes a description of—
(I) actions to facilitate ongoing collabora-
tion among partners to promote plans for re-
source protection, restoration, and construc-
tion; and
(II) specific commitments for implementa-
tion that have been made by the local co-
ordinating entity or any government, orga-
nization, or individual for the first 5 years of
operation;
(v) the identification of sources of funding
for carrying out the management plan;
(vi) analysis and recommendations for
means by which Federal, State, local, and
Tribal programs, including the role of the
National Park Service in the National Herit-
age Area, may best be coordinated to carry
out this subsection; and
(vii) an interpretive plan for the National
Heritage Area; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1084 February 7, 2019
(D) recommend policies and strategies for
resource management that consider and de-
tail the application of appropriate land and
water management techniques, including the
development of intergovernmental and inter-
agency cooperative agreements to protect
the natural, historical, cultural, educational,
scenic, and recreational resources of the Na-
tional Heritage Area.
(3) DEADLINE.—If a proposed management
plan is not submitted to the Secretary by
the date that is 3 years after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the local coordinating
entity shall be ineligible to receive addi-
tional funding under this section until the
date on which the Secretary receives and ap-
proves the management plan.
(4) APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF MANAGE-
MENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of receipt of the management
plan under paragraph (1), the Secretary, in
consultation with State and Tribal govern-
ments, shall approve or disapprove the man-
agement plan.
(B) CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL.—In deter-
mining whether to approve the management
plan, the Secretary shall consider whether—
(i) the local coordinating entity is rep-
resentative of the diverse interests of the
National Heritage Area, including Federal,
State, Tribal, and local governments, nat-
ural and historic resource protection organi-
zations, educational institutions, businesses,
and recreational organizations;
(ii) the local coordinating entity has af-
forded adequate opportunity, including pub-
lic hearings, for public and governmental in-
volvement in the preparation of the manage-
ment plan; and
(iii) the resource protection and interpre-
tation strategies contained in the manage-
ment plan, if implemented, would adequately
protect the natural, historical, and cultural
resources of the National Heritage Area.
(C) ACTION FOLLOWING DISAPPROVAL.—If the
Secretary disapproves the management plan
under subparagraph (A), the Secretary
shall—
(i) advise the local coordinating entity in
writing of the reasons for the disapproval;
(ii) make recommendations for revisions to
the management plan; and
(iii) not later than 180 days after the re-
ceipt of any proposed revision of the manage-
ment plan from the local coordinating enti-
ty, approve or disapprove the proposed revi-
sion.
(D) AMENDMENTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ap-
prove or disapprove each amendment to the
management plan that the Secretary deter-
mines make a substantial change to the
management plan.
(ii) USE OF FUNDS.—The local coordinating
entity shall not use Federal funds authorized
by this subsection to carry out any amend-
ments to the management plan until the
Secretary has approved the amendments.
(d) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER FEDERAL AGEN-
CIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section af-
fects the authority of a Federal agency to
provide technical or financial assistance
under any other law.
(2) CONSULTATION AND COORDINATION.—The
head of any Federal agency planning to con-
duct activities that may have an impact on
a National Heritage Area designated by sub-
section (a) is encouraged to consult and co-
ordinate the activities with the Secretary
and the local coordinating entity to the
maximum extent practicable.
(3) OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.—Nothing in
this section—
(A) modifies, alters, or amends any law or
regulation authorizing a Federal agency to
manage Federal land under the jurisdiction
of the Federal agency;
(B) limits the discretion of a Federal land
manager to implement an approved land use
plan within the boundaries of a National
Heritage Area designated by subsection (a);
or
(C) modifies, alters, or amends any author-
ized use of Federal land under the jurisdic-
tion of a Federal agency.
(e) PRIVATE PROPERTY AND REGULATORY
PROTECTIONS.—Nothing in this section—
(1) abridges the rights of any property
owner (whether public or private), including
the right to refrain from participating in any
plan, project, program, or activity conducted
within a National Heritage Area designated
by subsection (a);
(2) requires any property owner—
(A) to permit public access (including ac-
cess by Federal, State, or local agencies) to
the property of the property owner; or
(B) to modify public access or use of prop-
erty of the property owner under any other
Federal, State, or local law;
(3) alters any duly adopted land use regula-
tion, approved land use plan, or other regu-
latory authority of any Federal, State, Trib-
al, or local agency;
(4) conveys any land use or other regu-
latory authority to the local coordinating
entity;
(5) authorizes or implies the reservation or
appropriation of water or water rights;
(6) enlarges or diminishes the treaty rights
of any Indian Tribe within the National Her-
itage Area;
(7) diminishes—
(A) the authority of the State to manage
fish and wildlife, including the regulation of
fishing and hunting within a National Herit-
age Area designated by subsection (a); or
(B) the authority of Indian Tribes to regu-
late members of Indian Tribes with respect
to fishing, hunting, and gathering in the ex-
ercise of treaty rights; or
(8) creates any liability, or affects any li-
ability under any other law, of any private
property owner with respect to any person
injured on the private property.
(f) EVALUATION AND REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—For each of the National
Heritage Areas designated by subsection (a),
not later than 3 years before the date on
which authority for Federal funding termi-
nates for each National Heritage Area, the
Secretary shall—
(A) conduct an evaluation of the accom-
plishments of the National Heritage Area;
and
(B) prepare a report in accordance with
paragraph (3).
(2) EVALUATION.—An evaluation conducted
under paragraph (1)(A) shall—
(A) assess the progress of the local man-
agement entity with respect to—
(i) accomplishing the purposes of the au-
thorizing legislation for the National Herit-
age Area; and
(ii) achieving the goals and objectives of
the approved management plan for the Na-
tional Heritage Area;
(B) analyze the investments of the Federal
Government, State, Tribal, and local govern-
ments, and private entities in each National
Heritage Area to determine the impact of
the investments; and
(C) review the management structure,
partnership relationships, and funding of the
National Heritage Area for purposes of iden-
tifying the critical components for sustain-
ability of the National Heritage Area.
(3) REPORT.—Based on the evaluation con-
ducted under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary
shall submit to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate and the
Committee on Natural Resources of the
House of Representatives a report that in-
cludes recommendations for the future role
of the National Park Service, if any, with re-
spect to the National Heritage Area.
(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to be
appropriated for each National Heritage
Area designated by subsection (a) to carry
out the purposes of this section $10,000,000, of
which not more than $1,000,000 may be made
available in any fiscal year.
(2) AVAILABILITY.—Amounts made avail-
able under paragraph (1) shall remain avail-
able until expended.
(3) COST-SHARING REQUIREMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Federal share of the
total cost of any activity under this section
shall be not more than 50 percent.
(B) FORM.—The non-Federal contribution
of the total cost of any activity under this
section may be in the form of in-kind con-
tributions of goods or services fairly valued.
(4) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The au-
thority of the Secretary to provide assist-
ance under this section terminates on the
date that is 15 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
SEC. 6002. ADJUSTMENT OF BOUNDARIES OF LIN-
COLN NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.
(a) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—Section
443(b)(1) of the Consolidated Natural Re-
sources Act of 2008 (Public Law 110–229; 122
Stat. 819) is amended—
(1) by inserting ‘‘, Livingston,’’ after ‘‘La-
Salle’’; and
(2) by inserting ‘‘, the city of Jonesboro in
Union County, and the city of Freeport in
Stephenson County’’ after ‘‘Woodford coun-
ties’’.
(b) MAP.—The Secretary shall update the
map referred to in section 443(b)(2) of the
Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008
to reflect the boundary adjustment made by
the amendments in subsection (a).
SEC. 6003. FINGER LAKES NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA STUDY.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) HERITAGE AREA.—The term ‘‘Heritage
Area’’ means the Finger Lakes National Her-
itage Area.
(2) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of New York.
(3) STUDY AREA.—The term ‘‘study area’’
means—
(A) the counties in the State of Cayuga,
Chemung, Cortland, Livingston, Monroe, On-
ondaga, Ontario, Schuyler, Seneca, Steuben,
Tioga, Tompkins, Wayne, and Yates; and
(B) any other areas in the State that—
(i) have heritage aspects that are similar
to the areas described in subparagraph (A);
and
(ii) are adjacent to, or in the vicinity of,
those areas.
(b) STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in con-
sultation with State and local historic pres-
ervation officers, State and local historical
societies, State and local tourism offices,
and other appropriate organizations and gov-
ernmental agencies, shall conduct a study to
assess the suitability and feasibility of desig-
nating the study area as a National Heritage
Area, to be known as the ‘‘Finger Lakes Na-
tional Heritage Area’’.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The study shall in-
clude analysis, documentation, and deter-
minations on whether the study area—
(A) has an assemblage of natural, historic,
and cultural resources that—
(i) represent distinctive aspects of the her-
itage of the United States;
(ii) are worthy of recognition, conserva-
tion, interpretation, and continuing use; and
(iii) would be best managed—
(I) through partnerships among public and
private entities; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1085
February 7, 2019
(II) by linking diverse and sometimes non-
contiguous resources and active commu-
nities;
(B) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs,
and folklife that are a valuable part of the
story of the United States;
(C) provides outstanding opportunities—
(i) to conserve natural, historic, cultural,
or scenic features; and
(ii) for recreation and education;
(D) contains resources that—
(i) are important to any identified themes
of the study area; and
(ii) retain a degree of integrity capable of
supporting interpretation;
(E) includes residents, business interests,
nonprofit organizations, and State and local
governments that—
(i) are involved in the planning of the Her-
itage Area;
(ii) have developed a conceptual financial
plan that outlines the roles of all partici-
pants in the Heritage Area, including the
Federal Government; and
(iii) have demonstrated support for the des-
ignation of the Heritage Area;
(F) has a potential management entity to
work in partnership with the individuals and
entities described in subparagraph (E) to de-
velop the Heritage Area while encouraging
State and local economic activity; and
(G) has a conceptual boundary map that is
supported by the public.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 3 years after
the date on which funds are first made avail-
able to carry out this section, the Secretary
shall submit to the Committee on Natural
Resources of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate a report that de-
scribes—
(1) the findings of the study under sub-
section (b); and
(2) any conclusions and recommendations
of the Secretary.
SEC. 6004. NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA AMEND-
MENTS.
(a) RIVERS OF STEEL NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA.—Section 409(a) of the Omnibus Parks
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996
(Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4256; 129 Stat.
2551) is amended in the second sentence, by
striking ‘‘$17,000,000’’ and inserting
‘‘$20,000,000’’.
(b) ESSEX NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.—Sec-
tion 508(a) of the Omnibus Parks and Public
Lands Management Act of 1996 (Public Law
104–333; 110 Stat. 4260; 129 Stat. 2551) is
amended in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘$17,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$20,000,000’’.
(c) OHIO & ERIE NATIONAL HERITAGE
CANALWAY.—Section 810(a) of the Omnibus
Parks and Public Lands Management Act of
1996 (Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4275; 122
Stat. 826) is amended by striking the second
sentence and inserting the following: ‘‘Not
more than a total of $20,000,000 may be appro-
priated for the canalway under this title.’’.
(d) BLUE RIDGE NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA.—The Blue Ridge National Heritage
Area Act of 2003 (Public Law 108–108; 117
Stat. 1274; 131 Stat. 461; 132 Stat. 661) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (i)(1), by striking
‘‘$12,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$14,000,000’’; and
(2) by striking subsection (j) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(j) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The au-
thority of the Secretary to provide assist-
ance under this section terminates on Sep-
tember 30, 2021.’’.
(e) MOTORCITIES NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA.—Section 110(a) of the Automobile Na-
tional Heritage Area Act (Public Law 105–
355; 112 Stat. 3252) is amended, in the second
sentence, by striking ‘‘$10,000,000’’ and in-
serting ‘‘$12,000,000’’.
(f) WHEELING NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.—
Subsection (h)(1) of the Wheeling National
Heritage Area Act of 2000 (Public Law 106–
291; 114 Stat. 967; 128 Stat. 2421; 129 Stat. 2550)
is amended by striking ‘‘$13,000,000’’ and in-
serting ‘‘$15,000,000’’.
(g) TENNESSEE CIVIL WAR HERITAGE
AREA.—Section 208 of the Omnibus Parks
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996
(Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4248; 127 Stat.
420; 128 Stat. 314; 129 Stat. 2551; 132 Stat. 661)
is amended by striking ‘‘after’’ and all that
follows through the period at the end and in-
serting the following: ‘‘after September 30,
2021.’’.
(h) AUGUSTA CANAL NATIONAL HERITAGE
AREA.—Section 310 of the Omnibus Parks
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996
(Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4252; 127 Stat.
420; 128 Stat. 314; 129 Stat. 2551; 132 Stat. 661)
is amended by striking ‘‘2019’’ and inserting
‘‘2021’’.
(i) SOUTH CAROLINA NATIONAL HERITAGE
CORRIDOR.—Section 607 of the Omnibus Parks
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996
(Public Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4264; 127 Stat.
420; 128 Stat. 314; 129 Stat. 2551; 132 Stat. 661)
is amended by striking ‘‘2019’’ and inserting
‘‘2021’’.
(j) OIL REGION NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.—
The Oil Region National Heritage Area Act
(Public Law 108–447; 118 Stat. 3368) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘Oil Heritage Region, Inc.’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘Oil Re-
gion Alliance of Business, Industry and
Tourism’’.
(k) HUDSON RIVER VALLEY NATIONAL HERIT-
AGE AREA REDESIGNATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Hudson River Valley
National Heritage Area Act of 1996 (Public
Law 104–333; 110 Stat. 4275) is amended by
striking ‘‘Hudson River Valley National Her-
itage Area’’ each place it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘Maurice D. Hinchey Hudson River Val-
ley National Heritage Area’’.
(2) REFERENCE IN LAW.—Any reference in a
law, map, regulation, document, paper, or
other record of the United States to the Her-
itage Area referred to in paragraph (1) shall
be deemed to be a reference to the ‘‘Maurice
D. Hinchey Hudson River Valley National
Heritage Area’’.
TITLE VII—WILDLIFE HABITAT AND
CONSERVATION
SEC. 7001. WILDLIFE HABITAT AND CONSERVA-
TION.
(a) PARTNERS FOR FISH AND WILDLIFE PRO-
GRAM REAUTHORIZATION.—Section 5 of the
Partners for Fish and Wildlife Act (16 U.S.C.
3774) is amended by striking ‘‘2006 through
2011’’ and inserting ‘‘2019 through 2023’’.
(b) FISH AND WILDLIFE COORDINATION.—
(1) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this sub-
section is to protect water, oceans, coasts,
and wildlife from invasive species.
(2) AMENDMENTS TO FISH AND WILDLIFE CO-
ORDINATION ACT.—
(A) SHORT TITLE; AUTHORIZATION.—The first
section of the Fish and Wildlife Coordination
Act (16 U.S.C. 661) is amended by striking
‘‘For the purpose’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; AUTHORIZATION.
‘‘(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited
as the ‘Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act’.
‘‘(b) AUTHORIZATION.—For the purpose’’.
(B) PROTECTION OF WATER, OCEANS, COASTS,
AND WILDLIFE FROM INVASIVE SPECIES.—The
Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C.
661 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘SEC. 10. PROTECTION OF WATER, OCEANS,
COASTS, AND WILDLIFE FROM
INVASIVE SPECIES.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) CONTROL.—The term ‘control’, with re-
spect to an invasive species, means the eradi-
cation, suppression, or reduction of the popu-
lation of the invasive species within the area
in which the invasive species is present.
‘‘(2) ECOSYSTEM.—The term ‘ecosystem’
means the complex of a community of orga-
nisms and the environment of the organisms.
‘‘(3) ELIGIBLE STATE.—The term ‘eligible
State’ means any of—
‘‘(A) a State;
‘‘(B) the District of Columbia;
‘‘(C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
‘‘(D) Guam;
‘‘(E) American Samoa;
‘‘(F) the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands; and
‘‘(G) the United States Virgin Islands.
‘‘(4) INVASIVE SPECIES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘invasive spe-
cies’ means an alien species, the introduc-
tion of which causes, or is likely to cause,
economic or environmental harm or harm to
human health.
‘‘(B) ASSOCIATED DEFINITION.—For purposes
of subparagraph (A), the term ‘alien species’,
with respect to a particular ecosystem,
means any species (including the seeds, eggs,
spores, or other biological material of the
species that are capable of propagating the
species) that is not native to the affected
ecosystem.
‘‘(5) MANAGE; MANAGEMENT.—The terms
‘manage’ and ‘management’, with respect to
an invasive species, mean the active imple-
mentation of any activity—
‘‘(A) to reduce or stop the spread of the
invasive species; and
‘‘(B) to inhibit further infestations of the
invasive species, the spread of the invasive
species, or harm caused by the invasive spe-
cies, including investigations regarding
methods for early detection and rapid re-
sponse, prevention, control, or management
of the invasive species.
‘‘(6) PREVENT.—The term ‘prevent’, with
respect to an invasive species, means—
‘‘(A) to hinder the introduction of the
invasive species onto land or water; or
‘‘(B) to impede the spread of the invasive
species within land or water by inspecting,
intercepting, or confiscating invasive species
threats prior to the establishment of the
invasive species onto land or water of an eli-
gible State.
‘‘(7) SECRETARY CONCERNED.—The term
‘Secretary concerned’ means—
‘‘(A) the Secretary of the Army, with re-
spect to Federal land administered by the
Corps of Engineers;
‘‘(B) the Secretary of the Interior, with re-
spect to Federal land administered by the
Secretary of the Interior through—
‘‘(i) the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service;
‘‘(ii) the Bureau of Indian Affairs;
‘‘(iii) the Bureau of Land Management;
‘‘(iv) the Bureau of Reclamation; or
‘‘(v) the National Park Service;
‘‘(C) the Secretary of Agriculture, with re-
spect to Federal land administered by the
Secretary of Agriculture through the Forest
Service; and
‘‘(D) the head or a representative of any
other Federal agency the duties of whom re-
quire planning relating to, and the treat-
ment of, invasive species for the purpose of
protecting water and wildlife on land and
coasts and in oceans and water.
‘‘(8) SPECIES.—The term ‘species’ means a
group of organisms, all of which—
‘‘(A) have a high degree of genetic simi-
larity;
‘‘(B) are morphologically distinct;
‘‘(C) generally—
‘‘(i) interbreed at maturity only among
themselves; and
‘‘(ii) produce fertile offspring; and
‘‘(D) show persistent differences from
members of allied groups of organisms.
‘‘(b) CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT.—Each
Secretary concerned shall plan and carry out
activities on land directly managed by the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1086 February 7, 2019
Secretary concerned to protect water and
wildlife by controlling and managing
invasive species—
‘‘(1) to inhibit or reduce the populations of
invasive species; and
‘‘(2) to effectuate restoration or reclama-
tion efforts.
‘‘(c) STRATEGIC PLAN.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each Secretary con-
cerned shall develop a strategic plan for the
implementation of the invasive species pro-
gram to achieve, to the maximum extent
practicable, a substantive annual net reduc-
tion of invasive species populations or in-
fested acreage on land or water managed by
the Secretary concerned.
‘‘(2) COORDINATION.—Each strategic plan
under paragraph (1) shall be developed—
‘‘(A) in coordination with affected—
‘‘(i) eligible States; and
‘‘(ii) political subdivisions of eligible
States;
‘‘(B) in consultation with federally recog-
nized Indian tribes; and
‘‘(C) in accordance with the priorities es-
tablished by 1 or more Governors of the eligi-
ble States in which an ecosystem affected by
an invasive species is located.
‘‘(3) FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION.—In de-
veloping a strategic plan under this sub-
section, the Secretary concerned shall take
into consideration the economic and ecologi-
cal costs of action or inaction, as applicable.
‘‘(d) COST-EFFECTIVE METHODS.—In select-
ing a method to be used to control or man-
age an invasive species as part of a specific
control or management project conducted as
part of a strategic plan developed under sub-
section (c), the Secretary concerned shall
prioritize the use of methods that—
‘‘(1) effectively control and manage
invasive species, as determined by the Sec-
retary concerned, based on sound scientific
data;
‘‘(2) minimize environmental impacts; and
‘‘(3) control and manage invasive species in
the most cost-effective manner.
‘‘(e) COMPARATIVE ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT.—
To achieve compliance with subsection (d),
the Secretary concerned shall require a com-
parative economic assessment of invasive
species control and management methods to
be conducted.
‘‘(f) EXPEDITED ACTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries con-
cerned shall use all tools and flexibilities
available (as of the date of enactment of this
section) to expedite the projects and activi-
ties described in paragraph (2).
‘‘(2) DESCRIPTION OF PROJECTS AND ACTIVI-
TIES.—A project or activity referred to in
paragraph (1) is a project or activity—
‘‘(A) to protect water or wildlife from an
invasive species that, as determined by the
Secretary concerned is, or will be, carried
out on land or water that is—
‘‘(i) directly managed by the Secretary
concerned; and
‘‘(ii) located in an area that is—
‘‘(I) at high risk for the introduction, es-
tablishment, or spread of invasive species;
and
‘‘(II) determined by the Secretary con-
cerned to require immediate action to ad-
dress the risk identified in subclause (I); and
‘‘(B) carried out in accordance with appli-
cable agency procedures, including any ap-
plicable—
‘‘(i) land or resource management plan; or
‘‘(ii) land use plan.
‘‘(g) ALLOCATION OF FUNDING.—Of the
amount appropriated or otherwise made
available to each Secretary concerned for a
fiscal year for programs that address or in-
clude protection of land or water from an
invasive species, the Secretary concerned
shall use not less than 75 percent for on-the-
ground control and management of invasive
species, which may include—
‘‘(1) the purchase of necessary products,
equipment, or services to conduct that con-
trol and management;
‘‘(2) the use of integrated pest management
options, including options that use pesticides
authorized for sale, distribution, or use
under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide,
and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136 et seq.);
‘‘(3) the use of biological control agents
that are proven to be effective to reduce
invasive species populations;
‘‘(4) the use of revegetation or cultural res-
toration methods designed to improve the di-
versity and richness of ecosystems;
‘‘(5) the use of monitoring and detection
activities for invasive species, including
equipment, detection dogs, and mechanical
devices;
‘‘(6) the use of appropriate methods to re-
move invasive species from a vehicle or ves-
sel capable of conveyance; or
‘‘(7) the use of other effective mechanical
or manual control methods.
‘‘(h) INVESTIGATIONS, OUTREACH, AND PUB-
LIC AWARENESS.—Of the amount appro-
priated or otherwise made available to each
Secretary concerned for a fiscal year for pro-
grams that address or include protection of
land or water from an invasive species, the
Secretary concerned may use not more than
15 percent for investigations, development
activities, and outreach and public aware-
ness efforts to address invasive species con-
trol and management needs.
‘‘(i) ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.—Of the
amount appropriated or otherwise made
available to each Secretary concerned for a
fiscal year for programs that address or in-
clude protection of land or water from an
invasive species, not more than 10 percent
may be used for administrative costs in-
curred to carry out those programs, includ-
ing costs relating to oversight and manage-
ment of the programs, recordkeeping, and
implementation of the strategic plan devel-
oped under subsection (c).
‘‘(j) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—Not later
than 60 days after the end of the second fis-
cal year beginning after the date of enact-
ment of this section, each Secretary con-
cerned shall submit to Congress a report—
‘‘(1) describing the use by the Secretary
concerned during the 2 preceding fiscal years
of funds for programs that address or include
invasive species management; and
‘‘(2) specifying the percentage of funds ex-
pended for each of the purposes specified in
subsections (g), (h), and (i).
‘‘(k) RELATION TO OTHER AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(1) OTHER INVASIVE SPECIES CONTROL, PRE-
VENTION, AND MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES.—
Nothing in this section precludes the Sec-
retary concerned from pursuing or sup-
porting, pursuant to any other provision of
law, any activity regarding the control, pre-
vention, or management of an invasive spe-
cies, including investigations to improve the
control, prevention, or management of the
invasive species.
‘‘(2) PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS.—Noth-
ing in this section authorizes the Secretary
concerned to suspend any water delivery or
diversion, or otherwise to prevent the oper-
ation of a public water supply system, as a
measure to control, manage, or prevent the
introduction or spread of an invasive species.
‘‘(l) USE OF PARTNERSHIPS.—Subject to the
subsections (m) and (n), the Secretary con-
cerned may enter into any contract or coop-
erative agreement with another Federal
agency, an eligible State, a federally recog-
nized Indian tribe, a political subdivision of
an eligible State, or a private individual or
entity to assist with the control and man-
agement of an invasive species.
‘‘(m) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—As a condition of a con-
tract or cooperative agreement under sub-
section (l), the Secretary concerned and the
applicable Federal agency, eligible State, po-
litical subdivision of an eligible State, or
private individual or entity shall enter into
a memorandum of understanding that de-
scribes—
‘‘(A) the nature of the partnership between
the parties to the memorandum of under-
standing; and
‘‘(B) the control and management activi-
ties to be conducted under the contract or
cooperative agreement.
‘‘(2) CONTENTS.—A memorandum of under-
standing under this subsection shall contain,
at a minimum, the following:
‘‘(A) A prioritized listing of each invasive
species to be controlled or managed.
‘‘(B) An assessment of the total acres of
land or area of water infested by the invasive
species.
‘‘(C) An estimate of the expected total
acres of land or area of water infested by the
invasive species after control and manage-
ment of the invasive species is attempted.
‘‘(D) A description of each specific, inte-
grated pest management option to be used,
including a comparative economic assess-
ment to determine the least-costly method.
‘‘(E) Any map, boundary, or Global Posi-
tioning System coordinates needed to clear-
ly identify the area in which each control or
management activity is proposed to be con-
ducted.
‘‘(F) A written assurance that each partner
will comply with section 15 of the Federal
Noxious Weed Act of 1974 (7 U.S.C. 2814).
‘‘(3) COORDINATION.—If a partner to a con-
tract or cooperative agreement under sub-
section (l) is an eligible State, political sub-
division of an eligible State, or private indi-
vidual or entity, the memorandum of under-
standing under this subsection shall include
a description of—
‘‘(A) the means by which each applicable
control or management effort will be coordi-
nated; and
‘‘(B) the expected outcomes of managing
and controlling the invasive species.
‘‘(4) PUBLIC OUTREACH AND AWARENESS EF-
FORTS.—If a contract or cooperative agree-
ment under subsection (l) involves any out-
reach or public awareness effort, the memo-
randum of understanding under this sub-
section shall include a list of goals and ob-
jectives for each outreach or public aware-
ness effort that have been determined to be
efficient to inform national, regional, State,
Tribal, or local audiences regarding invasive
species control and management.
‘‘(n) INVESTIGATIONS.—The purpose of any
invasive species-related investigation carried
out under a contract or cooperative agree-
ment under subsection (l) shall be—
‘‘(1) to develop solutions and specific rec-
ommendations for control and management
of invasive species; and
‘‘(2) specifically to provide faster imple-
mentation of control and management meth-
ods.
‘‘(o) COORDINATION WITH AFFECTED LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS.—Each project and activity
carried out pursuant to this section shall be
coordinated with affected local governments
in a manner that is consistent with section
202(c)(9) of the Federal Land Policy and Man-
agement Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712(c)(9)).’’.
(c) WILDLIFE CONSERVATION.—
(1) REAUTHORIZATIONS.—
(A) REAUTHORIZATION OF AFRICAN ELEPHANT
CONSERVATION ACT.—Section 2306(a) of the Af-
rican Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C.
4245(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘2007 through
2012’’ and inserting ‘‘2019 through 2023’’.
(B) REAUTHORIZATION OF ASIAN ELEPHANT
CONSERVATION ACT OF 1997.—Section 8(a) of
the Asian Elephant Conservation Act of 1997
(16 U.S.C. 4266(a)) is amended by striking
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1087
February 7, 2019
‘‘2007 through 2012’’ and inserting ‘‘2019
through 2023’’.
(C) REAUTHORIZATION OF RHINOCEROS AND
TIGER CONSERVATION ACT OF 1994.—Section
10(a) of the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conserva-
tion Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 5306(a)) is amended
by striking ‘‘2007 through 2012’’ and inserting
‘‘2019 through 2023’’.
(2) AMENDMENTS TO GREAT APE CONSERVA-
TION ACT OF 2000.—
(A) PANEL.—Section 4(i) of the Great Ape
Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6303(i)) is
amended—
(i) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) CONVENTION.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of the Natural
Resources Management Act, and every 5
years thereafter, the Secretary may convene
a panel of experts on great apes to identify
the greatest needs and priorities for the con-
servation of great apes.’’;
(ii) by redesignating paragraph (2) as para-
graph (5); and
(iii) by inserting after paragraph (1) the
following:
‘‘(2) COMPOSITION.—The Secretary shall en-
sure that the panel referred to in paragraph
(1) includes, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, 1 or more representatives—
‘‘(A) from each country that comprises the
natural range of great apes; and
‘‘(B) with expertise in great ape conserva-
tion.
‘‘(3) CONSERVATION PLANS.—In identifying
the conservation needs and priorities under
paragraph (1), the panel referred to in that
paragraph shall consider any relevant great
ape conservation plan or strategy, including
scientific research and findings relating to—
‘‘(A) the conservation needs and priorities
of great apes;
‘‘(B) any regional or species-specific action
plan or strategy;
‘‘(C) any applicable strategy developed or
initiated by the Secretary; and
‘‘(D) any other applicable conservation
plan or strategy.
‘‘(4) FUNDS.—Subject to the availability of
appropriations, the Secretary may use
amounts available to the Secretary to pay
for the costs of convening and facilitating
any meeting of the panel referred to in para-
graph (1).’’.
(B) MULTIYEAR GRANTS.—Section 4 of the
Great Ape Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C.
6303) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(j) MULTIYEAR GRANTS.—
‘‘(1) AUTHORIZATION.—The Secretary may
award to a person who is otherwise eligible
for a grant under this section a multiyear
grant to carry out a project that the person
demonstrates is an effective, long-term con-
servation strategy for great apes and the
habitat of great apes.
‘‘(2) EFFECT OF SUBSECTION.—Nothing in
this subsection precludes the Secretary from
awarding a grant on an annual basis.’’.
(C) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—Section
5(b)(2) of the Great Ape Conservation Act of
2000 (16 U.S.C. 6304(b)(2)) is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘$100,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$150,000’’.
(D) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Section 6 of the Great Ape Conservation Act
of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6305) is amended by striking
‘‘2006 through 2010’’ and inserting ‘‘2019
through 2023’’.
(3) AMENDMENTS TO MARINE TURTLE CON-
SERVATION ACT OF 2004.—
(A) PURPOSE.—Section 2 of the Marine Tur-
tle Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6601) is
amended by striking subsection (b) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this Act is
to assist in the conservation of marine tur-
tles, freshwater turtles, and tortoises and
the habitats of marine turtles, freshwater
turtles, and tortoises in foreign countries
and territories of the United States by sup-
porting and providing financial resources for
projects—
‘‘(1) to conserve marine turtle, freshwater
turtle, and tortoise habitats under the juris-
diction of United States Fish and Wildlife
Service programs;
‘‘(2) to conserve marine turtles, freshwater
turtles, and tortoises in those habitats; and
‘‘(3) to address other threats to the sur-
vival of marine turtles, freshwater turtles,
and tortoises, including habitat loss, poach-
ing of turtles or their eggs, and wildlife traf-
ficking.’’.
(B) DEFINITIONS.—Section 3 of the Marine
Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C.
6602) is amended—
(i) in paragraph (2)—
(I) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘nesting habitats of marine
turtles in foreign countries and of marine
turtles in those habitats’’ and inserting ‘‘ma-
rine turtles, freshwater turtles, and tor-
toises, and the habitats of marine turtles,
freshwater turtles, and tortoises, in foreign
countries and territories of the United
States under the jurisdiction of United
States Fish and Wildlife Service programs’’;
(II) in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), by
striking ‘‘nesting’’ each place it appears;
(III) in subparagraph (D)—
(aa) in the matter preceding clause (i), by
striking ‘‘countries to—’’ and inserting
‘‘countries—’’;
(bb) in clause (i)—
(AA) by inserting ‘‘to’’ before ‘‘protect’’;
and
(BB) by striking ‘‘nesting’’ each place it
appears; and
(cc) in clause (ii), by inserting ‘‘to’’ before
‘‘prevent’’;
(IV) in subparagraph (E)(i), by striking
‘‘turtles on nesting habitat’’ and inserting
‘‘turtles, freshwater turtles, and tortoises’’;
(V) in subparagraph (F), by striking ‘‘tur-
tles over habitat used by marine turtles for
nesting’’ and inserting ‘‘turtles, freshwater
turtles, and tortoises over habitats used by
marine turtles, freshwater turtles, and tor-
toises’’; and
(VI) in subparagraph (H), by striking
‘‘nesting’’ each place it appears;
(ii) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), (5),
and (6) as paragraphs (4), (6), (7), and (8), re-
spectively;
(iii) by inserting before paragraph (4) (as so
redesignated) the following:
‘‘(3) FRESHWATER TURTLE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘freshwater
turtle’ means any member of the family
Carettochelyidae, Chelidae, Chelydridae,
Dermatemydidae, Emydidae, Geoemydidae,
Kinosternidae, Pelomedusidae,
Platysternidae, Podocnemididae, or
Trionychidae.
‘‘(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘freshwater
turtle’ includes—
‘‘(i) any part, product, egg, or offspring of
a turtle described in subparagraph (A); and
‘‘(ii) a carcass of such a turtle.’’;
(iv) by inserting after paragraph (4) (as so
redesignated) the following:
‘‘(5) HABITAT.—The term ‘habitat’ means
any marine turtle, freshwater turtle, or tor-
toise habitat (including a nesting habitat)
that is under the jurisdiction of United
States Fish and Wildlife Service programs.’’;
and
(v) by inserting after paragraph (8) (as so
redesignated) the following:
‘‘(9) TERRITORY OF THE UNITED STATES.—
The term ‘territory of the United States’
means—
‘‘(A) American Samoa;
‘‘(B) the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands;
‘‘(C) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
‘‘(D) Guam;
‘‘(E) the United States Virgin Islands; and
‘‘(F) any other territory or possession of
the United States.
‘‘(10) TORTOISE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘tortoise’
means any member of the family
Testudinidae.
‘‘(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘tortoise’ in-
cludes—
‘‘(i) any part, product, egg, or offspring of
a tortoise described in subparagraph (A); and
‘‘(ii) a carcass of such a tortoise.’’.
(C) CONSERVATION ASSISTANCE.—Section 4
of the Marine Turtle Conservation Act of
2004 (16 U.S.C. 6603) is amended—
(i) in the section heading, by striking ‘‘MA-
RINE TURTLE’’;
(ii) in subsection (a), by inserting ‘‘, fresh-
water turtles, or tortoises’’ after ‘‘marine
turtles’’;
(iii) in subsection (b)(1)—
(I) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by inserting ‘‘, freshwater turtles, or
tortoises’’ after ‘‘marine turtles’’;
(II) by striking subparagraph (A) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(A) any wildlife management authority of
a foreign country or territory of the United
States that has within its boundaries marine
turtle, freshwater turtle, or tortoise habitat,
if the activities of the authority directly or
indirectly affect marine turtle, freshwater
turtle, or tortoise conservation; or’’; and
(III) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘,
freshwater turtles, or tortoises’’ after ‘‘ma-
rine turtles’’;
(iv) in subsection (c)(2), in each of subpara-
graphs (A) and (C), by inserting ‘‘and terri-
tory of the United States’’ after ‘‘each coun-
try’’;
(v) by striking subsection (d) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(d) CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL.—The Sec-
retary may approve a project proposal under
this section if the Secretary determines that
the project will help to restore, recover, and
sustain a viable population of marine tur-
tles, freshwater turtles, or tortoises in the
wild by assisting efforts in a foreign country
or territory of the United States to imple-
ment a marine turtle, freshwater turtle, or
tortoise conservation program.’’; and
(vi) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘marine
turtles and their nesting habitats’’ and in-
serting ‘‘marine turtles, freshwater turtles,
or tortoises and the habitats of marine tur-
tles, freshwater turtles, or tortoises’’.
(D) MARINE TURTLE CONSERVATION FUND.—
Section 5 of the Marine Turtle Conservation
Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6604) is amended—
(i) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ‘‘section
6’’ and inserting ‘‘section 7(a)’’; and
(ii) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ‘‘3 per-
cent, or up to $80,000’’ and inserting ‘‘5 per-
cent, or up to $150,000’’.
(E) ADVISORY GROUP.—Section 6(a) of the
Marine Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 (16
U.S.C. 6605(a)) is amended by inserting ‘‘,
freshwater turtles, or tortoises’’ after ‘‘ma-
rine turtles’’.
(F) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
Section 7 of the Marine Turtle Conservation
Act of 2004 (16 U.S.C. 6606) is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to
be appropriated to the Fund $5,000,000 for
each of fiscal years 2019 through 2023.
‘‘(b) ALLOCATION.—Of the amounts made
available for each fiscal year pursuant to
subsection (a)—
‘‘(1) not less than $1,510,000 shall be used by
the Secretary for marine turtle conservation
purposes in accordance with this Act; and
‘‘(2) of the amounts in excess of the
amount described in paragraph (1), not less
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1088 February 7, 2019
than 40 percent shall be used by the Sec-
retary for freshwater turtle and tortoise con-
servation purposes in accordance with this
Act.’’.
(d) PRIZE COMPETITIONS.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) NON-FEDERAL FUNDS.—The term ‘‘non-
Federal funds’’ means funds provided by—
(i) a State;
(ii) a territory of the United States;
(iii) 1 or more units of local or tribal gov-
ernment;
(iv) a private for-profit entity;
(v) a nonprofit organization; or
(vi) a private individual.
(B) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the Di-
rector of the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service.
(C) WILDLIFE.—The term ‘‘wildlife’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 8 of the
Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C.
666b).
(2) THEODORE ROOSEVELT GENIUS PRIZE FOR
PREVENTION OF WILDLIFE POACHING AND TRAF-
FICKING.—
(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the
Prevention of Wildlife Poaching and Traf-
ficking Technology Advisory Board estab-
lished by subparagraph (C)(i).
(ii) PRIZE COMPETITION.—The term ‘‘prize
competition’’ means the Theodore Roosevelt
Genius Prize for the prevention of wildlife
poaching and trafficking established under
subparagraph (B).
(B) AUTHORITY.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish under section 24 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a prize com-
petition, to be known as the ‘‘Theodore Roo-
sevelt Genius Prize for the prevention of
wildlife poaching and trafficking’’—
(i) to encourage technological innovation
with the potential to advance the mission of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
with respect to the prevention of wildlife
poaching and trafficking; and
(ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for
a technological advancement that prevents
wildlife poaching and trafficking.
(C) ADVISORY BOARD.—
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board, to be known as the ‘‘Pre-
vention of Wildlife Poaching and Trafficking
Technology Advisory Board’’.
(ii) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 9 members appointed
by the Secretary, who shall provide expertise
in—
(I) wildlife trafficking and trade;
(II) wildlife conservation and management;
(III) biology;
(IV) technology development;
(V) engineering;
(VI) economics;
(VII) business development and manage-
ment; and
(VIII) any other discipline, as the Sec-
retary determines to be necessary to achieve
the purposes of this paragraph.
(iii) DUTIES.—Subject to clause (iv), with
respect to the prize competition, the Board
shall—
(I) select a topic;
(II) issue a problem statement;
(III) advise the Secretary regarding any op-
portunity for technological innovation to
prevent wildlife poaching and trafficking;
and
(IV) advise winners of the prize competi-
tion regarding opportunities to pilot and im-
plement winning technologies in relevant
fields, including in partnership with con-
servation organizations, Federal or State
agencies, federally recognized Indian tribes,
private entities, and research institutions
with expertise or interest relating to the pre-
vention of wildlife poaching and trafficking.
(iv) CONSULTATION.—In selecting a topic
and issuing a problem statement for the
prize competition under subclauses (I) and
(II) of clause (iii), respectively, the Board
shall consult widely with Federal and non-
Federal stakeholders, including—
(I) 1 or more Federal agencies with juris-
diction over the prevention of wildlife poach-
ing and trafficking;
(II) 1 or more State agencies with jurisdic-
tion over the prevention of wildlife poaching
and trafficking;
(III) 1 or more State, regional, or local
wildlife organizations, the mission of which
relates to the prevention of wildlife poaching
and trafficking; and
(IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation groups,
technology companies, research institutions,
institutions of higher education, industry as-
sociations, or individual stakeholders with
an interest in the prevention of wildlife
poaching and trafficking.
(v) REQUIREMENTS.—The Board shall com-
ply with all requirements under paragraph
(7)(A).
(D) AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into an agreement under which the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall
administer the prize competition.
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—An agreement entered
into under clause (i) shall comply with all re-
quirements under paragraph (7)(B).
(E) JUDGES.—
(i) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall ap-
point not fewer than 3 judges who shall, ex-
cept as provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or
more annual winners of the prize competi-
tion.
(ii) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.—The
judges appointed under clause (i) shall not
select any annual winner of the prize com-
petition if the Secretary makes a determina-
tion that, in any fiscal year, none of the
technological advancements entered into the
prize competition merits an award.
(F) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date on which a cash prize
is awarded under this paragraph, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report on the
prize competition that includes—
(i) a statement by the Board that describes
the activities carried out by the Board relat-
ing to the duties described in subparagraph
(C)(iii);
(ii) if the Secretary has entered into an
agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a
statement by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation that describes the activities car-
ried out by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation relating to the duties described
in paragraph (7)(B); and
(iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges
appointed under subparagraph (E) that ex-
plains the basis on which the winner of the
cash prize was selected.
(G) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
paragraph shall terminate on December 31,
2023.
(3) THEODORE ROOSEVELT GENIUS PRIZE FOR
PROMOTION OF WILDLIFE CONSERVATION.—
(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the
Promotion of Wildlife Conservation Tech-
nology Advisory Board established by sub-
paragraph (C)(i).
(ii) PRIZE COMPETITION.—The term ‘‘prize
competition’’ means the Theodore Roosevelt
Genius Prize for the promotion of wildlife
conservation established under subparagraph
(B).
(B) AUTHORITY.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish under section 24 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a prize com-
petition, to be known as the ‘‘Theodore Roo-
sevelt Genius Prize for the promotion of
wildlife conservation’’—
(i) to encourage technological innovation
with the potential to advance the mission of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
with respect to the promotion of wildlife
conservation; and
(ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for
a technological advancement that promotes
wildlife conservation.
(C) ADVISORY BOARD.—
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board, to be known as the ‘‘Pro-
motion of Wildlife Conservation Technology
Advisory Board’’.
(ii) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 9 members appointed
by the Secretary, who shall provide expertise
in—
(I) wildlife conservation and management;
(II) biology;
(III) technology development;
(IV) engineering;
(V) economics;
(VI) business development and manage-
ment; and
(VII) any other discipline, as the Secretary
determines to be necessary to achieve the
purposes of this paragraph.
(iii) DUTIES.—Subject to clause (iv), with
respect to the prize competition, the Board
shall—
(I) select a topic;
(II) issue a problem statement;
(III) advise the Secretary regarding any op-
portunity for technological innovation to
promote wildlife conservation; and
(IV) advise winners of the prize competi-
tion regarding opportunities to pilot and im-
plement winning technologies in relevant
fields, including in partnership with con-
servation organizations, Federal or State
agencies, federally recognized Indian tribes,
private entities, and research institutions
with expertise or interest relating to the
promotion of wildlife conservation.
(iv) CONSULTATION.—In selecting a topic
and issuing a problem statement for the
prize competition under subclauses (I) and
(II) of clause (iii), respectively, the Board
shall consult widely with Federal and non-
Federal stakeholders, including—
(I) 1 or more Federal agencies with juris-
diction over the promotion of wildlife con-
servation;
(II) 1 or more State agencies with jurisdic-
tion over the promotion of wildlife conserva-
tion;
(III) 1 or more State, regional, or local
wildlife organizations, the mission of which
relates to the promotion of wildlife con-
servation; and
(IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation groups,
technology companies, research institutions,
institutions of higher education, industry as-
sociations, or individual stakeholders with
an interest in the promotion of wildlife con-
servation.
(v) REQUIREMENTS.—The Board shall com-
ply with all requirements under paragraph
(7)(A).
(D) AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into an agreement under which the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall
administer the prize competition.
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—An agreement entered
into under clause (i) shall comply with all re-
quirements under paragraph (7)(B).
(E) JUDGES.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1089
February 7, 2019
(i) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall ap-
point not fewer than 3 judges who shall, ex-
cept as provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or
more annual winners of the prize competi-
tion.
(ii) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.—The
judges appointed under clause (i) shall not
select any annual winner of the prize com-
petition if the Secretary makes a determina-
tion that, in any fiscal year, none of the
technological advancements entered into the
prize competition merits an award.
(F) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date on which a cash prize
is awarded under this paragraph, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report on the
prize competition that includes—
(i) a statement by the Board that describes
the activities carried out by the Board relat-
ing to the duties described in subparagraph
(C)(iii);
(ii) if the Secretary has entered into an
agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a
statement by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation that describes the activities car-
ried out by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation relating to the duties described
in paragraph (7)(B); and
(iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges
appointed under subparagraph (E) that ex-
plains the basis on which the winner of the
cash prize was selected.
(G) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
paragraph shall terminate on December 31,
2023.
(4) THEODORE ROOSEVELT GENIUS PRIZE FOR
MANAGEMENT OF INVASIVE SPECIES.—
(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the
Management of Invasive Species Technology
Advisory Board established by subparagraph
(C)(i).
(ii) PRIZE COMPETITION.—The term ‘‘prize
competition’’ means the Theodore Roosevelt
Genius Prize for the management of invasive
species established under subparagraph (B).
(B) AUTHORITY.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish under section 24 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a prize com-
petition, to be known as the ‘‘Theodore Roo-
sevelt Genius Prize for the management of
invasive species’’—
(i) to encourage technological innovation
with the potential to advance the mission of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
with respect to the management of invasive
species; and
(ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for
a technological advancement that manages
invasive species.
(C) ADVISORY BOARD.—
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board, to be known as the ‘‘Man-
agement of Invasive Species Technology Ad-
visory Board’’.
(ii) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 9 members appointed
by the Secretary, who shall provide expertise
in—
(I) invasive species;
(II) biology;
(III) technology development;
(IV) engineering;
(V) economics;
(VI) business development and manage-
ment; and
(VII) any other discipline, as the Secretary
determines to be necessary to achieve the
purposes of this paragraph.
(iii) DUTIES.—Subject to clause (iv), with
respect to the prize competition, the Board
shall—
(I) select a topic;
(II) issue a problem statement;
(III) advise the Secretary regarding any op-
portunity for technological innovation to
manage invasive species; and
(IV) advise winners of the prize competi-
tion regarding opportunities to pilot and im-
plement winning technologies in relevant
fields, including in partnership with con-
servation organizations, Federal or State
agencies, federally recognized Indian tribes,
private entities, and research institutions
with expertise or interest relating to the
management of invasive species.
(iv) CONSULTATION.—In selecting a topic
and issuing a problem statement for the
prize competition under subclauses (I) and
(II) of clause (iii), respectively, the Board
shall consult widely with Federal and non-
Federal stakeholders, including—
(I) 1 or more Federal agencies with juris-
diction over the management of invasive
species;
(II) 1 or more State agencies with jurisdic-
tion over the management of invasive spe-
cies;
(III) 1 or more State, regional, or local
wildlife organizations, the mission of which
relates to the management of invasive spe-
cies; and
(IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation groups,
technology companies, research institutions,
institutions of higher education, industry as-
sociations, or individual stakeholders with
an interest in the management of invasive
species.
(v) REQUIREMENTS.—The Board shall com-
ply with all requirements under paragraph
(7)(A).
(D) AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into an agreement under which the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall
administer the prize competition.
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—An agreement entered
into under clause (i) shall comply with all re-
quirements under paragraph (7)(B).
(E) JUDGES.—
(i) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall ap-
point not fewer than 3 judges who shall, ex-
cept as provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or
more annual winners of the prize competi-
tion.
(ii) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.—The
judges appointed under clause (i) shall not
select any annual winner of the prize com-
petition if the Secretary makes a determina-
tion that, in any fiscal year, none of the
technological advancements entered into the
prize competition merits an award.
(F) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date on which a cash prize
is awarded under this paragraph, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report on the
prize competition that includes—
(i) a statement by the Board that describes
the activities carried out by the Board relat-
ing to the duties described in subparagraph
(C)(iii);
(ii) if the Secretary has entered into an
agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a
statement by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation that describes the activities car-
ried out by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation relating to the duties described
in paragraph (7)(B); and
(iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges
appointed under subparagraph (E) that ex-
plains the basis on which the winner of the
cash prize was selected.
(G) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
paragraph shall terminate on December 31,
2023.
(5) THEODORE ROOSEVELT GENIUS PRIZE FOR
PROTECTION OF ENDANGERED SPECIES.—
(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the
Protection of Endangered Species Tech-
nology Advisory Board established by sub-
paragraph (C)(i).
(ii) PRIZE COMPETITION.—The term ‘‘prize
competition’’ means the Theodore Roosevelt
Genius Prize for the protection of endan-
gered species established under subparagraph
(B).
(B) AUTHORITY.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish under section 24 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a prize com-
petition, to be known as the ‘‘Theodore Roo-
sevelt Genius Prize for the protection of en-
dangered species’’—
(i) to encourage technological innovation
with the potential to advance the mission of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
with respect to the protection of endangered
species; and
(ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for
a technological advancement that protects
endangered species.
(C) ADVISORY BOARD.—
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board, to be known as the ‘‘Pro-
tection of Endangered Species Technology
Advisory Board’’.
(ii) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 9 members appointed
by the Secretary, who shall provide expertise
in—
(I) endangered species;
(II) biology;
(III) technology development;
(IV) engineering;
(V) economics;
(VI) business development and manage-
ment; and
(VII) any other discipline, as the Secretary
determines to be necessary to achieve the
purposes of this paragraph.
(iii) DUTIES.—Subject to clause (iv), with
respect to the prize competition, the Board
shall—
(I) select a topic;
(II) issue a problem statement;
(III) advise the Secretary regarding any op-
portunity for technological innovation to
protect endangered species; and
(IV) advise winners of the prize competi-
tion regarding opportunities to pilot and im-
plement winning technologies in relevant
fields, including in partnership with con-
servation organizations, Federal or State
agencies, federally recognized Indian tribes,
private entities, and research institutions
with expertise or interest relating to the
protection of endangered species.
(iv) CONSULTATION.—In selecting a topic
and issuing a problem statement for the
prize competition under subclauses (I) and
(II) of clause (iii), respectively, the Board
shall consult widely with Federal and non-
Federal stakeholders, including—
(I) 1 or more Federal agencies with juris-
diction over the protection of endangered
species;
(II) 1 or more State agencies with jurisdic-
tion over the protection of endangered spe-
cies;
(III) 1 or more State, regional, or local
wildlife organizations, the mission of which
relates to the protection of endangered spe-
cies; and
(IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation groups,
technology companies, research institutions,
institutions of higher education, industry as-
sociations, or individual stakeholders with
an interest in the protection of endangered
species.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1090 February 7, 2019
(v) REQUIREMENTS.—The Board shall com-
ply with all requirements under paragraph
(7)(A).
(D) AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into an agreement under which the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall
administer the prize competition.
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—An agreement entered
into under clause (i) shall comply with all re-
quirements under paragraph (7)(B).
(E) JUDGES.—
(i) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall ap-
point not fewer than 3 judges who shall, ex-
cept as provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or
more annual winners of the prize competi-
tion.
(ii) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.—The
judges appointed under clause (i) shall not
select any annual winner of the prize com-
petition if the Secretary makes a determina-
tion that, in any fiscal year, none of the
technological advancements entered into the
prize competition merits an award.
(F) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date on which a cash prize
is awarded under this paragraph, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report on the
prize competition that includes—
(i) a statement by the Board that describes
the activities carried out by the Board relat-
ing to the duties described in subparagraph
(C)(iii);
(ii) if the Secretary has entered into an
agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a
statement by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation that describes the activities car-
ried out by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation relating to the duties described
in paragraph (7)(B); and
(iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges
appointed under subparagraph (E) that ex-
plains the basis on which the winner of the
cash prize was selected.
(G) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
paragraph shall terminate on December 31,
2023.
(6) THEODORE ROOSEVELT GENIUS PRIZE FOR
NONLETHAL MANAGEMENT OF HUMAN-WILDLIFE
CONFLICTS.—
(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph:
(i) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the
Nonlethal Management of Human-Wildlife
Conflicts Technology Advisory Board estab-
lished by subparagraph (C)(i).
(ii) PRIZE COMPETITION.—The term ‘‘prize
competition’’ means the Theodore Roosevelt
Genius Prize for the nonlethal management
of human-wildlife conflicts established under
subparagraph (B).
(B) AUTHORITY.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall establish under section 24 of
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innova-
tion Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3719) a prize com-
petition, to be known as the ‘‘Theodore Roo-
sevelt Genius Prize for the nonlethal man-
agement of human-wildlife conflicts’’—
(i) to encourage technological innovation
with the potential to advance the mission of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
with respect to the nonlethal management of
human-wildlife conflicts; and
(ii) to award 1 or more prizes annually for
a technological advancement that promotes
the nonlethal management of human-wildlife
conflicts.
(C) ADVISORY BOARD.—
(i) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
an advisory board, to be known as the ‘‘Non-
lethal Management of Human-Wildlife Con-
flicts Technology Advisory Board’’.
(ii) COMPOSITION.—The Board shall be com-
posed of not fewer than 9 members appointed
by the Secretary, who shall provide expertise
in—
(I) nonlethal wildlife management;
(II) social aspects of human-wildlife con-
flict management;
(III) biology;
(IV) technology development;
(V) engineering;
(VI) economics;
(VII) business development and manage-
ment; and
(VIII) any other discipline, as the Sec-
retary determines to be necessary to achieve
the purposes of this paragraph.
(iii) DUTIES.—Subject to clause (iv), with
respect to the prize competition, the Board
shall—
(I) select a topic;
(II) issue a problem statement;
(III) advise the Secretary regarding any op-
portunity for technological innovation to
promote the nonlethal management of
human-wildlife conflicts; and
(IV) advise winners of the prize competi-
tion regarding opportunities to pilot and im-
plement winning technologies in relevant
fields, including in partnership with con-
servation organizations, Federal or State
agencies, federally recognized Indian tribes,
private entities, and research institutions
with expertise or interest relating to the
nonlethal management of human-wildlife
conflicts.
(iv) CONSULTATION.—In selecting a topic
and issuing a problem statement for the
prize competition under subclauses (I) and
(II) of subparagraph (C), respectively, the
Board shall consult widely with Federal and
non-Federal stakeholders, including—
(I) 1 or more Federal agencies with juris-
diction over the management of native wild-
life species at risk due to conflict with
human activities;
(II) 1 or more State agencies with jurisdic-
tion over the management of native wildlife
species at risk due to conflict with human
activities;
(III) 1 or more State, regional, or local
wildlife organizations, the mission of which
relates to the management of native wildlife
species at risk due to conflict with human
activities; and
(IV) 1 or more wildlife conservation groups,
technology companies, research institutions,
institutions of higher education, industry as-
sociations, or individual stakeholders with
an interest in the management of native
wildlife species at risk due to conflict with
human activities.
(v) REQUIREMENTS.—The Board shall com-
ply with all requirements under paragraph
(7)(A).
(D) AGREEMENT WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall offer
to enter into an agreement under which the
National Fish and Wildlife Foundation shall
administer the prize competition.
(ii) REQUIREMENTS.—An agreement entered
into under clause (i) shall comply with all re-
quirements under paragraph (7)(B).
(E) JUDGES.—
(i) APPOINTMENT.—The Secretary shall ap-
point not fewer than 3 judges who shall, ex-
cept as provided in clause (ii), select the 1 or
more annual winners of the prize competi-
tion.
(ii) DETERMINATION BY SECRETARY.—The
judges appointed under clause (i) shall not
select any annual winner of the prize com-
petition if the Secretary makes a determina-
tion that, in any fiscal year, none of the
technological advancements entered into the
prize competition merits an award.
(F) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
60 days after the date on which a cash prize
is awarded under this paragraph, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a report on the
prize competition that includes—
(i) a statement by the Board that describes
the activities carried out by the Board relat-
ing to the duties described in subparagraph
(C)(iii);
(ii) if the Secretary has entered into an
agreement under subparagraph (D)(i), a
statement by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation that describes the activities car-
ried out by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation relating to the duties described
in paragraph (7)(B); and
(iii) a statement by 1 or more of the judges
appointed under subparagraph (E) that ex-
plains the basis on which the winner of the
cash prize was selected.
(G) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The
Board and all authority provided under this
paragraph shall terminate on December 31,
2023.
(7) ADMINISTRATION OF PRIZE COMPETI-
TIONS.—
(A) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADVI-
SORY BOARDS.—An advisory board established
under paragraph (2)(C)(i), (3)(C)(i), (4)(C)(i),
(5)(C)(i), or (6)(C)(i) (referred to in this para-
graph as a ‘‘Board’’) shall comply with the
following requirements:
(i) TERM; VACANCIES.—
(I) TERM.—A member of the Board shall
serve for a term of 5 years.
(II) VACANCIES.—A vacancy on the Board—
(aa) shall not affect the powers of the
Board; and
(bb) shall be filled in the same manner as
the original appointment was made.
(ii) INITIAL MEETING.—Not later than 30
days after the date on which all members of
the Board have been appointed, the Board
shall hold the initial meeting of the Board.
(iii) MEETINGS.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall meet at
the call of the Chairperson.
(II) REMOTE PARTICIPATION.—
(aa) IN GENERAL.—Any member of the
Board may participate in a meeting of the
Board through the use of—
(AA) teleconferencing; or
(BB) any other remote business tele-
communications method that allows each
participating member to simultaneously
hear each other participating member during
the meeting.
(bb) PRESENCE.—A member of the Board
who participates in a meeting remotely
under item (aa) shall be considered to be
present at the meeting.
(iv) QUORUM.—A majority of the members
of the Board shall constitute a quorum, but
a lesser number of members may hold a
meeting.
(v) CHAIRPERSON AND VICE CHAIRPERSON.—
The Board shall select a Chairperson and
Vice Chairperson from among the members
of the Board.
(vi) ADMINISTRATIVE COST REDUCTION.—The
Board shall, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, minimize the administrative costs of
the Board, including by encouraging the re-
mote participation described in clause
(iii)(II)(aa) to reduce travel costs.
(B) AGREEMENTS WITH NATIONAL FISH AND
WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.—Any agreement en-
tered into under paragraph (2)(D)(i), (3)(D)(i),
(4)(D)(i), (5)(D)(i), or (6)(D)(i) shall comply
with the following requirements:
(i) DUTIES.—An agreement shall provide
that the National Fish and Wildlife Founda-
tion shall—
(I) advertise the prize competition;
(II) solicit prize competition participants;
(III) administer funds relating to the prize
competition;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1091
February 7, 2019
(IV) receive Federal funds—
(aa) to administer the prize competition;
and
(bb) to award a cash prize;
(V) carry out activities to generate con-
tributions of non-Federal funds to offset, in
whole or in part—
(aa) the administrative costs of the prize
competition; and
(bb) the costs of a cash prize;
(VI) in consultation with, and subject to
final approval by, the Secretary, develop cri-
teria for the selection of prize competition
winners;
(VII) provide advice and consultation to
the Secretary on the selection of judges
under paragraphs (2)(E), (3)(E), (4)(E), (5)(E),
and (6)(E) based on criteria developed in con-
sultation with, and subject to the final ap-
proval of, the Secretary;
(VIII) announce 1 or more annual winners
of the prize competition;
(IX) subject to clause (ii), award 1 cash
prize annually; and
(X) protect against unauthorized use or
disclosure by the National Fish and Wildlife
Foundation of any trade secret or confiden-
tial business information of a prize competi-
tion participant.
(ii) ADDITIONAL CASH PRIZES.—An agree-
ment shall provide that the National Fish
and Wildlife Foundation may award more
than 1 cash prize annually if the initial cash
prize referred to in clause (i)(IX) and any ad-
ditional cash prize are awarded using only
non-Federal funds.
(iii) SOLICITATION OF FUNDS.—An agree-
ment shall provide that the National Fish
and Wildlife Foundation—
(I) may request and accept Federal funds
and non-Federal funds for a cash prize;
(II) may accept a contribution for a cash
prize in exchange for the right to name the
prize; and
(III) shall not give special consideration to
any Federal agency or non-Federal entity in
exchange for a donation for a cash prize
awarded under this subsection.
(C) AWARD AMOUNTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The amount of the initial
cash prize referred to in subparagraph
(B)(i)(IX) shall be $100,000.
(ii) ADDITIONAL CASH PRIZES.—On notifica-
tion by the National Fish and Wildlife Foun-
dation that non-Federal funds are available
for an additional cash prize, the Secretary
shall determine the amount of the additional
cash prize.
SEC. 7002. REAUTHORIZATION OF NEOTROPICAL
MIGRATORY BIRD CONSERVATION
ACT.
Section 10 of the Neotropical Migratory
Bird Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 6109) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 10. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to
be appropriated to carry out this Act
$6,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 through
2023.
‘‘(b) USE OF FUNDS.—Of the amounts made
available under subsection (a) for each fiscal
year, not less than 75 percent shall be ex-
pended for projects carried out at a location
outside of the United States.’’.
SEC. 7003. JOHN H. CHAFEE COASTAL BARRIER
RESOURCES SYSTEM.
(a) REPLACEMENT OF JOHN H. CHAFEE
COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM
MAPS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (3),
each map included in the set of maps re-
ferred to in section 4(a) of the Coastal Bar-
rier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3503(a)) that re-
lates to a Unit of such System referred to in
paragraph (2) is replaced in such set with the
map described in that paragraph with re-
spect to that Unit.
(2) REPLACEMENT MAPS DESCRIBED.—The re-
placement maps referred to in paragraph (1)
are the following:
(A) The map entitled ‘‘Delaware Seashore
Unit DE–07/DE–07P North Bethany Beach
Unit H01’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with re-
spect to Unit DE–07, Unit DE–07P, and Unit
H01.
(B) The map entitled ‘‘Pine Island Bay
Unit NC–01/NC–01P’’ and dated March 18,
2016, with respect to Unit NC–01 and Unit
NC–01P.
(C) The map entitled ‘‘Roosevelt Natural
Area Unit NC–05P’’ and dated March 18, 2016,
with respect to Unit NC–05P.
(D) The map entitled ‘‘Hammocks Beach
Unit NC–06/NC–06P (2 of 2) Onslow Beach
Complex L05 (1 of 2)’’ and dated March 18,
2016, with respect to Unit L05.
(E) The map entitled ‘‘Onslow Beach Com-
plex L05 (2 of 2) Topsail Unit L06 (1 of 2)’’ and
dated November 20, 2013, with respect to Unit
L05 and Unit L06.
(F) The map entitled ‘‘Topsail Unit L06 (2
of 2)’’ and dated November 20, 2013, with re-
spect to Unit L06.
(G) The map entitled ‘‘Litchfield Beach
Unit M02 Pawleys Inlet Unit M03’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit M02 and
Unit M03.
(H) The map entitled ‘‘Fort Clinch Unit
FL–01/FL–01P’’ and dated March 18, 2016,
with respect to Unit FL–01 and Unit FL–01P.
(I) The map entitled ‘‘Usina Beach Unit
P04A Conch Island Unit P05/P05P’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit P04A,
Unit P05, and Unit P05P.
(J) The map entitled ‘‘Ponce Inlet Unit
P08/P08P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with re-
spect to Unit P08 and Unit P08P.
(K) The map entitled ‘‘Spessard Holland
Park Unit FL–13P Coconut Point Unit P09A/
P09AP’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with re-
spect to Unit FL–13P, Unit P09A, and Unit
P09AP.
(L) The map entitled ‘‘Blue Hole Unit P10A
Pepper Beach Unit FL–14P’’ and dated March
18, 2016, with respect to Unit P10A and Unit
FL–14P.
(M) The map entitled ‘‘Hutchinson Island
Unit P11/P11P (1 of 2)’’ and dated March 18,
2016, with respect to Unit P11 and Unit P11P.
(N) The map entitled ‘‘Hutchinson Island
Unit P11 (2 of 2)’’ and dated March 18, 2016,
with respect to Unit P11.
(O) The map entitled ‘‘Blowing Rocks Unit
FL–15 Jupiter Beach Unit FL–16P Carlin
Unit FL–17P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with
respect to Unit FL–15, Unit FL–16P, and Unit
FL–17P.
(P) The map entitled ‘‘MacArthur Beach
Unit FL–18P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with
respect to Unit FL–18P.
(Q) The map entitled ‘‘Birch Park Unit FL–
19P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with respect
to Unit FL–19P.
(R) The map entitled ‘‘Lloyd Beach Unit
FL–20P North Beach Unit P14A’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL–20P
and Unit P14A.
(S) The map entitled ‘‘Tavernier Key Unit
FL–39 Snake Creek Unit FL–40’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL–39
and Unit FL–40.
(T) The map entitled ‘‘Channel Key Unit
FL–43 Toms Harbor Keys Unit FL–44 Deer/
Long Point Keys Unit FL–45’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit FL–43,
Unit FL–44, and FL–45.
(U) The map entitled ‘‘Boot Key Unit FL–
46’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to
Unit FL–46.
(V) The map entitled ‘‘Bowditch Point
Unit P17A Bunche Beach Unit FL–67/FL–67P
Sanibel Island Complex P18P (1 of 2)’’ and
dated March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit
P17A, Unit FL–67, and Unit FL–67P.
(W) The map entitled ‘‘Bocilla Island Unit
P21/P21P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with re-
spect to Unit P21 and Unit P21P.
(X) The map entitled ‘‘Venice Inlet Unit
FL–71P Casey Key Unit P22’’ and dated
March 18, 2016, with respect to Unit P22.
(Y) The map entitled ‘‘Lido Key Unit FL–
72P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with respect
to Unit FL–72P.
(Z) The map entitled ‘‘De Soto Unit FL–
73P Rattlesnake Key Unit FL–78 Bishop Har-
bor Unit FL–82’’ and dated March 18, 2016,
with respect to Unit FL–73P, Unit FL–78, and
Unit FL–82.
(AA) The map entitled ‘‘Passage Key Unit
FL–80P Egmont Key Unit FL–81/FL–81P The
Reefs Unit P24P (1 of 2)’’ and dated March 18,
2016, with respect to Unit FL–80P, Unit FL–
81, and Unit FL–81P.
(BB) The map entitled ‘‘Cockroach Bay
Unit FL–83’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with
respect to Unit FL–83.
(CC) The map entitled ‘‘Sand Key Unit FL–
85P’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with respect
to Unit FL–85P.
(DD) The map entitled ‘‘Pepperfish Keys
Unit P26’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with re-
spect to Unit P26.
(EE) The map entitled ‘‘Peninsula Point
Unit FL–89’’ and dated March 18, 2016, with
respect to Unit FL–89.
(FF) The map entitled ‘‘Phillips Inlet Unit
FL–93/FL–93P Deer Lake Complex FL–94’’
and dated March 18, 2016, with respect to
Unit FL–93, Unit FL–93P, and Unit FL–94.
(GG) The map entitled ‘‘St. Andrew Com-
plex P31 (1 of 3)’’ and dated October 7, 2016,
with respect to Unit P31.
(HH) The map entitled ‘‘St. Andrew Com-
plex P31 (2 of 3)’’ and dated October 7, 2016,
with respect to Unit P31.
(II) The map entitled ‘‘St. Andrew Complex
P31/P31P (3 of 3)’’ and dated October 7, 2016,
with respect to Unit P31 and Unit P31P.
(3) LIMITATIONS.—For purposes of para-
graph (1)—
(A) nothing in this subsection affects the
boundaries of any of Units NC–06 and NC–
06P;
(B) the occurrence in paragraph (2) of the
name of a Unit solely in the title of a map
shall not be construed to be a reference to
such Unit; and
(C) the depiction of boundaries of any of
Units P18P, FL–71P, and P24P in a map re-
ferred to in subparagraph (V), (X), or (AA) of
paragraph (2) shall not be construed to affect
the boundaries of such Unit.
(4) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 4(a)
of the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16
U.S.C. 3503(a)) is amended—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by inserting ‘‘replaced,’’ after ‘‘may be’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ‘‘replaces
such a map or’’ after ‘‘that specifically’’.
(b) DIGITAL MAPS OF JOHN H. CHAFEE
COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM
UNITS.—Section 4(b) of the Coastal Barrier
Resources Act (16 U.S.C. 3503(b)) is amend-
ed—
(1) by inserting before the first sentence
the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) DIGITAL MAPS.—
‘‘(A) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary shall
make available to the public on the Internet
web site of the United States Fish and Wild-
life Service digital versions of the maps in-
cluded in the set of maps referred to in sub-
section (a).
‘‘(B) EFFECT.—Any determination as to
whether a location is inside or outside the
System shall be made without regard to the
digital maps available under this paragraph,
except that this subparagraph does not apply
with respect to any printed version of such a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1092 February 7, 2019
digital map if the printed version is included
in the maps referred to in subsection (a).
‘‘(C) REPORT.—No later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of Natural Re-
sources Management Act, the Secretary
shall submit to the Committee on Natural
Resources of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Environment and
Public Works of the Senate a report regard-
ing the progress and challenges in the transi-
tion from paper to digital maps and a time-
table for completion of the digitization of all
maps related to the System.’’.
(c) REPEAL OF REPORT.—Section 3 of Public
Law 109–226 (16 U.S.C. 3503 note) is repealed.
TITLE VIII—WATER AND POWER
Subtitle A—Reclamation Title Transfer
SEC. 8001. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this subtitle is to facilitate
the transfer of title to Reclamation project
facilities to qualifying entities on the com-
pletion of repayment of capital costs.
SEC. 8002. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) CONVEYED PROPERTY.—The term ‘‘con-
veyed property’’ means an eligible facility
that has been conveyed to a qualifying enti-
ty under section 8003.
(2) ELIGIBLE FACILITY.—The term ‘‘eligible
facility’’ means a facility that meets the cri-
teria for potential transfer established under
section 8004(a).
(3) FACILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘facility’’ in-
cludes a dam or appurtenant works, canal,
lateral, ditch, gate, control structure, pump-
ing station, other infrastructure, rec-
reational facility, building, distribution and
drainage works, and associated land or inter-
est in land or water.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘facility’’ does
not include a Reclamation project facility,
or a portion of a Reclamation project facil-
ity—
(i) that is a reserved works as of the date
of enactment of this Act;
(ii) that generates hydropower marketed
by a Federal power marketing administra-
tion; or
(iii) that is managed for recreation under a
lease, permit, license, or other management
agreement that does contribute to capital re-
payment.
(4) PROJECT USE POWER.—The term ‘‘project
use power’’ means the electrical capacity,
energy, and associated ancillary service
components required to provide the min-
imum electrical service needed to operate or
maintain Reclamation project facilities in
accordance with the authorization for the
Reclamation project.
(5) QUALIFYING ENTITY.—The term ‘‘quali-
fying entity’’ means an agency of a State or
political subdivision of a State, a joint ac-
tion or powers agency, a water users associa-
tion, or an Indian Tribe or Tribal utility au-
thority that—
(A) as of the date of conveyance under this
subtitle, is the current operator of the eligi-
ble facility pursuant to a contract with Rec-
lamation; and
(B) as determined by the Secretary, has
the capacity to continue to manage the eligi-
ble facility for the same purposes for which
the property has been managed under the
reclamation laws.
(6) RECLAMATION.—The term ‘‘Reclama-
tion’’ means the Bureau of Reclamation.
(7) RECLAMATION PROJECT.—The term ‘‘Rec-
lamation project’’ means—
(A) any reclamation or irrigation project,
including incidental features of the project—
(i) that is authorized by the reclamation
laws;
(ii) that is constructed by the United
States pursuant to the reclamation laws; or
(iii) in connection with which there is a re-
payment or water service contract executed
by the United States pursuant to the rec-
lamation laws; or
(B) any project constructed by the Sec-
retary for the reclamation of land.
(8) RESERVED WORKS.—The term ‘‘reserved
works’’ means any building, structure, facil-
ity, or equipment—
(A) that is owned by the Bureau; and
(B) for which operations and maintenance
are performed, regardless of the source of
funding—
(i) by an employee of the Bureau; or
(ii) through a contract entered into by the
Commissioner.
(9) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary, acting through the
Commissioner of Reclamation.
SEC. 8003. AUTHORIZATION OF TRANSFERS OF
TITLE TO ELIGIBLE FACILITIES.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the require-
ments of this subtitle, the Secretary, with-
out further authorization from Congress,
may, on application of a qualifying entity,
convey to a qualifying entity all right, title,
and interest of the United States in and to
any eligible facility, if—
(A) not later than 90 days before the date
on which the Secretary makes the convey-
ance, the Secretary submits to Congress—
(i) a written notice of the proposed convey-
ance; and
(ii) a description of the reasons for the con-
veyance; and
(B) a joint resolution disapproving the con-
veyance is not enacted before the date on
which the Secretary makes the conveyance.
(2) CONSULTATION.—A conveyance under
paragraph (1) shall be made by written agree-
ment between the Secretary and the quali-
fying entity, developed in consultation with
any existing water and power customers af-
fected by the conveyance of the eligible fa-
cility.
(b) RESERVATION OF EASEMENT.—The Sec-
retary may reserve an easement over a con-
veyed property if—
(1) the Secretary determines that the ease-
ment is necessary for the management of
any interests retained by the Federal Gov-
ernment under this subtitle;
(2) the Reclamation project or a portion of
the Reclamation project remains under Fed-
eral ownership; and
(3) the Secretary enters into an agreement
regarding the easement with the applicable
qualifying entity.
(c) INTERESTS IN WATER.—No interests in
water shall be conveyed under this subtitle
unless the conveyance is provided for in a
separate, quantified agreement between the
Secretary and the qualifying entity, subject
to applicable State law and public process
requirements.
SEC. 8004. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall
establish criteria for determining whether a
facility is eligible for conveyance under this
subtitle.
(b) MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) AGREEMENT OF QUALIFYING ENTITY.—The
criteria established under subsection (a)
shall include a requirement that a qualifying
entity shall agree—
(A) to accept title to the eligible facility;
(B) to use the eligible facility for substan-
tially the same purposes for which the eligi-
ble facility is being used at the time the Sec-
retary evaluates the potential transfer; and
(C) to provide, as consideration for the as-
sets to be conveyed, compensation to the
reclamation fund established by the first
section of the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat.
388, chapter 1093), in an amount that is the
equivalent of the net present value of any re-
payment obligation to the United States or
other income stream that the United States
derives from the eligible facility to be trans-
ferred, as of the date of the transfer.
(2) DETERMINATIONS OF SECRETARY.—The
criteria established under subsection (a)
shall include a requirement that the Sec-
retary shall—
(A) be able to enter into an agreement with
the qualifying entity with respect to the
legal, institutional, and financial arrange-
ments relating to the conveyance;
(B) determine that the proposed transfer—
(i) would not have an unmitigated signifi-
cant effect on the environment;
(ii) is consistent with the responsibilities
of the Secretary—
(I) in the role as trustee for federally rec-
ognized Indian Tribes; and
(II) to ensure compliance with any applica-
ble international and Tribal treaties and
agreements and interstate compacts and
agreements;
(iii) is in the financial interest of the
United States;
(iv) protects the public aspects of the eligi-
ble facility, including water rights managed
for public purposes, such as flood control or
fish and wildlife;
(v) complies with all applicable Federal
and State law; and
(vi) will not result in an adverse impact on
fulfillment of existing water delivery obliga-
tions consistent with historical operations
and applicable contracts; and
(C) if the eligible facility proposed to be
transferred is a dam or diversion works (not
including canals or other project features
that receive or convey water from the divert-
ing works) diverting water from a water
body containing a species listed as a threat-
ened species or an endangered species or crit-
ical habitat under the Endangered Species
Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.), determine
that—
(i) the eligible facility continues to comply
with the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) in a manner that provides
no less protection to the listed species as ex-
isted under Federal ownership; and
(ii) the eligible facility is not part of the
Central Valley Project in the State of Cali-
fornia.
(3) STATUS OF RECLAMATION LAND.—The cri-
teria established under subsection (a) shall
require that any land to be conveyed out of
Federal ownership under this subtitle is—
(A) land acquired by the Secretary; or
(B) land withdrawn by the Secretary, only
if—
(i) the Secretary determines in writing
that the withdrawn land is encumbered by
facilities to the extent that the withdrawn
land is unsuitable for return to the public
domain; and
(ii) the qualifying entity agrees to pay fair
market value based on historical or existing
uses for the withdrawn land to be conveyed.
(c) HOLD HARMLESS.—No conveyance under
this subtitle shall adversely impact applica-
ble Federal power rates, repayment obliga-
tions, or other project power uses.
SEC. 8005. LIABILITY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Effective on the date of
conveyance of any eligible facility under this
subtitle, the United States shall not be held
liable by any court for damages of any kind
arising out of any act, omission, or occur-
rence relating to the eligible facility, other
than damages caused by acts of negligence
committed by the United States or by agents
or employees of the United States prior to
the date of the conveyance.
(b) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section in-
creases the liability of the United States be-
yond that currently provided in chapter 171
of title 28, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Federal Tort Claims Act’’).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1093
February 7, 2019
SEC. 8006. BENEFITS.
After a conveyance of an eligible facility
under this subtitle—
(1) the conveyed property shall no longer
be considered to be part of a Reclamation
project;
(2) except as provided in paragraph (3), the
qualifying entity to which the conveyed
property is conveyed shall not be eligible to
receive any benefits, including project use
power, with respect to the conveyed prop-
erty, except for any benefit that would be
available to a similarly situated entity with
respect to property that is not a part of a
Reclamation project; and
(3) the qualifying entity to which the con-
veyed property is conveyed may be eligible
to receive project use power if—
(A) the qualifying entity is receiving
project use power as of the date of enact-
ment of this Act;
(B) the project use power will be used for
the delivery of Reclamation project water;
and
(C) the Secretary and the qualifying entity
enter into an agreement under which the
qualifying entity agrees to continue to be re-
sponsible for a proportionate share of oper-
ation and maintenance and capital costs for
the Federal facilities that generate and de-
liver, if applicable, power used for delivery of
Reclamation project water after the date of
conveyance, in accordance with Reclamation
project use power rates.
SEC. 8007. COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Before conveying an eli-
gible facility under this subtitle, the Sec-
retary shall comply with all applicable Fed-
eral environmental laws, including—
(1) the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
(2) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.); and
(3) subtitle III of title 54, United States
Code.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that any Federal permitting and
review processes required with respect to a
conveyance of an eligible facility under this
subtitle should be completed with the max-
imum efficiency and effectiveness.
Subtitle B—Endangered Fish Recovery
Programs
SEC. 8101. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION FOR
ANNUAL BASE FUNDING OF FISH RE-
COVERY PROGRAMS; REMOVAL OF
CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIRE-
MENT.
Section 3(d) of Public Law 106–392 (114 Stat.
1604; 126 Stat. 2444) is amended—
(1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to
be appropriated to the Secretary to be used
by the Bureau of Reclamation to make the
annual base funding contributions to the Re-
covery Implementation Programs $10,000,000
for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2023.
‘‘(B) NONREIMURSABLE FUNDS.—The funds
contributed to the Recovery Implementation
Programs under subparagraph (A) shall be
considered a nonreimbursable Federal ex-
penditure.’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking the fourth,
fifth, sixth, and seventh sentences.
SEC. 8102. REPORT ON RECOVERY IMPLEMENTA-
TION PROGRAMS.
Section 3 of Public Law 106–392 (114 Stat.
1603; 126 Stat. 2444) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(j) REPORT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than Sep-
tember 30, 2021, the Secretary shall submit
to the appropriate committees of Congress a
report that—
‘‘(A) describes the accomplishments of the
Recovery Implementation Programs;
‘‘(B) identifies—
‘‘(i) as of the date of the report, the listing
status under the Endangered Species Act of
1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) of the Colorado
pikeminnow, humpback chub, razorback
sucker, and bonytail; and
‘‘(ii) as of September 30, 2023, the projected
listing status under that Act of each of the
species referred to in clause (i);
‘‘(C)(i) identifies—
‘‘(I) the total expenditures and the expend-
itures by categories of activities by the Re-
covery Implementation Programs during the
period beginning on the date on which the
applicable Recovery Implementation Pro-
gram was established and ending on Sep-
tember 30, 2021; and
‘‘(II) projected expenditures by the Recov-
ery Implementation Programs during the pe-
riod beginning on October 1, 2021, and ending
on September 30, 2023; and
‘‘(ii) for purposes of the expenditures iden-
tified under clause (i), includes a description
of—
‘‘(I) any expenditures of appropriated
funds;
‘‘(II) any power revenues;
‘‘(III) any contributions by the States,
power customers, Tribes, water users, and
environmental organizations; and
‘‘(IV) any other sources of funds for the Re-
covery Implementation Programs; and
‘‘(D) describes—
‘‘(i) any activities to be carried out under
the Recovery Implementation Program after
September 30, 2023; and
‘‘(ii) the projected cost of the activities de-
scribed under clause (i).
‘‘(2) CONSULTATION REQUIRED.—The Sec-
retary shall consult with the participants in
the Recovery Implementation Programs in
preparing the report under paragraph (1).’’.
Subtitle C—Yakima River Basin Water
Enhancement Project
SEC. 8201. AUTHORIZATION OF PHASE III.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) INTEGRATED PLAN.—The term ‘‘Inte-
grated Plan’’ means the Yakima River Basin
Integrated Water Resource Management
Plan, the Federal elements of which are
known as ‘‘phase III of the Yakima River
Basin Water Enhancement Project’’, as de-
scribed in the Bureau of Reclamation docu-
ment entitled ‘‘Record of Decision for the
Yakima River Basin Integrated Water Re-
source Management Plan Final Pro-
grammatic Environmental Impact State-
ment’’ and dated March 2, 2012.
(2) IRRIGATION ENTITY.—The term ‘‘irriga-
tion entity’’ means a district, project, or
State-recognized authority, board of control,
agency, or entity located in the Yakima
River basin that manages and delivers irriga-
tion water to farms in the Yakima River
basin.
(3) PRORATABLE IRRIGATION ENTITY.—The
term ‘‘proratable irrigation entity’’ means
an irrigation entity that possesses, or the
members of which possess, proratable water
(as defined in section 1202 of Public Law 103–
434 (108 Stat. 4551)).
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Washington.
(5) TOTAL WATER SUPPLY AVAILABLE.—The
term ‘‘total water supply available’’ has the
meaning given the term in applicable civil
actions, as determined by the Secretary.
(6) YAKIMA RIVER BASIN WATER ENHANCE-
MENT PROJECT.—The term ‘‘Yakima River
Basin Water Enhancement Project’’ means
the Yakima River basin water enhancement
project authorized by Congress pursuant to
title XII of Public Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4550;
114 Stat. 1425) and other Acts (including Pub-
lic Law 96–162 (93 Stat. 1241), section 109 of
Public Law 98–381 (16 U.S.C. 839b note), and
Public Law 105–62 (111 Stat. 1320)) to promote
water conservation, water supply, habitat,
and stream enhancement improvements in
the Yakima River basin.
(b) INTEGRATED PLAN.—
(1) INITIAL DEVELOPMENT PHASE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—As the initial develop-
ment phase of the Integrated Plan, the Sec-
retary, in coordination with the State and
the Yakama Nation, shall identify and im-
plement projects under the Integrated Plan
that are prepared to be commenced during
the 10-year period beginning on the date of
enactment of this Act.
(B) REQUIREMENT.—The initial develop-
ment phase of the Integrated Plan under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be carried out in accord-
ance with—
(i) this subsection, including any related
plans, reports, and correspondence referred
to in this subsection; and
(ii) title XII of Public Law 103–434 (108
Stat. 4550; 114 Stat. 1425).
(2) INTERMEDIATE AND FINAL DEVELOPMENT
PHASES.—
(A) PLANS.—The Secretary, in coordination
with the State and the Yakama Nation, shall
develop plans for the intermediate and final
development phases of the Integrated Plan
to achieve the purposes of title XII of Public
Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4550; 114 Stat. 1425), in-
cluding conducting applicable feasibility
studies, environmental reviews, and other
relevant studies required to develop those
plans.
(B) INTERMEDIATE DEVELOPMENT PHASE.—
The Secretary, in coordination with the
State and the Yakama Nation, shall develop
an intermediate development phase of the
Integrated Plan, to commence not earlier
than the date that is 10 years after the date
of enactment of this Act.
(C) FINAL DEVELOPMENT PHASE.—The Sec-
retary, in coordination with the State and
the Yakama Nation, shall develop a final de-
velopment phase of the Integrated Plan, to
commence not earlier than the date that is
20 years after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(3) REQUIREMENTS.—The projects and ac-
tivities identified by the Secretary for im-
plementation under the Integrated Plan
shall be carried out only—
(A) subject to authorization and appropria-
tion;
(B) contingent on the completion of appli-
cable feasibility studies, environmental re-
views, and cost-benefit analyses that include
favorable recommendations for further
project development;
(C) on public review and a determination
by the Secretary that design, construction,
and operation of a proposed project or activ-
ity is in the best interest of the public; and
(D) in accordance with applicable laws, in-
cluding—
(i) the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and
(ii) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
(4) EFFECT OF SUBSECTION.—Nothing in this
subsection—
(A) shall be considered to be a new or sup-
plemental benefit for purposes of the Rec-
lamation Reform Act of 1982 (43 U.S.C. 390aa
et seq.);
(B) affects—
(i) any contract in existence on the date of
enactment of this Act that was executed pur-
suant to the reclamation laws; or
(ii) any contract or agreement between the
Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Bureau of
Reclamation;
(C) affects, waives, abrogates, diminishes,
defines, or interprets any treaty between the
Yakama Nation and the United States; or
(D) constrains the authority of the Sec-
retary to provide fish passage in the Yakima
River basin, in accordance with the Hoover
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1094 February 7, 2019
Power Plant Act of 1984 (43 U.S.C. 619 et
seq.).
(5) PROGRESS REPORT.—Not later than 5
years after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary, in conjunction with the
State and in consultation with the Yakama
Nation, shall submit to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
and the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives a progress re-
port on the development and implementa-
tion of the Integrated Plan.
(c) FINANCING, CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION,
AND MAINTENANCE OF KACHESS DROUGHT RE-
LIEF PUMPING PLANT AND KEECHELUS TO
KACHESS PIPELINE.—
(1) LONG-TERM AGREEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A long-term agreement
negotiated pursuant to this section or the
reclamation laws between the Secretary and
a participating proratable irrigation entity
in the Yakima River basin for the non-Fed-
eral financing, construction, operation, or
maintenance of the Drought Relief Pumping
Plant or the Keechelus to Kachess Pipeline
shall include provisions regarding—
(i) responsibilities of each participating
proratable irrigation entity for—
(I) the planning, design, and construction
of infrastructure, in consultation and coordi-
nation with the Secretary; and
(II) the pumping and operational costs nec-
essary to provide the total water supply
available that is made inaccessible due to
drought pumping during any preceding cal-
endar year, if the Kachess Reservoir fails to
refill as a result of pumping drought storage
water during such a calendar year;
(ii) property titles and responsibilities of
each participating proratable irrigation enti-
ty for the maintenance of, and liability for,
all infrastructure constructed under title XII
of Public Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4550; 114 Stat.
1425);
(iii) operation and integration of the
projects by the Secretary in the operation of
the Yakima Project; and
(iv) costs associated with the design, fi-
nancing, construction, operation, mainte-
nance, and mitigation of projects, with the
costs of Federal oversight and review to be
nonreimbursable to the participating prorat-
able irrigation entities and the Yakima
Project.
(B) TREATMENT.—A facility developed or
operated by a participating proratable irri-
gation entity under this subsection shall not
be considered to be a supplemental work for
purposes of section 9(a) of the Reclamation
Project Act of 1939 (43 U.S.C. 485h(a)).
(2) KACHESS RESERVOIR.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Any additional stored
water made available by the construction of
a facility to access and deliver inactive and
natural storage in Kachess Lake and Res-
ervoir under this subsection—
(i) shall be considered to be Yakima
Project water;
(ii) shall be used exclusively by the Sec-
retary to enhance the water supply during
years for which the total water supply avail-
able is not sufficient to provide a percentage
of proratable entitlements in order to make
that additional water available, in a quan-
tity representing not more than 70 percent of
proratable entitlements to the Kittitas Rec-
lamation District, the Roza Irrigation Dis-
trict, or any other proratable irrigation enti-
ty participating in the construction, oper-
ation, or maintenance costs of a facility
under this section, in accordance with such
terms and conditions as the districts may
agree, subject to the conditions that—
(I) the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the
Wapato Irrigation Project, and the Yakama
Nation, on an election to participate, may
also obtain water from Kachess Reservoir in-
active storage to enhance applicable existing
irrigation water supply in accordance with
such terms and conditions as the Bureau of
Indian Affairs and the Yakama Nation may
agree; and
(II) the additional supply made available
under this clause shall be available to par-
ticipating individuals and entities based on—
(aa) the proportion that—
(AA) the proratable entitlement of each
participating individual or entity; bears to
(BB) the proratable entitlements of all par-
ticipating individuals and entities; or
(bb) such other proportion as the partici-
pating entities may agree; and
(iii) shall not be any portion of the total
water supply available.
(B) EFFECT OF PARAGRAPH.—Nothing in this
paragraph affects, as in existence on the date
of enactment of this Act, any—
(i) contract;
(ii) law (including regulations) relating to
repayment costs;
(iii) water rights; or
(iv) treaty right of the Yakama Nation.
(3) PROJECT POWER FOR KACHESS PUMPING
PLANT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraphs
(B) through (D), the Administrator of the
Bonneville Power Administration, pursuant
to the Pacific Northwest Electric Power
Planning and Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 839
et seq.), shall provide to the Secretary
project power to operate the Kachess Pump-
ing Plant constructed under this section if
inactive storage in the Kachess Reservoir is
needed to provide drought relief for irriga-
tion.
(B) DETERMINATIONS BY SECRETARY.—The
project power described in subparagraph (A)
may be provided only if the Secretary deter-
mines that—
(i) there are in effect—
(I) a drought declaration issued by the
State; and
(II) conditions that have led to 70 percent
or lower water delivery to proratable irriga-
tion districts; and
(ii) it is appropriate to provide the power
under that subparagraph.
(C) PERIOD OF AVAILABILITY.—The power
described in subparagraph (A) shall be pro-
vided during the period—
(i) beginning on the date on which the Sec-
retary makes the determinations described
in subparagraph (B); and
(ii) ending on the earlier of—
(I) the date that is 1 year after that date;
and
(II) the date on which the Secretary deter-
mines that—
(aa) drought mitigation measures are still
necessary in the Yakima River basin; or
(bb) the power should no longer be provided
for any other reason.
(D) RATE.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator of the
Bonneville Power Administration shall pro-
vide project power under subparagraph (A) at
the then-applicable lowest Bonneville Power
Administration rate for public body, cooper-
ative, and Federal agency customer firm ob-
ligations on the date on which the authority
is provided.
(ii) NO DISCOUNTS.—The rate under clause
(i) shall not include any irrigation discount.
(E) LOCAL PROVIDER.—During any period
for which project power is not provided
under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall
obtain power to operate the Kachess Pump-
ing Plant from a local provider.
(F) OTHER COSTS.—The cost of power for
pumping and station service, and the costs of
transmitting power from the Federal Colum-
bia River power system to the pumping fa-
cilities of the Yakima River Basin Water En-
hancement Project, shall be borne by the ir-
rigation districts receiving the benefits of
the applicable water.
(G) DUTIES OF COMMISSIONER.—For purposes
of this paragraph, the Commissioner of Rec-
lamation shall arrange transmission for any
delivery of—
(i) Federal power over the Bonneville sys-
tem through applicable tariff and business
practice processes of that system; or
(ii) power obtained from any local pro-
vider.
(d) DESIGN AND USE OF GROUNDWATER RE-
CHARGE PROJECTS.—The Secretary, in coordi-
nation with the State and the Yakama Na-
tion, may provide technical assistance for,
participate in, and enter into agreements, in-
cluding with irrigation entities for the use of
excess conveyance capacity in Yakima River
Basin Water Enhancement Project facilities,
for—
(1) groundwater recharge projects; and
(2) aquifer storage and recovery projects.
(e) OPERATIONAL CONTROL OF WATER SUP-
PLIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall retain
authority and discretion over the manage-
ment of Yakima River Basin Water Enhance-
ment Project supplies—
(A) to optimize operational use and flexi-
bility; and
(B) to ensure compliance with all applica-
ble Federal and State laws, treaty rights of
the Yakama Nation, and legal obligations,
including those under title XII of Public Law
103–434 (108 Stat. 4550; 114 Stat. 1425).
(2) INCLUSION.—The authority and discre-
tion described in paragraph (1) shall include
the ability of the United States to store, de-
liver, conserve, and reuse water supplies de-
riving from projects authorized under title
XII of Public Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4550; 114
Stat. 1425).
(f) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS AND
GRANTS.—The Secretary may enter into co-
operative agreements and make grants to
carry out this section, including for the pur-
poses of land and water transfers, leases, and
acquisitions from willing participants, sub-
ject to the condition that the acquiring enti-
ty shall hold title to, and be responsible for,
all required operation, maintenance, and
management of the acquired land or water
during any period in which the acquiring en-
tity holds title to the acquired land.
(g) WATER CONSERVATION PROJECTS.—The
Secretary may participate in, provide fund-
ing for, and accept non-Federal financing for
water conservation projects, regardless of
whether the projects are in accordance with
the Yakima River Basin Water Conservation
Program established under section 1203 of
Public Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4551), that are
intended to partially implement the Inte-
grated Plan by providing conserved water to
improve tributary and mainstem stream
flow.
(h) INDIAN IRRIGATION PROJECTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, acting
through the Commissioner of Reclamation,
may contribute funds for the preparation of
plans and investigation measures, and, after
the date on which the Secretary certifies
that the measures are consistent with the
water conservation objectives of this section,
to any Indian irrigation project—
(A) that is located in the Pacific Northwest
Region;
(B) that is identified in the report of the
Government Accountability Office numbered
GAO–15–453T;
(C) that has been identified as part of a Bu-
reau of Reclamation basin study pursuant to
subtitle F of title IX of Public Law 111–11 (42
U.S.C. 10361 et seq.) to increase water supply
for the Pacific Northwest Region; and
(D) an improvement to which would con-
tribute to the flow of interstate water.
(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this subsection $75,000,000.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1095
February 7, 2019
SEC. 8202. MODIFICATION OF PURPOSES AND
DEFINITIONS.
(a) PURPOSES.—Section 1201 of Public Law
103–434 (108 Stat. 4550) is amended—
(1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(1) to protect, mitigate, and enhance fish
and wildlife and the recovery and mainte-
nance of self-sustaining harvestable popu-
lations of fish and other aquatic life, both
anadromous and resident species, throughout
their historic distribution range in the Yak-
ima Basin through—
‘‘(A) improved water management and the
constructions of fish passage at storage and
diversion dams, as authorized under the Hoo-
ver Power Plant Act of 1984 (43 U.S.C. 619 et
seq.);
‘‘(B) improved instream flows and water
supplies;
‘‘(C) improved water quality, watershed,
and ecosystem function;
‘‘(D) protection, creation, and enhance-
ment of wetlands; and
‘‘(E) other appropriate means of habitat
improvement;’’;
(2) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘, munic-
ipal, industrial, and domestic water supply
and use purposes, especially during drought
years, including reducing the frequency and
severity of water supply shortages for pro-
ratable irrigation entities’’ before the semi-
colon at the end;
(3) by striking paragraph (4);
(4) by redesignating paragraph (3) as para-
graph (4);
(5) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) to authorize the Secretary to make
water available for purchase or lease for
meeting municipal, industrial, and domestic
water supply purposes;’’;
(6) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6)
as paragraphs (6) and (8), respectively;
(7) by inserting after paragraph (4) (as re-
designated by paragraph (4)) the following:
‘‘(5) to realize sufficient water savings
from implementing the Yakima River Basin
Integrated Water Resource Management
Plan, so that not less than 85,000 acre feet of
water savings are achieved by implementing
the initial development phase of the Inte-
grated Plan pursuant to section 8201(b)(1) of
the Natural Resources Management Act, in
addition to the 165,000 acre-feet of water sav-
ings targeted through the Basin Conserva-
tion Program, as authorized on October 31,
1994;’’;
(8) in paragraph (6) (as redesignated by
paragraph (6))—
(A) by inserting ‘‘an increase in’’ before
‘‘voluntary’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
(9) by inserting after paragraph (6) (as so
redesignated) the following:
‘‘(7) to encourage an increase in the use of,
and reduce the barriers to, water transfers,
leasing, markets, and other voluntary trans-
actions among public and private entities to
enhance water management in the Yakima
River basin;’’;
(10) in paragraph (8) (as so redesignated),
by striking the period at the end and insert-
ing ‘‘; and’’; and
(11) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(9) to improve the resilience of the eco-
systems, economies, and communities in the
Yakima River basin facing drought, hydro-
logic changes, and other related changes and
variability in natural and human systems,
for the benefit of the people, fish, and wild-
life of the region.’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—Section 1202 of Public
Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4550) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (6), (7), (8),
(9), (10), (11), (12), (13), and (14) as paragraphs
(8), (10), (11), (12), (13), (14), (15), (17), and (18),
respectively;
(2) by inserting after paragraph (5) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(6) DESIGNATED FEDERAL OFFICIAL.—The
term ‘designated Federal official’ means the
Commissioner of Reclamation (or a des-
ignee), acting pursuant to the charter of the
Conservation Advisory Group.
‘‘(7) INTEGRATED PLAN.—The term ‘Inte-
grated Plan’ has the meaning given the term
in section 8201(a) of the Natural Resources
Management Act, to be carried out in co-
operation with, and in addition to, activities
of the State of Washington and the Yakama
Nation.’’;
(3) by inserting after paragraph (8) (as re-
designated by paragraph (1)) the following:
‘‘(9) MUNICIPAL, INDUSTRIAL, AND DOMESTIC
WATER SUPPLY AND USE.—The term ‘munic-
ipal, industrial, and domestic water supply
and use’ means the supply and use of water
for—
‘‘(A) domestic consumption (whether urban
or rural);
‘‘(B) maintenance and protection of public
health and safety;
‘‘(C) manufacture, fabrication, processing,
assembly, or other production of a good or
commodity;
‘‘(D) production of energy;
‘‘(E) fish hatcheries; or
‘‘(F) water conservation activities relating
to a use described in subparagraphs (A)
through (E).’’; and
(4) by inserting after paragraph (15) (as so
redesignated) the following:
‘‘(16) YAKIMA ENHANCEMENT PROJECT; YAK-
IMA RIVER BASIN WATER ENHANCEMENT
PROJECT.—The terms ‘Yakima Enhancement
Project’ and ‘Yakima River Basin Water En-
hancement Project’ mean the Yakima River
basin water enhancement project authorized
by Congress pursuant to this Act and other
Acts (including Public Law 96–162 (93 Stat.
1241), section 109 of Public Law 98–381 (16
U.S.C. 839b note; 98 Stat. 1340), Public Law
105–62 (111 Stat. 1320), and Public Law 106–372
(114 Stat. 1425)) to promote water conserva-
tion, water supply, habitat, and stream en-
hancement improvements in the Yakima
River basin.’’.
SEC. 8203. YAKIMA RIVER BASIN WATER CON-
SERVATION PROGRAM.
Section 1203 of Public Law 103–434 (108
Stat. 4551) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘title’’ and inserting ‘‘section’’; and
(ii) in the third sentence, by striking
‘‘within 5 years of the date of enactment of
this Act’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘irriga-
tion’’ and inserting ‘‘the number of irrigated
acres’’;
(2) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in each of subparagraphs (A) through
(D), by striking the comma at the end of the
subparagraph and inserting a semicolon;
(ii) in subparagraph (E), by striking the
comma at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’;
(iii) in subparagraph (F), by striking ‘‘De-
partment of Wildlife of the State of Wash-
ington, and’’ and inserting ‘‘Department of
Fish and Wildlife of the State of Wash-
ington.’’; and
(iv) by striking subparagraph (G);
(B) in paragraph (3)—
(i) in each of subparagraphs (A) through
(C), by striking the comma at the end of the
subparagraph and inserting a semicolon;
(ii) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘,
and’’ at the end and inserting a semicolon;
(iii) in subparagraph (E), by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iv) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(F) provide recommendations to advance
the purposes and programs of the Yakima
Enhancement Project, including the Inte-
grated Plan.’’; and
(C) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(4) AUTHORITY OF DESIGNATED FEDERAL OF-
FICIAL.—The designated Federal official
may—
‘‘(A) arrange and provide logistical support
for meetings of the Conservation Advisory
Group;
‘‘(B) use a facilitator to serve as a moder-
ator for meetings of the Conservation Advi-
sory Group or provide additional logistical
support; and
‘‘(C) grant any request for a facilitator by
any member of the Conservation Advisory
Group.’’;
(3) in subsection (d), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(4) PAYMENT OF LOCAL SHARE BY STATE OR
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The State or the Fed-
eral Government may fund not more than
the 17.5-percent local share of the costs of
the Basin Conservation Program in exchange
for the long-term use of conserved water,
subject to the requirement that the funding
by the Federal Government of the local
share of the costs shall provide a quantifi-
able public benefit in meeting Federal re-
sponsibilities in the Yakima River basin and
the purposes of this title.
‘‘(B) USE OF CONSERVED WATER.—The Yak-
ima Project Manager may use water result-
ing from conservation measures taken under
this title, in addition to water that the Bu-
reau of Reclamation may acquire from any
willing seller through purchase, donation, or
lease, for water management uses pursuant
to this title.’’;
(4) in subsection (e), by striking the first
sentence and inserting the following: ‘‘To
participate in the Basin Conservation Pro-
gram, as described in subsection (b), an enti-
ty shall submit to the Secretary a proposed
water conservation plan.’’;
(5) in subsection (i)(3)—
(A) by striking ‘‘purchase or lease’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘purchase,
lease, or management’’; and
(B) in the third sentence, by striking
‘‘made immediately upon availability’’ and
all that follows through ‘‘Committee’’ and
inserting ‘‘continued as needed to provide
water to be used by the Yakima Project
Manager as recommended by the System Op-
erations Advisory Committee and the Con-
servation Advisory Group’’; and
(6) in subsection (j)(4), in the first sen-
tence, by striking ‘‘initial acquisition’’ and
all that follows through ‘‘flushing flows’’ and
inserting ‘‘acquisition of water from willing
sellers or lessors specifically to provide im-
proved instream flows for anadromous and
resident fish and other aquatic life, including
pulse flows to facilitate outward migration
of anadromous fish’’.
SEC. 8204. YAKIMA BASIN WATER PROJECTS, OP-
ERATIONS, AND AUTHORIZATIONS.
(a) REDESIGNATION OF YAKAMA NATION.—
Section 1204(g) of Public Law 103–434 (108
Stat. 4557) is amended—
(1) by striking the subsection designation
and heading and all that follows through
paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
‘‘(g) REDESIGNATION OF YAKAMA INDIAN NA-
TION TO YAKAMA NATION.—
‘‘(1) REDESIGNATION.—The Confederated
Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Indian Na-
tion shall be known and designated as the
‘Confederated Tribes and Bands of the
Yakama Nation’.’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘deemed to
be a reference to the ‘Confederated Tribes
and Bands of the Yakama Indian Nation’.’’
and inserting ‘‘deemed to be a reference to
the ‘Confederated Tribes and Bands of the
Yakama Nation’.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1096 February 7, 2019
(b) OPERATION OF YAKIMA BASIN
PROJECTS.—Section 1205 of Public Law 103–
434 (108 Stat. 4557) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(4)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) in clause (i)—
(I) by inserting ‘‘additional’’ after ‘‘se-
cure’’;
(II) by striking ‘‘flushing’’ and inserting
‘‘pulse’’; and
(III) by striking ‘‘uses’’ and inserting
‘‘uses, in addition to the quantity of water
provided under the treaty between the
Yakama Nation and the United States’’;
(ii) by striking clause (ii);
(iii) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause
(ii); and
(iv) in clause (ii) (as so redesignated) by in-
serting ‘‘and water rights mandated’’ after
‘‘goals’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B)(i), in the first sen-
tence, by inserting ‘‘in proportion to the
funding received’’ after ‘‘Program’’;
(2) in subsection (b), in the second sen-
tence, by striking ‘‘instream flows for use by
the Yakima Project Manager as flushing
flows or as otherwise’’ and inserting ‘‘fishery
purposes, as’’; and
(3) in subsection (e), by striking paragraph
(1) and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Additional purposes of
the Yakima Project shall be any of the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) To recover and maintain self-sus-
taining harvestable populations of native
fish, both anadromous and resident species,
throughout their historic distribution range
in the Yakima River basin.
‘‘(B) To protect, mitigate, and enhance
aquatic life and wildlife.
‘‘(C) Recreation.
‘‘(D) Municipal, industrial, and domestic
use.’’.
(c) ENHANCEMENT OF WATER SUPPLIES FOR
YAKIMA BASIN TRIBUTARIES.—Section 1207 of
Public Law 103–434 (108 Stat. 4560) is amend-
ed—
(1) in the section heading, by striking
‘‘SUPPLIES’’ and inserting ‘‘MANAGEMENT’’;
(2) in subsection (a)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by striking ‘‘supplies’’ and inserting ‘‘man-
agement’’;
(B) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘and
water supply entities’’ after ‘‘owners’’; and
(C) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘that
choose not to participate in, or opt out of,
tributary enhancement projects pursuant to
this section’’ after ‘‘water right owners’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘non-
participating’’ before ‘‘tributary water
users’’;
(3) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking the paragraph designation
and all that follows through ‘‘(but not lim-
ited to)—’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, following
consultation with the State of Washington,
tributary water right owners, and the
Yakama Nation, and on agreement of appro-
priate water right owners, is authorized to
conduct studies to evaluate measures to fur-
ther Yakima Project purposes on tributaries
to the Yakima River. Enhancement pro-
grams that use measures authorized by this
subsection may be investigated and imple-
mented by the Secretary in tributaries to
the Yakima River, including Taneum Creek,
other areas, or tributary basins that cur-
rently or could potentially be provided sup-
plemental or transfer water by entities, such
as the Kittitas Reclamation District or the
Yakima-Tieton Irrigation District, subject
to the condition that activities may com-
mence on completion of applicable and re-
quired feasibility studies, environmental re-
views, and cost-benefit analyses that include
favorable recommendations for further
project development, as appropriate. Meas-
ures to evaluate include—’’;
(ii) by indenting subparagraphs (A)
through (F) appropriately;
(iii) in subparagraph (A), by inserting be-
fore the semicolon at the end the following:
‘‘, including irrigation efficiency improve-
ments (in coordination with programs of the
Department of Agriculture), consolidation of
diversions or administration, and diversion
scheduling or coordination’’;
(iv) by redesignating subparagraphs (C)
through (F) as subparagraphs (E) through
(H), respectively;
(v) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the
following:
‘‘(C) improvements in irrigation system
management or delivery facilities within the
Yakima River basin when those improve-
ments allow for increased irrigation system
conveyance and corresponding reduction in
diversion from tributaries or flow enhance-
ments to tributaries through direct flow sup-
plementation or groundwater recharge;
‘‘(D) improvements of irrigation system
management or delivery facilities to reduce
or eliminate excessively high flows caused
by the use of natural streams for conveyance
or irrigation water or return water;’’;
(vi) in subparagraph (E) (as redesignated
by clause (iv)), by striking ‘‘ground water’’
and inserting ‘‘groundwater recharge and’’;
(vii) in subparagraph (G) (as so redesig-
nated), by inserting ‘‘or transfer’’ after ‘‘pur-
chase’’; and
(viii) in subparagraph (H) (as so redesig-
nated), by inserting ‘‘stream processes and’’
before ‘‘stream habitats’’;
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘the Taneum Creek study’’
and inserting ‘‘studies under this sub-
section’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (B)—
(I) by striking ‘‘and economic’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘, infrastructure, economic, and land
use’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
(iii) in subparagraph (C), by striking the
period at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(iv) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(D) any related studies already underway
or undertaken.’’; and
(C) in paragraph (3), in the first sentence,
by inserting ‘‘of each tributary or group of
tributaries’’ after ‘‘study’’;
(4) in subsection (c)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by inserting
‘‘AND NONSURFACE STORAGE’’ after ‘‘NON-
STORAGE’’; and
(B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
by inserting ‘‘and nonsurface storage’’ after
‘‘nonstorage’’;
(5) by striking subsection (d);
(6) by redesignating subsection (e) as sub-
section (d); and
(7) in paragraph (2) of subsection (d) (as so
redesignated)—
(A) in the first sentence—
(i) by inserting ‘‘and implementation’’
after ‘‘investigation’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘other’’ before ‘‘Yakima
River’’; and
(iii) by inserting ‘‘and other water supply
entities’’ after ‘‘owners’’; and
(B) by striking the second sentence.
(d) CHANDLER PUMPING PLANT AND POWER-
PLANT-OPERATIONS AT PROSSER DIVERSION
DAM.—Section 1208(d) of Public Law 103–434
(108 Stat. 4562; 114 Stat. 1425) is amended by
inserting ‘‘negatively’’ before ‘‘affected’’.
Subtitle D—Bureau of Reclamation Facility
Conveyances
SEC. 8301. CONVEYANCE OF MAINTENANCE COM-
PLEX AND DISTRICT OFFICE OF THE
ARBUCKLE PROJECT, OKLAHOMA.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AGREEMENT.—The term ‘‘Agreement’’
means the agreement entitled ‘‘Agreement
between the United States and the Arbuckle
Master Conservancy District for Transfer-
ring Title to the Federally Owned Mainte-
nance Complex and District Office to the Ar-
buckle Master Conservancy District’’ and
numbered 14AG640141.
(2) DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘District’’ means
the Arbuckle Master Conservancy District,
located in Murray County, Oklahoma.
(3) DISTRICT OFFICE.—The term ‘‘District
Office’’ means—
(A) the headquarters building located at
2440 East Main, Davis, Oklahoma; and
(B) the approximately 0.83 acres of land de-
scribed in the Agreement.
(4) MAINTENANCE COMPLEX.—The term
‘‘Maintenance Complex’’ means the care-
taker’s residence, shop buildings, and any
appurtenances located on the land described
in the Agreement comprising approximately
2 acres.
(b) CONVEYANCE TO DISTRICT.—As soon as
practicable after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary shall convey to the
District, all right, title, and interest of the
United States in and to the Maintenance
Complex and District Office, Arbuckle
Project, Oklahoma, consistent with the
terms and conditions of the Agreement.
(c) LIABILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Effective on the date of
conveyance to the District of the Mainte-
nance Complex and District Office under this
section, the United States shall not be held
liable by any court for damages of any kind
arising out of any act, omission, or occur-
rence relating to the Maintenance Complex
or District Office, except for damages caused
by acts of negligence committed by the
United States or by an employee or agent of
the United States prior to the date of con-
veyance.
(2) APPLICABLE LAW.—Nothing in this sec-
tion increases the liability of the United
States beyond the liability provided in chap-
ter 171 of title 28, United States Code (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Federal Tort Claims
Act’’), on the date of enactment of this Act.
(d) BENEFITS.—After the conveyance of the
Maintenance Complex and District Office to
the District under this section—
(1) the Maintenance Complex and District
Office shall not be considered to be a part of
a Federal reclamation project; and
(2) the District shall not be eligible to re-
ceive any benefits with respect to any facil-
ity comprising that Maintenance Complex
and District Office, other than benefits that
would be available to a similarly situated
person with respect to a facility that is not
part of a Federal reclamation project.
(e) COMMUNICATION.—If the Secretary has
not completed the conveyance required
under subsection (b) by the date that is 1
year after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Secretary shall submit to Congress a let-
ter with sufficient detail that—
(1) explains the reasons the conveyance has
not been completed; and
(2) specifies the date by which the convey-
ance will be completed.
SEC. 8302. CONTRA COSTA CANAL TRANSFER.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ACQUIRED LAND.—The term ‘‘acquired
land’’ means land in Federal ownership and
land over which the Federal Government
holds an interest for the purpose of the con-
struction and operation of the Contra Costa
Canal, including land under the jurisdiction
of—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1097
February 7, 2019
(A) the Bureau of Reclamation;
(B) the Western Area Power Administra-
tion; and
(C) the Department of Defense in the case
of the Clayton Canal diversion traversing the
Concord Naval Weapons Station.
(2) CONTRA COSTA CANAL.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘Contra Costa
Canal’’ means the Contra Costa Canal Unit
of the Central Valley Project, which exclu-
sively serves the Contra Costa Water Dis-
trict in an urban area of Contra Costa Coun-
ty, California.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘Contra Costa
Canal’’ includes pipelines, conduits, pumping
plants, aqueducts, laterals, water storage
and regulatory facilities, electric sub-
stations, related works and improvements,
and all interests in land associated with the
Contra Costa Canal Unit of the Central Val-
ley Project in existence on the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(C) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘‘Contra Costa
Canal’’ does not include the Rock Slough
fish screen facility.
(3) CONTRA COSTA CANAL AGREEMENT.—The
term ‘‘Contra Costa Canal Agreement’’
means an agreement between the District
and the Bureau of Reclamation to determine
the legal, institutional, and financial terms
surrounding the transfer of the Contra Costa
Canal, including compensation to the rec-
lamation fund established by the first sec-
tion of the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388,
chapter 1093), equal to the net present value
of miscellaneous revenues that the United
States would otherwise derive over the 10
years following the date of enactment of this
Act from the eligible land and facilities to be
transferred, as governed by reclamation law
and policy and the contracts.
(4) CONTRACTS.—The term ‘‘contracts’’
means the existing water service contract
between the District and the United States,
Contract No. 175r–3401A–LTR1 (2005), Con-
tract No. 14–06–200–6072A (1972, as amended),
and any other contract or land permit in-
volving the United States, the District, and
Contra Costa Canal.
(5) DISTRICT.—The term ‘‘District’’ means
the Contra Costa Water District, a political
subdivision of the State of California.
(6) ROCK SLOUGH FISH SCREEN FACILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘Rock Slough
fish screen facility’’ means the fish screen
facility at the Rock Slough intake to the
Contra Costa Canal.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘Rock Slough
fish screen facility’’ includes the screen
structure, rake cleaning system, and acces-
sory structures integral to the screen func-
tion of the Rock Slough fish screen facility,
as required under the Central Valley Project
Improvement Act (Public Law 102–575; 106
Stat. 4706).
(7) ROCK SLOUGH FISH SCREEN FACILITY
TITLE TRANSFER AGREEMENT.—The term
‘‘Rock Slough fish screen facility title trans-
fer agreement’’ means an agreement between
the District and the Bureau of Reclamation
to—
(A) determine the legal, institutional, and
financial terms surrounding the transfer of
the Rock Slough fish screen facility; and
(B) ensure the continued safe and reliable
operations of the Rock Slough fish screen fa-
cility.
(b) CONVEYANCE OF LAND AND FACILITIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, in
consideration for the District assuming from
the United States all liability for the admin-
istration, operation, maintenance, and re-
placement of the Contra Costa Canal, con-
sistent with the terms and conditions set
forth in the Contra Costa Canal Agreement
and subject to valid existing rights and ex-
isting recreation agreements between the
Bureau of Reclamation and the East Bay Re-
gional Park District for Contra Loma Re-
gional Park and other local agencies within
the Contra Costa Canal, the Secretary shall
offer to convey and assign to the District—
(A) all right, title, and interest of the
United States in and to—
(i) the Contra Costa Canal; and
(ii) the acquired land; and
(B) all interests reserved and developed as
of the date of enactment of this Act for the
Contra Costa Canal in the acquired land, in-
cluding existing recreation agreements be-
tween the Bureau of Reclamation and the
East Bay Regional Park District for Contra
Loma Regional Park and other local agen-
cies within the Contra Costa Canal.
(2) ROCK SLOUGH FISH SCREEN FACILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
vey and assign to the District all right, title,
and interest of the United States in and to
the Rock Slough fish screen facility pursu-
ant to the Rock Slough fish screen facility
title transfer agreement.
(B) COOPERATION.—Not later than 180 days
after the conveyance of the Contra Costa
Canal, the Secretary and the District shall
enter into good faith negotiations to accom-
plish the conveyance and assignment under
subparagraph (A).
(3) PAYMENT OF COSTS.—The District shall
pay to the Secretary any administrative and
real estate transfer costs incurred by the
Secretary in carrying out the conveyances
and assignments under paragraphs (1) and
(2), including the cost of any boundary sur-
vey, title search, cadastral survey, appraisal,
and other real estate transaction required
for the conveyances and assignments.
(4) COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL
LAWS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Before carrying out the
conveyances and assignments under para-
graphs (1) and (2), the Secretary shall comply
with all applicable requirements under—
(i) the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
(ii) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.); and
(iii) any other law applicable to the Contra
Costa Canal or the acquired land.
(B) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section modi-
fies or alters any obligations under—
(i) the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); or
(ii) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16
U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
(c) RELATIONSHIP TO EXISTING CENTRAL
VALLEY PROJECT CONTRACTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section af-
fects—
(A) the application of the reclamation laws
to water delivered to the District pursuant
to any contract with the Secretary; or
(B) subject to paragraph (2), the contracts.
(2) AMENDMENTS TO CONTRACTS.—The Sec-
retary and the District may modify the con-
tracts as necessary to comply with this sec-
tion.
(3) LIABILITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), the United States shall
not be liable for damages arising out of any
act, omission, or occurrence relating to the
Contra Costa Canal or the acquired land.
(B) EXCEPTION.—The United States shall
continue to be liable for damages caused by
acts of negligence committed by the United
States or by any employee or agent of the
United States before the date of the convey-
ance and assignment under subsection (b)(1),
consistent with chapter 171 of title 28, United
States Code (commonly known as the ‘‘Fed-
eral Tort Claims Act’’).
(C) LIMITATION.—Nothing in this section
increases the liability of the United States
beyond the liability provided under chapter
171 of title 28, United States Code (commonly
known as the ‘‘Federal Tort Claims Act’’).
(d) REPORT.—If the conveyance and assign-
ment authorized by subsection (b)(1) is not
completed by the date that is 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall submit to Congress a report
that—
(1) describes the status of the conveyance
and assignment;
(2) describes any obstacles to completing
the conveyance and assignment; and
(3) specifies an anticipated date for com-
pletion of the conveyance and assignment.
Subtitle E—Project Authorizations
SEC. 8401. EXTENSION OF EQUUS BEDS DIVISION
OF THE WICHITA PROJECT.
Section 10(h) of Public Law 86–787 (74 Stat.
1026; 120 Stat. 1474) is amended by striking
‘‘10 years’’ and inserting ‘‘20 years’’.
Subtitle F—Modifications of Existing
Programs
SEC. 8501. WATERSMART.
Section 9504 of the Omnibus Public Land
Management Act of 2009 (42 U.S.C. 10364) is
amended in subsection (a)—
(1) in paragraph (2)(A)—
(A) by striking ‘‘within the States’’ and in-
serting the following: ‘‘within—
‘‘(i) the States’’;
(B) in clause (i) (as so designated), by
striking ‘‘and’’ at the end; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) the State of Alaska; or
‘‘(iii) the State of Hawaii; and’’; and
(2) in paragraph (3)(B)—
(A) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as
subclauses (I) and (II), respectively, and in-
denting appropriately;
(B) in the matter preceding subclause (I)
(as so redesignated), by striking ‘‘In car-
rying’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), in carrying’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) INDIAN TRIBES.—In the case of an eligi-
ble applicant that is an Indian tribe, in car-
rying out paragraph (1), the Secretary shall
not provide a grant, or enter into an agree-
ment, for an improvement to conserve irriga-
tion water unless the Indian tribe agrees
not—
‘‘(I) to use any associated water savings to
increase the total irrigated acreage more
than the water right of that Indian tribe, as
determined by—
‘‘(aa) a court decree;
‘‘(bb) a settlement;
‘‘(cc) a law; or
‘‘(dd) any combination of the authorities
described in items (aa) through (cc); or
‘‘(II) to otherwise increase the consump-
tive use of water more than the water right
of the Indian tribe described in subclause
(I).’’.
Subtitle G—Bureau of Reclamation
Transparency
SEC. 8601. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) ASSET.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘asset’’ means
any of the following assets that are used to
achieve the mission of the Bureau to man-
age, develop, and protect water and related
resources in an environmentally and eco-
nomically sound manner in the interest of
the people of the United States:
(i) Capitalized facilities, buildings, struc-
tures, project features, power production
equipment, recreation facilities, or quarters.
(ii) Capitalized and noncapitalized heavy
equipment and other installed equipment.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘asset’’ includes
assets described in subparagraph (A) that are
considered to be mission critical.
(2) ASSET MANAGEMENT REPORT.—The term
‘‘Asset Management Report’’ means—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1098 February 7, 2019
(A) the annual plan prepared by the Bureau
known as the ‘‘Asset Management Plan’’;
and
(B) any publicly available information re-
lating to the plan described in subparagraph
(A) that summarizes the efforts of the Bu-
reau to evaluate and manage infrastructure
assets of the Bureau.
(3) MAJOR REPAIR AND REHABILITATION
NEED.—The term ‘‘major repair and rehabili-
tation need’’ means major nonrecurring
maintenance at a Reclamation facility, in-
cluding maintenance related to the safety of
dams, extraordinary maintenance of dams,
deferred major maintenance activities, and
all other significant repairs and extraor-
dinary maintenance.
SEC. 8602. ASSET MANAGEMENT REPORT EN-
HANCEMENTS FOR RESERVED
WORKS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall submit to Congress an Asset
Management Report that—
(1) describes the efforts of the Bureau—
(A) to maintain in a reliable manner all re-
served works at Reclamation facilities; and
(B) to standardize and streamline data re-
porting and processes across regions and
areas for the purpose of maintaining re-
served works at Reclamation facilities; and
(2) expands on the information otherwise
provided in an Asset Management Report, in
accordance with subsection (b).
(b) INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE NEEDS
ASSESSMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Asset Management
Report submitted under subsection (a) shall
include—
(A) a detailed assessment of major repair
and rehabilitation needs for all reserved
works at all Reclamation projects; and
(B) to the maximum extent practicable, an
itemized list of major repair and rehabilita-
tion needs of individual Reclamation facili-
ties at each Reclamation project.
(2) INCLUSIONS.—To the maximum extent
practicable, the itemized list of major repair
and rehabilitation needs under paragraph
(1)(B) shall include—
(A) a budget level cost estimate of the ap-
propriations needed to complete each item;
and
(B) an assignment of a categorical rating
for each item, consistent with paragraph (3).
(3) RATING REQUIREMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The system for assigning
ratings under paragraph (2)(B) shall be—
(i) consistent with existing uniform cat-
egorization systems to inform the annual
budget process and agency requirements; and
(ii) subject to the guidance and instruc-
tions issued under subparagraph (B).
(B) GUIDANCE.—As soon as practicable after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall issue guidance that describes
the applicability of the rating system appli-
cable under paragraph (2)(B) to Reclamation
facilities.
(4) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Except as pro-
vided in paragraph (5), the Secretary shall
make publicly available, including on the
internet, the Asset Management Report re-
quired under subsection (a).
(5) CONFIDENTIALITY.—The Secretary may
exclude from the public version of the Asset
Management Report made available under
paragraph (4) any information that the Sec-
retary identifies as sensitive or classified,
but shall make available to the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources of the Sen-
ate and the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives a version of
the report containing the sensitive or classi-
fied information.
(c) UPDATES.—Not later than 2 years after
the date on which the Asset Management Re-
port is submitted under subsection (a) and
biennially thereafter, the Secretary shall up-
date the Asset Management Report, subject
to the requirements of section 8603(b)(2).
(d) CONSULTATION.—To the extent that
such consultation would assist the Secretary
in preparing the Asset Management Report
under subsection (a) and updates to the
Asset Management Report under subsection
(c), the Secretary shall consult with—
(1) the Secretary of the Army (acting
through the Chief of Engineers); and
(2) water and power contractors.
SEC. 8603. ASSET MANAGEMENT REPORT EN-
HANCEMENTS FOR TRANSFERRED
WORKS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall co-
ordinate with the non-Federal entities re-
sponsible for the operation and maintenance
of transferred works in developing reporting
requirements for Asset Management Reports
with respect to major repair and rehabilita-
tion needs for transferred works that are
similar to the reporting requirements de-
scribed in section 8602(b).
(b) GUIDANCE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—After considering input
from water and power contractors of the Bu-
reau, the Secretary shall develop and imple-
ment a rating system for transferred works
that incorporates, to the maximum extent
practicable, the rating system for major re-
pair and rehabilitation needs for reserved
works developed under section 8602(b)(3).
(2) UPDATES.—The ratings system devel-
oped under paragraph (1) shall be included in
the updated Asset Management Reports
under section 8602(c).
TITLE IX—MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 9001. EVERY KID OUTDOORS ACT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) FEDERAL LAND AND WATERS.—The term
‘‘Federal land and waters’’ means any Fed-
eral land or body of water under the jurisdic-
tion of any of the Secretaries to which the
public has access.
(2) PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘program’’ means
the Every Kid Outdoors program established
under subsection (b)(1).
(3) SECRETARIES.—The term ‘‘Secretaries’’
means—
(A) the Secretary, acting through—
(i) the Director of the National Park Serv-
ice;
(ii) the Director of the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service;
(iii) the Director of the Bureau of Land
Management; and
(iv) the Commissioner of Reclamation;
(B) the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service;
(C) the Secretary of Commerce, acting
through the Administrator of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration;
and
(D) the Secretary of the Army, acting
through the Assistant Secretary of the Army
for Civil Works.
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means each
of the several States, the District of Colum-
bia, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern
Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Is-
lands of the United States, and any other
territory or possession of the United States.
(5) STUDENT OR STUDENTS.—The term ‘‘stu-
dent’’ or ‘‘students’’ means any fourth grader
or home-schooled learner 10 years of age re-
siding in the United States, including any
territory or possession of the United States.
(b) EVERY KID OUTDOORS PROGRAM.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretaries shall
jointly establish a program, to be known as
the ‘‘Every Kid Outdoors program’’, to pro-
vide free access to Federal land and waters
for students and accompanying individuals
in accordance with this subsection.
(2) ANNUAL PASSES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—At the request of a stu-
dent, the Secretaries shall issue a pass to the
student, which allows access to Federal
lands and waters for which access is subject
to an entrance, standard amenity, or day use
fee, free of charge for the student and—
(i) in the case of a per-vehicle fee area—
(I) any passengers accompanying the stu-
dent in a private, noncommercial vehicle; or
(II) not more than three adults accom-
panying the student on bicycles; or
(ii) in the case of a per-person fee area, not
more than three adults accompanying the
student.
(B) TERM.—A pass described in subpara-
graph (A) shall be effective during the period
beginning on September 1 and ending on Au-
gust 31 of the following year.
(C) PRESENCE OF A STUDENT IN GRADE FOUR
REQUIRED.—A pass described in subparagraph
(A) shall be effective only if the student to
which the pass was issued is present at the
point of entry to the applicable Federal land
or water.
(3) OTHER ACTIVITIES.—In carrying out the
program, the Secretaries—
(A) may collaborate with State Park sys-
tems that opt to implement a complemen-
tary Every Kid Outdoors State park pass;
(B) may coordinate with the Secretary of
Education to implement the program;
(C) shall maintain a publicly available
website with information about the program;
(D) may provide visitor services for the
program; and
(E) may support approved partners of the
Federal land and waters by providing the
partners with opportunities to participate in
the program.
(4) REPORTS.—The Secretary, in coordina-
tion with each Secretary described in sub-
paragraphs (B) through (D) of subsection
(a)(3), shall prepare a comprehensive report
to Congress each year describing—
(A) the implementation of the program;
(B) the number and geographical distribu-
tion of students who participated in the pro-
gram; and
(C) the number of passes described in para-
graph (2)(A) that were distributed.
(5) SUNSET.—The authorities provided in
this section, including the reporting require-
ment, shall expire on the date that is 7 years
after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 9002. GOOD SAMARITAN SEARCH AND RE-
COVERY ACT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ELIGIBLE.—The term ‘‘eligible’’, with re-
spect to an organization or individual, means
that the organization or individual, respec-
tively, is—
(A) acting in a not-for-profit capacity; and
(B) composed entirely of members who, at
the time of the good Samaritan search-and-
recovery mission, have attained the age of
majority under the law of the State where
the mission takes place.
(2) GOOD SAMARITAN SEARCH-AND-RECOVERY
MISSION.—The term ‘‘good Samaritan search-
and-recovery mission’’ means a search con-
ducted by an eligible organization or indi-
vidual for 1 or more missing individuals be-
lieved to be deceased at the time that the
search is initiated.
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary or the Secretary of Ag-
riculture, as applicable.
(b) PROCESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each Secretary shall de-
velop and implement a process to expedite
access to Federal land under the administra-
tive jurisdiction of the Secretary for eligible
organizations and individuals to request ac-
cess to Federal land to conduct good Samari-
tan search-and-recovery missions.
(2) INCLUSIONS.—The process developed and
implemented under this subsection shall in-
clude provisions to clarify that—
(A) an eligible organization or individual
granted access under this section—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1099
February 7, 2019
(i) shall be acting for private purposes; and
(ii) shall not be considered to be a Federal
volunteer;
(B) an eligible organization or individual
conducting a good Samaritan search-and-re-
covery mission under this section shall not
be considered to be a volunteer under section
102301(c) of title 54, United States Code;
(C) chapter 171 of title 28, United States
Code (commonly known as the ‘‘Federal Tort
Claims Act’’), shall not apply to an eligible
organization or individual carrying out a pri-
vately requested good Samaritan search-and-
recovery mission under this section; and
(D) chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code
(commonly known as the ‘‘Federal Employ-
ees Compensation Act’’), shall not apply to
an eligible organization or individual con-
ducting a good Samaritan search-and-recov-
ery mission under this section, and the con-
duct of the good Samaritan search-and-re-
covery mission shall not constitute civilian
employment.
(c) RELEASE OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
FROM LIABILITY.—The Secretary shall not re-
quire an eligible organization or individual
to have liability insurance as a condition of
accessing Federal land under this section, if
the eligible organization or individual—
(1) acknowledges and consents, in writing,
to the provisions described in subparagraphs
(A) through (D) of subsection (b)(2); and
(2) signs a waiver releasing the Federal
Government from all liability relating to the
access granted under this section and agrees
to indemnify and hold harmless the United
States from any claims or lawsuits arising
from any conduct by the eligible organiza-
tion or individual on Federal land.
(d) APPROVAL AND DENIAL OF REQUESTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall notify
an eligible organization or individual of the
approval or denial of a request by the eligi-
ble organization or individual to carry out a
good Samaritan search-and-recovery mission
under this section by not later than 48 hours
after the request is made.
(2) DENIALS.—If the Secretary denies a re-
quest from an eligible organization or indi-
vidual to carry out a good Samaritan search-
and-recovery mission under this section, the
Secretary shall notify the eligible organiza-
tion or individual of—
(A) the reason for the denial of the request;
and
(B) any actions that the eligible organiza-
tion or individual can take to meet the re-
quirements for the request to be approved.
(e) PARTNERSHIPS.—Each Secretary shall
develop search-and-recovery-focused partner-
ships with search-and-recovery organiza-
tions—
(1) to coordinate good Samaritan search-
and-recovery missions on Federal land under
the administrative jurisdiction of the Sec-
retary; and
(2) to expedite and accelerate good Samari-
tan search-and-recovery mission efforts for
missing individuals on Federal land under
the administrative jurisdiction of the Sec-
retary.
(f) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secre-
taries shall submit to Congress a joint report
describing—
(1) plans to develop partnerships described
in subsection (e)(1); and
(2) efforts carried out to expedite and ac-
celerate good Samaritan search-and-recov-
ery mission efforts for missing individuals on
Federal land under the administrative juris-
diction of each Secretary pursuant to sub-
section (e)(2).
SEC. 9003. 21ST CENTURY CONSERVATION SERV-
ICE CORPS ACT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—Section 203 of the Public
Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1722) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘under sec-
tion 204’’ and inserting ‘‘by section 204(a)(1)’’;
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (8) through
(13) as paragraphs (9) through (14), respec-
tively;
(3) by inserting after paragraph (7) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(8) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘institution of
higher education’ has the meaning given the
term in section 102 of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002).
‘‘(B) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘institution of
higher education’ does not include—
‘‘(i) an institution described in section
101(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1001(b)); or
‘‘(ii) an institution outside the United
States, as described in section 102(a)(1)(C) of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1002(a)(1)(C)).’’;
(4) in paragraph (9) (as so redesignated)—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘, as follows’’ and inserting
‘‘and other conservation and restoration ini-
tiatives, as follows’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(E) To protect, restore, or enhance ma-
rine, estuarine, riverine, and coastal habitat
ecosystem components—
‘‘(i) to promote the recovery of threatened
species, endangered species, and managed
fisheries;
‘‘(ii) to restore fisheries, protected re-
sources, and habitats impacted by oil and
chemical spills and natural disasters; or
‘‘(iii) to enhance the resilience of coastal
ecosystems, communities, and economies
through habitat conservation.’’;
(5) in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (11)
(as so redesignated), by striking ‘‘individuals
between the ages of 16 and 30, inclusive,’’ and
inserting ‘‘individuals between the ages of 16
and 30, inclusive, or veterans age 35 or
younger’’;
(6) in paragraph (13) (as so redesignated)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) with respect to the National Marine
Sanctuary System, coral reefs, and other
coastal, estuarine, and marine habitats, and
other land and facilities administered by the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration, the Secretary of Commerce.’’; and
(7) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(15) VETERAN.—The term ‘veteran’ has the
meaning given the term in section 101 of
title 38, United States Code.’’.
(b) PUBLIC LANDS CORPS PROGRAM.—Sec-
tion 204 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993
(16 U.S.C. 1723) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PUBLIC LANDS
CORPS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established in
the Department of the Interior, the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and the Department of
Commerce a corps, to be known as the ‘Pub-
lic Lands Corps’.
‘‘(2) NO EFFECT ON OTHER AGENCIES.—Noth-
ing in this subsection precludes the estab-
lishment of a public lands corps by the head
of a Federal department or agency other
than a department described in paragraph
(1), in accordance with this Act.’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘indi-
viduals between the ages of 16 and 30, inclu-
sive,’’ and inserting ‘‘individuals between the
ages of 16 and 30, inclusive, and veterans age
35 or younger’’; and
(B) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘section 137(b) of the National and Commu-
nity Service Act of 1990’’ and inserting
‘‘paragraphs (1), (2), (4), and (5) of section
137(a) of the National and Community Serv-
ice Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12591(a))’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(g) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section au-
thorizes the use of the Public Lands Corps
for projects on or impacting real property
owned by, operated by, or within the cus-
tody, control, or administrative jurisdiction
of the Administrator of General Services
without the express permission of the Ad-
ministrator of General Services.’’.
(c) TRANSPORTATION.—Section 205 of the
Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C.
1724) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(e) TRANSPORTATION.—The Secretary may
provide to Corps participants who reside in
their own homes transportation to and from
appropriate conservation project sites.’’.
(d) RESOURCE ASSISTANTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 206(a) of the Pub-
lic Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1725(a))
is amended by striking the first sentence and
inserting the following: ‘‘The Secretary may
provide individual placements of resource as-
sistants to carry out research or resource
protection activities on behalf of the Sec-
retary.’’.
(2) DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY.—Section 121(a)
of the Department of the Interior, Environ-
ment, and Related Agencies Appropriations
Act, 2012 (16 U.S.C. 1725a), is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘Secretary of the Interior’’
and inserting ‘‘Secretary (as defined in sec-
tion 203 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993
(16 U.S.C. 1722))’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘paragraph (1)’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘paragraph (2)’’; and
(iii) by striking ‘‘with a land managing
agency of the Department of the Interior’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ‘‘with a
land managing agency’’ and inserting ‘‘with
the Secretary (as so defined)’’.
(e) COMPENSATION AND EMPLOYMENT STAND-
ARDS.—Section 207 of the Public Lands Corps
Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1726) is amended—
(1) by striking the section heading and in-
serting ‘‘COMPENSATION AND TERMS OF SERV-
ICE’’;
(2) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c)
as subsections (c) and (d), respectively;
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) EDUCATIONAL CREDIT.—The Secretary
may provide a Corps participant with an edu-
cational credit that may be applied toward a
program of postsecondary education at an
institution of higher education that agrees
to award the credit for participation in the
Corps.’’;
(4) in subsection (c) (as so redesignated)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Each participant’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each participant’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) INDIAN YOUTH SERVICE CORPS.—With re-
spect to the Indian Youth Service Corps es-
tablished under section 210, the Secretary
shall establish the term of service of partici-
pants in consultation with the affected In-
dian tribe.’’;
(5) in subsection (d) (as so redesignated)—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2)
as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively,
and indenting the subparagraphs appro-
priately;
(B) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A) (as so redesignated), by striking ‘‘The
Secretary’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) TIME-LIMITED APPOINTMENT.—For pur-
poses of section 9602 of title 5, United States
Code, a former member of the Corps hired by
the Secretary under paragraph (1)(B) for a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1100 February 7, 2019
time-limited appointment shall be consid-
ered to be appointed initially under open,
competitive examination.’’; and
(6) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) APPLICABILITY TO QUALIFIED YOUTH OR
CONSERVATION CORPS.—The hiring and com-
pensation standards described in this section
shall apply to any individual participating in
an appropriate conservation project through
a qualified youth or conservation corps, in-
cluding an individual placed through a con-
tract or cooperative agreement, as approved
by the Secretary.’’.
(f) REPORTING AND DATA COLLECTION.—
Title II of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993
(16 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.) is amended—
(1) by redesignating sections 209 through
211 as sections 211 through 213, respectively;
(2) by inserting after section 208 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 209. REPORTING AND DATA COLLECTION.
‘‘(a) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of the Natural Re-
sources Management Act, and annually
thereafter, the Chief Executive Officer of the
Corporation for National and Community
Service, in coordination with the Secre-
taries, shall submit to Congress a report that
includes data on the Corps, including—
‘‘(1) the number of participants enrolled in
the Corps and the length of the term of serv-
ice for each participant;
‘‘(2) the projects carried out by Corps par-
ticipants, categorized by type of project and
Federal agency;
‘‘(3) the total amount and sources of fund-
ing provided for the service of participants;
‘‘(4) the type of service performed by par-
ticipants and the impact and accomplish-
ments of the service; and
‘‘(5) any other similar data determined to
be appropriate by the Chief Executive Officer
of the Corporation for National and Commu-
nity Service or the Secretaries.
‘‘(b) DATA.—Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of the Natural Resources
Management Act, and annually thereafter,
the Secretaries shall submit to the Chief Ex-
ecutive Officer of the Corporation for Na-
tional and Community Service the data de-
scribed in subsection (a).
‘‘(c) DATA COLLECTION.—The Chief Execu-
tive Officer of the Corporation for National
and Community Service may coordinate
with qualified youth or conservation corps to
improve the collection of the required data
described in subsection (a).
‘‘(d) COORDINATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries shall, to
the maximum extent practicable, coordinate
with each other to carry out activities au-
thorized under this Act, including—
‘‘(A) the data collection and reporting re-
quirements of this section; and
‘‘(B) implementing and issuing guidance on
eligibility for noncompetitive hiring status
under section 207(d).
‘‘(2) DESIGNATION OF COORDINATORS.—The
Secretary shall designate a coordinator to
coordinate and serve as the primary point of
contact for any activity of the Corps carried
out by the Secretary.’’; and
(3) in subsection (c) of section 212 (as so re-
designated), by striking ‘‘211’’ and inserting
‘‘213’’.
(g) INDIAN YOUTH SERVICE CORPS.—Title II
of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1721 et seq.) (as amended by sub-
section (f)) is amended by inserting after sec-
tion 209 the following:
‘‘SEC. 210. INDIAN YOUTH SERVICE CORPS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is established
within the Public Lands Corps a program to
be known as the ‘Indian Youth Service
Corps’ that—
‘‘(1) enrolls participants between the ages
of 16 and 30, inclusive, and veterans age 35 or
younger, a majority of whom are Indians;
‘‘(2) is established pursuant to an agree-
ment between an Indian tribe and a qualified
youth or conservation corps for the benefit
of the members of the Indian tribe; and
‘‘(3) carries out appropriate conservation
projects on eligible service land.
‘‘(b) AUTHORIZATION OF COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENTS.—The Secretary may enter into
cooperative agreements with Indian tribes
and qualified youth or conservation corps for
the establishment and administration of the
Indian Youth Service Corps.
‘‘(c) GUIDELINES.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of enactment of the Natural
Resources Management Act, the Secretary of
the Interior, in consultation with Indian
tribes, shall issue guidelines for the manage-
ment of the Indian Youth Service Corps, in
accordance with this Act and any other ap-
plicable Federal laws.’’.
SEC. 9004. NATIONAL NORDIC MUSEUM ACT.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The Nordic Museum lo-
cated at 2655 N.W. Market Street, Seattle,
Washington, is designated as the ‘‘National
Nordic Museum’’.
(b) EFFECT OF DESIGNATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The museum designated
by subsection (a) is not a unit of the Na-
tional Park System.
(2) USE OF FEDERAL FUNDS.—The designa-
tion of the museum by subsection (a) shall
not require Federal funds to be expended for
any purpose related to the museum.
SEC. 9005. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL GEORGE
C. MARSHALL MUSEUM AND LI-
BRARY.
(a) DESIGNATION.—The George C. Marshall
Museum and the George C. Marshall Re-
search Library in Lexington, Virginia, are
designated as the ‘‘National George C. Mar-
shall Museum and Library’’ (referred to in
this section as the ‘‘museum)’’.
(b) EFFECT OF DESIGNATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The museum designated
by subsection (a) is not a unit of the Na-
tional Park System.
(2) USE OF FEDERAL FUNDS.—The designa-
tion of the museum by subsection (a) shall
not require Federal funds to be expended for
any purpose related to the museum.
SEC. 9006. 21ST CENTURY RESPECT ACT.
(a) AMENDMENTS TO REGULATIONS RE-
QUIRED.—
(1) SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE.—The Sec-
retary of Agriculture shall amend section
1901.202 of title 7, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, for purposes of—
(A) replacing the reference to the term
‘‘Negro or Black’’ with ‘‘Black or African
American’’;
(B) replacing the reference to the term
‘‘Spanish Surname’’ with ‘‘Hispanic’’; and
(C) replacing the reference to the term
‘‘Oriental’’ with ‘‘Asian American or Pacific
Islander’’.
(2) ADMINISTRATOR OF GENERAL SERVICES.—
The Administrator of General Services shall
amend section 906.2 of title 36, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, for purposes of—
(A) replacing the references to the term
‘‘Negro’’ with ‘‘Black or African American’’;
(B) replacing the definition of ‘‘Negro’’
with the definition of ‘‘Black or African
American’’ as ‘‘ an individual having origins
in any of the Black racial groups of Africa’’;
(C) replacing the references to the term
‘‘Oriental’’ with ‘‘Asian American or Pacific
Islander’’; and
(D) replacing the references to the terms
‘‘Eskimo’’ and ‘‘Aleut’’ with ‘‘Alaska Na-
tive’’.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section, or the amendments required by
this section, shall be construed to affect Fed-
eral law, except with respect to the use of
terms by the Secretary of Agriculture and
the Administrator of General Services, re-
spectively, to the regulations affected by
this section.
SEC. 9007. AMERICAN WORLD WAR II HERITAGE
CITIES.
(a) DESIGNATION.—In order to recognize and
ensure the continued preservation and im-
portance of the history of the United States
involvement in World War II, each calendar
year the Secretary may designate 1 or more
cities located in 1 of the several States or a
territory of the United States as an ‘‘Amer-
ican World War II Heritage City’’. Not more
than 1 city in each State or territory may be
designated under this section.
(b) APPLICATION FOR DESIGNATION.—The
Secretary may—
(1) establish and publicize the process by
which a city may apply for designation as an
American World War II Heritage City based
on the criteria in subsection (c); and
(2) encourage cities to apply for designa-
tion as an American World War II Heritage
City.
(c) CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION.—The Sec-
retary, in consultation with the Secretary of
the Smithsonian Institution or the President
of the National Trust for Historic Preserva-
tion, shall make each designation under sub-
section (a) based on the following criteria:
(1) Contributions by a city and its environs
to the World War II home-front war effort,
including contributions related to—
(A) defense manufacturing, such as ships,
aircraft, uniforms, and equipment;
(B) production of foodstuffs and consumer
items for Armed Forces and home consump-
tion;
(C) war bond drives;
(D) adaptations to wartime survival;
(E) volunteer participation;
(F) civil defense preparedness;
(G) personnel serving in the Armed Forces,
their achievements, and facilities for their
rest and recreation; or
(H) the presence of Armed Forces camps,
bases, airfields, harbors, repair facilities, and
other installations within or in its environs.
(2) Achievements by a city and its environs
to preserve the heritage and legacy of the
city’s contributions to the war effort and to
preserve World War II history, including—
(A) the identification, preservation, res-
toration, and interpretation of World War II-
related structures, facilities and sites;
(B) establishment of museums, parks, and
markers;
(C) establishment of memorials to area
men who lost their lives in service;
(D) organizing groups of veterans and
home-front workers and their recognition;
(E) presentation of cultural events such as
dances, plays, and lectures;
(F) public relations outreach through the
print and electronic media, and books; and
(G) recognition and ceremonies remem-
bering wartime event anniversaries.
SEC. 9008. QUINDARO TOWNSITE NATIONAL COM-
MEMORATIVE SITE.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COMMEMORATIVE SITE.—The term ‘‘Com-
memorative Site’’ means the Quindaro
Townsite National Commemorative Site des-
ignated by subsection (b)(1).
(2) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means the
State of Kansas.
(b) DESIGNATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Quindaro Townsite in
Kansas City, Kansas, as listed on the Na-
tional Register of Historic Places, is des-
ignated as the ‘‘Quindaro Townsite National
Commemorative Site’’.
(2) EFFECT OF DESIGNATION.—The Com-
memorative Site shall not be considered to
be a unit of the National Park System.
(c) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, in con-
sultation with the State, Kansas City, Kan-
sas, and affected subdivisions of the State,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1101
February 7, 2019
may enter into cooperative agreements with
appropriate public or private entities, for the
purposes of—
(A) protecting historic resources at the
Commemorative Site; and
(B) providing educational and interpretive
facilities and programs at the Commemora-
tive Site for the public.
(2) TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.—
The Secretary may provide technical and fi-
nancial assistance to any entity with which
the Secretary has entered into a cooperative
agreement under paragraph (1).
(d) NO EFFECT ON ACTIONS OF PROPERTY
OWNERS.—Designation of the Quindaro
Townsite as a National Commemorative Site
shall not prohibit any actions that may oth-
erwise be taken by a property owner (includ-
ing any owner of the Commemorative Site)
with respect to the property of the owner.
(e) NO EFFECT ON ADMINISTRATION.—Noth-
ing in this section affects the administration
of the Commemorative Site by Kansas City,
Kansas, or the State.
SEC. 9009. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL COMEDY
CENTER IN JAMESTOWN, NEW YORK.
(a) CONGRESSIONAL RECOGNITION.—Con-
gress—
(1) recognizes that the National Comedy
Center, located in Jamestown, New York, is
the only museum of its kind that exists for
the exclusive purpose of celebrating comedy
in all its forms; and
(2) officially designates the National Com-
edy Center as the ‘‘National Comedy Center’’
(referred to in this section as the ‘‘Center’’).
(b) EFFECT OF RECOGNITION.—The National
Comedy Center recognized in this section is
not a unit of the National Park System and
the designation of the Center shall not be
construed to require or permit Federal funds
to be expended for any purpose related to the
Center.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
AMENDMENT NO. 158 TO AMENDMENT NO. 111
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
call up the Lankford amendment No.
158 and ask that it be reported by num-
ber.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the amendment
by number.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Iowa [Mr. GRASSLEY], for
Mr. LANKFORD, proposes an amendment num-
bered 158 to amendment No. 111.
The amendment (No. 158) is as fol-
lows:
(Purpose: To modify the provision relating
to the Land and Water Conservation Fund
to impose certain requirements on the Fed-
eral acquisition of land and to require an
allocation of funds for the deferred mainte-
nance backlog)
Beginning on page 468, strike line 1 and all
that follows through page 469, line 18 and in-
sert the following:
‘‘(1) not less than 40 percent shall be used
for Federal purposes;
‘‘(2) not less than 40 percent shall be used
to provide financial assistance to States; and
‘‘(3) not less than 5 percent shall be used
for deferred maintenance needs on Federal
land.’’.
(c) PARITY FOR TERRITORIES AND THE DIS-
TRICT OF COLUMBIA.—Section 200305(b) of title
54, United States Code, is amended by strik-
ing paragraph (5).
(d) RECREATIONAL PUBLIC ACCESS.—Section
200306 of title 54, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c) RECREATIONAL PUBLIC ACCESS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the amounts made
available for expenditure in any fiscal year
under section 200303, there shall be made
available for recreational public access
projects identified on the priority list devel-
oped under paragraph (2) not less than the
greater of—
‘‘(A) an amount equal to 3 percent of those
amounts; or
‘‘(B) $15,000,000.
‘‘(2) PRIORITY LIST.—The Secretary and the
Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation
with the head of each affected Federal agen-
cy, shall annually develop a priority list for
projects that, through acquisition of land (or
an interest in land), secure recreational pub-
lic access to Federal land under the jurisdic-
tion of the applicable Secretary for hunting,
fishing, recreational shooting, or other out-
door recreational purposes.’’.
(e) ACQUISITION CONSIDERATIONS.—Section
200306 of title 54, United States Code (as
amended by subsection (d)), is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) ACQUISITION CONSIDERATIONS.—In de-
termining whether to acquire land (or an in-
terest in land) under this section, the Sec-
retary and the Secretary of Agriculture shall
take into account—
‘‘(1) the significance of the acquisition;
‘‘(2) the urgency of the acquisition;
‘‘(3) management efficiencies;
‘‘(4) management cost savings;
‘‘(5) geographic distribution;
‘‘(6) threats to the integrity of the land;
and
‘‘(7) the recreational value of the land.’’.
(f) CERTAIN LAND ACQUISITION REQUIRE-
MENTS.—Section 200306 of title 54, United
States Code (as amended by subsection (e)),
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(e) MAINTENANCE NEEDS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (3),
funds appropriated for the acquisition of
land under this section shall include any
funds necessary to address maintenance
needs at the time of acquisition on the ac-
quired land.
‘‘(2) ACCEPTANCE OF DONATIONS.—A Federal
agency may accept, hold, administer, and
use donations to address maintenance needs
on land acquired under this section.
‘‘(3) LIMITATION.—If a Federal agency ac-
cepts a donation under paragraph (2) to ad-
dress maintenance needs on land acquired
under this section, the funds appropriated
for the acquisition under paragraph (1) shall
not include funds equivalent to the amount
of that donation.’’.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President,
we are now on S. 47, our lands package
bill, and as we have heard, Senator
LANKFORD’s amendment has just been
called up. I am happy to speak to that,
but I understand he is in the process of
coming back to the Hill. We will wait
for his arrival, and he can speak di-
rectly to his amendment.
I want to take just a couple of min-
utes, right off the top, and speak to
some of the broader provisions in this
bill that I view as significant. Interest-
ingly, I was just visiting with our
President pro tempore, and he thanked
me. He said thank you because we have
a provision that helps Council Bluffs,
IA. It is something we have been work-
ing on for a long time, and now it ap-
pears it will be finally resolved through
this legislation.
That is a prime example of what we
have put together with this 100-plus
package of land and water bills—bills
that help sports men and women, bills
that help us with measures on con-
servation. It is a very wide and broad
effort, and yet so many of these provi-
sions are very local and very parochial.
However, local issues can help with
economic development in a region, and
I want to highlight how this package
does create economic opportunities in
our communities across the country.
For example, when this bill is signed
into law, Fannin County, in rural
Texas, will gain local control over the
Lake Fannin Recreation Area from the
Forest Service. This recreation area
right now, we are told, is rundown. It
has been closed to the public for many
years. The county is looking forward to
actually taking ownership so it can
transform Lake Fannin into a multiuse
recreation area, complete with trails,
playgrounds, and water recreation, al-
lowing and encouraging people to come
and visit and enjoy.
We also include a provision for La
Paz County in Arizona. This conveys a
parcel of Federal land to facilitate the
development of a large-scale solar
project. It will also allow for a link to
an electric transmission line. This is
going to be creating local jobs and is
going to be bringing renewable energy
online to power many of our commu-
nities. There is a great benefit there.
In Tucson, AZ, we removed bureau-
cratic obstacles to allow for the city to
operate a park. They have done this,
apparently, for dozens of years without
the control of a Federal Agency. So
when the local citizens want to oper-
ate, perhaps, a farmer’s market, they
are not going to have to jump over hur-
dles or be subjected to the whims of
Federal officials there. Instead, they
are able to make these local decisions.
For heaven’s sake, if they want to put
a little farmer’s market in there, they
shouldn’t have to come to Congress to
ask for permission.
Another example—I mentioned this
one before—is in South Dakota, in Cus-
ter County. This is a conveyance that
will allow the county to have full own-
ership of all the lands on which it oper-
ates its airport. It will allow the coun-
ty to expand the airport so a little bit
larger aircraft can get into the airport.
Again, you want to think about eco-
nomic opportunity. If you can’t bring
more folks into your community, into
your region, you are limited. Convey-
ances like this—small-scale acreage
that can allow for that expansion of op-
portunity—are strong and are impor-
tant. This is yet another reminder as
to the opportunities that we create for
our local communities.
We are also expanding and desig-
nating new areas of off-highway vehicle
recreation in the Mojave Desert, which
is out in San Bernardino County in
California. The OHV recreation is a
growing sector in the outdoor recre-
ation economy. It is so important to a
lot of our communities.
We also encourage Agencies to look
for new opportunities for fishing, for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1102 February 7, 2019
hunting, and for recreation on our Fed-
eral lands. Again, this is a very, very
significant sector in our economy as
consumer spending by hunters and an-
glers and target shooters supports over
1.6 million jobs and about $71.8 billion
in salaries per year. Of course, there is
that ripple effect then to the larger
communities when you are able to
bring in folks to enjoy these areas.
This is just a further example of how
we really work to create new economic
opportunities and why this lands pack-
age is so important.
We are creating economic opportuni-
ties, but we also fix a lot of problems.
That is one of the things that we try to
do on the Energy and Natural Re-
sources Committee. Sometimes prob-
lems are created because you just
didn’t even know that it was actually
your Federal Government or your land
disposition that was causing any form
of impediment, but we really do work
with a number of these provisions to
help to solve real problems with Fed-
eral land management.
There is one example that, I think,
my friends from Louisiana will appre-
ciate, and this relates to the situation
at Lake Bistineau—I hope I am pro-
nouncing that right—sponsored by Sen-
ator CASSIDY.
Back in 2017, there were a couple of
residents who wrote to Senator CAS-
SIDY. They were outlining their prob-
lem, and they wrote: Look, our family
purchased our land, our minerals, our
home, in the subject section over 13
years ago after we retired.
They go on to write: We have lived in
our home on the land ever since. There
were no contrary claims or clouds on
the title to the property when we pur-
chased it. Therefore, we were disturbed
to discover that the government felt it
had a claim to our title.
That would be kind of a bummer of a
letter to receive when you have been
living there for over a dozen years, and
now you find out, well, maybe you
don’t have a clear title there.
Lake Bistineau has a long and a very
complicated history with the Federal
Government. The land in question was
conveyed by the Federal Government
to the local levee district in 1901. Then
it was subsequently deeded to private
individuals. Yet, in the 1960s, the BLM
resurveyed the land, and then it real-
ized the boundary line was incorrect.
That survey led to the determination
that about 200 acres of land that were
currently held privately were actually
Federal land. That is a real problem, of
course.
As the letter to Senator CASSIDY
went on, they wrote: Just a few years
ago, we had the property listed for sale.
Once a suggested claim was made by
the BLM in its 2013 letter, the poten-
tial contract on the property fell
through.
Again, this is a situation of people
who had been living happily in their
home for a period of time and decided
that they were going to be moving on
but now were limited—handcuffed.
They had no idea that this was a prob-
lem that they had to deal with.
It is not just they. There were more
than 100 private landowners in Lou-
isiana who were impacted by this. This
is regarding land that has been held
under a private title for over a century
now—places where people have built
their homes, their businesses, their
lives—and now it is unclear where ex-
actly everybody stands. In the case of
Lake Bistineau, our bill clarifies own-
ership of the land and prevents the
Federal Government from ever claim-
ing it in the future.
I think, as people go through this to
look at individual bills that we have
included, that these are the types of
things that really help people. They
help improve people’s lives, and they
help improve our local economies. Un-
fortunately, sometimes it literally
takes an act of Congress to clear up
whether these are problems or impedi-
ments to our opportunities. Again,
what we have managed to address with-
in the structure of this bill is very,
very important.
I want to address the issue that will
be before us this afternoon, and that is
a conversation about the Land and
Water Conservation Fund.
As I mentioned, Senator LANKFORD’s
amendment is before us, and I wanted
to kind of put in context what it is
that we have done within our lands
package proposal and the title that re-
lates to the LWCF, as we call it. This
is in title III. Effectively, what the
Land and Water Conservation Fund es-
tablishes and what our provision does
is to make permanent the authoriza-
tion within the LWCF. So we deposit
oil and gas receipts into the Land and
Water Conservation Fund.
Also within our bill, we make some
commonsense reforms to the LWCF
Act. This is something that, in my
view, has been a long time in coming.
We have had good collaboration going
back and forth as to how we can make
these reforms and also allow for this
important conservation fund to be au-
thorized permanently going forward.
There is a little bit of history here.
The LWCF was enacted to help to pre-
serve, to develop, and to assure access
to outdoor recreation resources. It is
kind of a paper trust fund that accu-
mulates revenues from the Federal mo-
torboat fuel tax and surplus property
sales and then to supplement these
sources to reach the annualized level of
$900 million, which is what the author-
ized figure is. It is not a figure that we
have reached historically. That is for
sure. The fund also accumulates rev-
enue from oil and gas leases from the
Outer Continental Shelf, or the OCS.
As we see those revenues come in,
those revenues from the fossil fuel then
go to fund an account, if you will—the
LWCF fund—to help with conservation,
and whether States are moving forward
with conservation efforts or Federal
entities are, it helps to fund that.
The authorization to deposit oil and
gas receipts into the LWCF expired on
September 30, 2018, at the end of this
past fiscal year. We have to make sure
that those LWCF funds are moved, are
made available, but the moneys in the
fund are only available if they are ap-
propriated by Congress. Currently, we
have an unappropriated balance of just
over $20 billion in the LWCF. So some
have said: Oh, my gosh. The authoriza-
tion expired in September, and nothing
is happening within the LWCF.
In fairness, those funds are still com-
ing in. What we need to do is to make
sure that they are then available for
distribution and for appropriation, and
that is what we will do with this au-
thorization.
The amendments to the LWCF in this
bill are, again, very important to the
structure of the fund, and they are well
supported in the Senate. We have been
focusing on this expiration date and
the deposits to the LWCF for a long,
long time. I think we have had kind of
this stop-and-go approach of: How long
are we going to reauthorize the LWCF?
Is it 2 years? Is it 3 years? Is it perma-
nent? Is it not?
We go back and forth and forth and
back. Let’s come to the place where we
can accept that this conservation fund
is important on a host of different lev-
els, but let’s also work to make sure
that we have reformed, in a sense, how
we utilize this fund. Through this
measure, we are making the authoriza-
tion permanent, and spending from the
LWCF still remains subject to appro-
priations.
Let me just outline some of the re-
forms that we have included. In fair-
ness, they don’t go as far as I would
like them to, but they clearly reflect a
bipartisan-bicameral agreement. I will
go into a little more history again.
The 1965 authorization for the
LWCF—the original authorization—
provided that States would receive 60
percent of the funding and that the
Federal Agencies would receive 40 per-
cent. So where the State side dollars
have gone in the past is to outdoor
recreation facilities, and these have
been in areas where people generally
live—around the local city play-
grounds, baseball fields, local fishing
holes, and State parks. Certainly, in
States like mine, what we are able to
do with the State parks with the LWCF
moneys is really, very, very beneficial
and very much appreciated.
We set it up in 1965. In 1976, Congress
stripped this 60–40 split from the act.
The question there is, Why? The ‘‘be-
cause’’ is that there was concern in
Congress that by increasing the au-
thorization level to $900 million, some
States would have difficulty in meet-
ing the 50–50 match required to receive
the funds. In an effort to provide some
flexibility there, Congress then re-
placed the 60–40 State-Federal split
with the current language, which pro-
vides that not less than 40 percent of
the appropriations from the LWCF
should be for Federal purposes. So we
have gone from, basically, a guarantee
that the States would get 60 percent of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.004 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1103
February 7, 2019
the funding to, really, kind of flipping
that and saying not less than 40 per-
cent goes to Federal purposes.
What happened was not really the re-
sult that the Congress had intended.
According to the Congressional Re-
search Service, over the last 25 years,
what we have seen is that over 84 per-
cent of the funds have gone to Federal
purposes, primarily for land acquisi-
tion. Because we don’t have that more
clearly defined split, now we are seeing
that Federal acquisition increase sig-
nificantly.
When we talk about the Land and
Water Conservation Fund Act these
days, it is almost always about the
Federal land acquisition side. In my
view, that is disappointing, and that is
not the direction that I would like. I
think so many have seemed to have
forgotten about the very, very pivotal
role that the States have in conserva-
tion and outdoor recreation under the
act.
What we do in our LWCF section is
to recognize that States are the leaders
on recreation and conservation. We
aim to restore the balance to the
State-Federal split by ensuring that at
least 40 percent of the LWCF funds
have to be allocated to the State side
program. We want to try to get back to
a greater level of equity instead of
what we have had—again, over 84 per-
cent of the funds going to Federal pur-
poses.
We also recognize the importance of
access to existing Federal lands. In our
measure, we amend the LWCF to set
aside the greater of 3 percent or $15
million per year to improve access for
sportsmen and other recreation oppor-
tunities. For those of us in a sportsmen
community—for those of us who are
hunters, for those of us who are fisher-
men—access to these lands is really,
really important. We don’t want to just
have them and not be able to utilize
them. Whether it is going out and hik-
ing or going out and fishing, these are
the traditions that we have. Being out
on these Federal lands is the impor-
tance, and we recognize that in this
legislation.
I have made no secret of the fact that
I worry about what many would con-
sider to be unfettered land acquisition
by the Federal Government. In my
State, the Federal Government con-
trols almost 224 million acres. To put it
into context, Alaska is pretty big. You
know how big it is. It is the biggest out
there. It is one-fifth the size of the
United States of America. About 63
percent of our lands are held in Federal
ownership. To put it in another con-
text, that is about one-third larger
than all of Texas. So all of our Federal
lands are about one-third larger than
all of Texas. It is a lot.
Large amounts of Federal lands with-
in a State give the Federal Govern-
ment outsized influence in what hap-
pens in these States. So, to begin to ad-
dress these issues, the LWCF section
that is contained in our bipartisan
product requires the resource Secre-
taries to consider conservation ease-
ments instead of fee title acquisitions,
where appropriate and feasible, and
this will help to keep lands in private
ownership and as working lands. This
is a measure that my colleague from
South Dakota has been pushing and ad-
vancing.
In addition, we also amend the LWCF
to require the Agencies to take into ac-
count certain considerations in acquir-
ing land. This is like the geographic
distribution—whether the acquisition
would result in management effi-
ciencies and cost savings. We know
that we have this kind of checkerboard
pattern of Federal lands, so being
smart about our acquisitions to de-
velop efficiencies is the direction we
seek to take with this measure.
As you can see, we put a lot of work
into the provision. We have focused
very keenly on LWCF, recognizing the
priority that it is to so many. I think
we have tried to find that balance be-
tween reforms that are workable and
reforms that acknowledge the role our
States play and to put some contours
on the LWCF that I think Members can
appreciate and support.
I see that my friend, my colleague
from South Dakota, is here. I don’t
know—maybe he wants to talk about
that little airport in Custer County. I
have never been there, but hopefully it
is going to make a little bit of a dif-
ference to him. There are a couple hun-
dred acres that are conveyed to Custer
County.
I yield to my friend from South Da-
kota.
I will be speaking about these and
others measures as they come to the
floor.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority whip.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I
want to congratulate the Senator from
Alaska on doing a wonderful job pull-
ing together pieces of legislation that
have been lingering around here for a
long time. They have gone through the
committee process and have been vet-
ted—sometimes multiple times—but
have never ultimately made it across
the finish line. We have an opportunity
here, when we get a chance to vote, to
complete that work and to do some-
thing that will be very meaningful for
Senators on both sides of the aisle who
represent a wide swath of our country.
As the Senator from Alaska pointed
out, she and her staff were very helpful
to us. We have a little issue in Custer,
SD. The city of Custer wants to have
an airport—to expand their airport op-
erations, and the Forest Service wants
to transfer some of the land in order
for them to do that, and it takes action
by Congress to make that happen. So
we are grateful to Senator MURKOWSKI
and her team for all they have done to
advance this legislation and to give us
an opportunity, once and for all, to get
a number of things across the finish
line that have been waiting for a long
time.
THE ECONOMY
Madam President, Democrats like to
present themselves as the party of
working Americans, but if that were
ever true, it is certainly not true any-
more. You don’t have to look any fur-
ther than recent Democratic policy to
see how disconnected the Democratic
Party is and has become from ordinary
Americans.
Let’s take the so-called Green New
Deal. This proposal, which would re-
quire that all U.S. energy production
be renewable, could raise electricity
bills for families by more than $3,000
per year—$3,000 per year.
It is difficult to see how anyone who
understands the challenges faced by
working families would propose adding
$3,000 per year to their electricity bills.
When I am home in South Dakota, I
regularly hear from South Dakotan
families who are working hard to make
ends meet. I can think of few families
in my State—or anywhere else, for that
matter—who could easily absorb an ad-
ditional $3,000 a year in energy costs.
With last week’s polar vortex or even
the average cold winters we get on the
Great Plains, it is frightening to think
about how many people would be at
risk if it weren’t for reliable and af-
fordable energy.
Then, of course, there is the Demo-
crats’ Medicare for All proposal. This
sounds like a simple solution—who
doesn’t want to increase access to
healthcare?—until you hear the price
tag. The so-called Medicare for All
would cost an estimated $32 trillion
over 10 years. That is equivalent to the
entire Federal discretionary budget
more than two times over.
Democrats like to present the fiction
of free healthcare. Well, that is pre-
cisely what it is—fiction. There is just
no such thing as a free lunch, and there
is certainly no such thing as free
healthcare. Nurses have to be paid. Lab
technicians have to be paid. MRI and x
ray technicians have to be paid. The
people who cook for patients and keep
our hospitals clean have to be paid.
Pharmacists have to be paid. Medical
supplies have to be purchased. Some-
one has to pay all those costs.
Under the government-run
healthcare plan of the Senator from
Vermont, the government would be
paying all the healthcare bills. So the
government would pay all those costs,
but the government is going to have to
get all that money from somewhere.
Where is that money going to come
from? Well, it is going to come from
the American people, and the govern-
ment would need a lot more money
from ordinary Americans to cover the
cost of Medicare for All. Doubling the
amount of individual and corporate in-
come tax collected would still not be
enough to pay for the mammoth costs
of this plan.
Make no mistake—this is not a plan
that would be paid for solely from the
coffers of the rich; the so-called Medi-
care for All would be paid for on the
backs of middle-class Americans.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.005 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1104 February 7, 2019
Americans would see stratospheric tax
hikes, to say nothing of the loss of
their employer-sponsored health insur-
ance. Under Medicare for All, if you
like your health insurance, you will
not be able to keep it because Medicare
for All would do away with all em-
ployer-sponsored insurance. One hun-
dred and seventy-five million Ameri-
cans would lose their healthcare cov-
erage and be forced into a government-
run replacement—a replacement where
the government sets the prices and
makes the decisions about what gets
covered. So you will still be paying for
your healthcare via new and higher
taxes, but the government will have
the final say.
I could go on. I could talk about
other Democratic proposals, such as
the proposal to raise the top marginal
tax rate to 70 percent—a rate we
haven’t seen since 1965—which would
be a tax hike not only on individuals
but on small and medium-sized busi-
nesses as well. Then there is the House
Democrats’ proposal to substantially
increase the corporate tax rate even
though lowering it to make American
businesses more competitive globally
has helped grow our economy. It has
helped keep businesses and jobs in the
United States, and it has produced new
benefits and opportunities for Amer-
ican workers.
Suffice it to say that the Democratic
agenda is not an agenda for the middle
class. It is an agenda crafted by and for
elites and far-left special interest
groups. It is an agenda for people who
don’t have to worry about the size of
their energy bill or a hike in their
taxes. It is not an agenda for working
families.
Republicans know that working fam-
ilies had a tough time in recent years.
Years of economic stagnation during
the Obama administration left wages
essentially flat, and jobs and opportu-
nities were few and far between. For
too many families, getting ahead has
been replaced with getting by.
Since Republicans took office 2 years
ago, we have made huge progress at
turning the economy around. Tax re-
form has made life better for ordinary
Americans. It has put more money in
their pockets and in their paychecks.
It has reduced utility bills. It has ex-
panded the jobs and opportunities
available to workers.
Today, the economy is growing, un-
employment is low, and wages are ris-
ing at the best pace in a decade. But
there is still more work to be done, and
Republicans are committed to accom-
plishing that work. We want to expand
the benefits of tax reform even further.
We want to lower the cost of living. We
want to make healthcare more afford-
able. We want to help Americans save
for their children’s education and for
their retirement. We intend to do it all
while leaving Americans in charge of
their own decisions. We know that
Americans are the best judge of what
they and their families need and where
their money should go, and Repub-
licans are committed to keeping Amer-
icans in charge of their own destinies.
We have made a lot of progress so far
for American families, and we are com-
mitted to making a lot more. We will
oppose every attempt by Democrats to
advance an agenda that will result in
fewer jobs, lower paychecks, and in-
creased burdens for American families.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
our colleagues on the Judiciary Com-
mittee are meeting to advance a num-
ber of judicial nominees and the Presi-
dent’s choice for Attorney General here
to the Senate floor.
In Bill Barr, President Trump has
nominated a tried-and-true public serv-
ant and a proven professional to lead
the men and women of the Department
of Justice.
Testifying before the committee last
month, Mr. Barr expressed his unwav-
ering commitment to the rule of law,
the Constitution, and the American
people.
My colleagues don’t have to take his
word for it. Having served as Attorney
General once before, Mr. Barr’s quali-
fications and job performance speak for
themselves.
In 1991, this body saw fit to confirm
him to head DOJ by a voice vote. That
was the third time he had earned Sen-
ate confirmation without opposition.
On both sides of the aisle, Senators
were vocal in their praise for the ‘‘inde-
pendent voice’’ of an ‘‘honorable guy,’’
William Barr.
Today, the job description remains
exactly the same as it was years ago,
and before us is a nominee who remains
eminently well qualified to discharge
these duties. The Senate needs to act
quickly to put Bill Barr back to work
at the Justice Department. I hope and
expect he will be confirmed next week.
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT ACT
Today, the Senate officially turned
to the Natural Resources Management
Act, a broad bipartisan package of 100-
plus distinct land bills with importance
to nearly every Member of this body. I
am certainly one of them.
This comprehensive legislation in-
cludes two initiatives I introduced with
my House colleagues ANDY BARR and
HAL ROGERS. They will incorporate two
Civil War sites in Kentucky as part of
the National Park System, Camp Nel-
son and Mill Springs Battlefield. By
designating these two sites as national
monuments, we will ensure that their
rich history will be preserved for the
education and service of future genera-
tions.
Camp Nelson was established in 1863
in Jessamine County. It would become
arguably Kentucky’s top recruiting
station and training facility for the
Union’s African-American soldiers. In
later years, those seeking freedom
from slavery fled to the camp. This his-
toric site helped expedite the destruc-
tion of slavery in Kentucky.
My other proposal would protect
Mills Springs Battlefield, the site of an
1862 battle that historians remember as
the Union’s first significant victory in
the West, and one of its earliest major
victories in the whole Civil War.
Preserving these sites isn’t the only
way Kentucky will benefit from this
sweeping lands package. The bill will
help historically Black colleges and
universities like Kentucky State Uni-
versity preserve their distinguished
contributions to our communities; it
extends the Lewis and Clark National
Historic Trail into Kentucky; and it
bolsters our critical efforts to combat
invasive species like the dangerous
Asian carp that clog up Western Ken-
tucky waterways. These are just exam-
ples in my home State.
Across the whole country, commu-
nities will benefit from more flexibility
for economic development, more com-
monsense approaches to conservation,
and more access to our country’s Fed-
eral lands. It is no wonder that nearly
300 expert groups and advocacy organi-
zations publicly support the contents
of this bill, from economic develop-
ment organizations to natural re-
sources nonprofits to cultural organi-
zations and prominent historians.
Chairman MURKOWSKI and all of our
colleagues on the Energy and Natural
Resources Committee deserve credit
for getting us to this point. Senators
GARDNER and DAINES have been par-
ticularly effective advocates for this
legislation. I look forward to passing it
soon.
ELECTIONS
Madam President, on one final mat-
ter, in the days since House Democrats
began arguing for a massive takeover
of America’s elections, we have heard a
lot of dramatic claims about the state
of American democracy.
Speaker PELOSI has denounced ‘‘devi-
ous vote-suppression schemes.’’ The
Democrats’ response to the State of
the Union on Tuesday night warned of
‘‘threats to democracy’’ and ‘‘efforts to
undermine our right to vote.’’
If you listened only to Democrats,
you might actually think there is a
widespread voting crisis in this coun-
try. If you took Democrats’ rhetoric at
face value, you certainly wouldn’t
guess that 2018 saw the highest mid-
term turnout rate in half a century or
that 2016 hit an all-time record for
Presidential ballots cast and the third
highest Presidential turnout rate in 50
years. If you believed the Democrats’
rhetoric, you would be shocked—
shocked—to see the freedom, openness,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.007 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1105
February 7, 2019
and availability of the electoral fran-
chise across the country in the year
2019.
Let’s start with voter registration.
Current Federal law provides all Amer-
icans the option to register to vote
when they apply for an identification
card at their local DMV. In many
cases, registering is as simple as check-
ing a box on a completed form. If that
is not enough, voter registration is
available at Agencies that provide so-
cial services or disability services. It is
available in places like military re-
cruitment centers, post offices, hunt-
ing and fishing license offices, and
courthouses. Voter registration is even
available online in many places, and in
places where it isn’t, detailed instruc-
tions are available to anyone who goes
looking.
You will find voter registration
drives on college campuses, in high
schools, or outside the subways or
train stations. You will find them at
church and other civic organizations.
You will find voter registration drives
while you are walking down the street,
visiting a grocery store, or many other
public places. Heck, many campaigns
and advocacy groups will come door to
door to register voters.
So what about once voters are reg-
istered? To hear these Democrats tell
it, all of the polling places across
America are staffed—staffed—by ma-
levolent people who set out to deny the
franchise to as many of their neighbors
as possible.
But beneath the rhetoric, the proce-
dures they are trying to attack actu-
ally could not be more reasonable.
We are talking about things like
making sure voters are in the right
precinct or even the right county so
that they have the opportunity to vote
for their local leaders—things like re-
quiring any form of identification to
verify that voters are who they claim
to be, things like making sure there is
enough time between voter registra-
tion and election day for officials to
verify what district and precinct voters
live in or that they are eligible to vote
in that State in the first place.
These are simple, commonsense prac-
tices. They have worked just fine in
communities across the country, in
areas overseen by Democratic elected
officials and Republican elected offi-
cials alike. But now—now—Democrats
have decided these standard processes
are so unfair or so immoral that the
Federal Government must snatch the
reins away from the people and their
local representatives. Now Washington
Democrats have decided we need
them—them—to determine how we
elect our leaders.
Once again, the plain facts disprove
all of the hyperventilating. After last
year’s election, the Pew Research Cen-
ter surveyed Americans about their
voting experience, asking: How do you
feel about voting?
Ninety-two percent said their voting
experience was easy—92 percent—easy.
Only 1 percent of voters found their ex-
perience ‘‘very difficult.’’ One percent?
That could be the result of practically
any inconvenience: full parking lots
maybe, long lines, bad traffic, a forgot-
ten ID. You name it. But more than 9
of 10 voters indicated they had no trou-
ble whatsoever, so it is more than a lit-
tle suspicious—more than a little sus-
picious—that Washington Democrats
are trying to invent crises to justify a
huge power grab for themselves.
This fact-free rhetoric is being used
to push legislation that would override
the decisions of Americans’ democrat-
ically chosen local leaders and replace
them with one-size-fits-all prescrip-
tions authored by a small handful of
politicians, like Speaker PELOSI, Con-
gressman SARBANES, and a few others
whom the vast majority of Americans
do not elect and have no way to hold
accountable. These prescriptions large-
ly seem designed to help Democrats
and their DC attorneys contest rules
after election day. I call this 500-plus-
page doorstop the Democratic Politi-
cian Protection Act for a reason.
Let me be abundantly clear. Every
eligible American voter should be com-
pletely free to exercise their right to
vote at every opportunity and cast a
ballot, period. There is no question
about that. Every single valid vote
should be counted. Opposing the Demo-
cratic Politician Protection Act is not
opposing those basic tenets.
But the way to honor these basic
propositions is to let States and local-
ities take simple, necessary steps to
protect our elections and ensure that
valid votes are not diluted; to have pro-
cedures in place to make sure that vot-
ers are casting ballots in the right
places; to make sure that the American
people are the ones who determine how
we elect our leaders.
The real threat to American democ-
racy is staring us in the face—right in
the face: an invented crisis, inaccurate
rhetoric, all to justify an unprece-
dented intrusion by Washington, DC,
Democrats into the way States run
their elections.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Madam President,
for the awareness of Senators, they
should expect a vote in relation to the
Lankford amendment No. 158 sometime
around 1:30 this afternoon—so just in a
little bit here. Then, next in the queue
will be Senator LEE’s amendment No.
162. We hope to have a vote on that
amendment around 2 o’clock. There is
a lengthy Judiciary hearing that is
still underway, and we want to accom-
modate that.
Both of these amendments are re-
lated to the Land and Water Conserva-
tion Fund I just spoke about a few mo-
ments ago. I just wanted to give Mem-
bers a heads-up.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
first thank Congresswoman MURKOWSKI
for all of her hard work. I thank the
majority leader for allowing us to
move on this bill—it has been 4 to 5
years—on the lands bill. We are very
appreciative.
We continue to work with a handful
of Members to try to address their con-
cerns and make improvements that we
can add to this public package. I again
thank Chairman MURKOWSKI and other
Members.
It appears we will need to take votes
on a few amendments, some of which I
am concerned could put the entire
package in jeopardy. It is my sincere
hope it does not come to that situa-
tion, and Chairman MURKOWSKI and I
are going to do everything we can to
address Members’ concerns while pro-
tecting the package. This is in jeop-
ardy.
We have an agreement with the
House, with the Chairman in the
House. We have an agreement that
they will take what the Senate has
been working on in a fair way, and that
is what is important. A great deal of
hard work went into this package. It is
a great piece of legislation. It has
many reasons to be warmly received by
both sides of the aisle in the House and
Senate.
Furthermore, the package addresses
many Members’ long-term standing
priorities, which will improve the way
our public lands are managed and will
help constituents in small towns across
America.
I respectfully encourage Members
with outstanding concerns to continue
working with Chairman MURKOWSKI
and me to meet their needs—but not in
this package. My door is open. I know
Chairman MURKOWSKI’s door is open.
We are committed to working with
those who have not been successful in
getting something they desire into
this—or some people who basically re-
quested a vote—and keeping this thing
clean, so that we can send it over to
the House and have a successful day. I
think it would be great.
It has been 4 to 5 years. It is well be-
yond its time.
I yield the floor.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
don’t know if the Judiciary Committee
voted yet, but if they haven’t, they will
vote shortly on the nomination of Wil-
liam Barr.
I knew Mr. Barr when he was Attor-
ney General and when he was general
counsel to Verizon—that is a New York
company where I dealt with him—and I
have always respected his public serv-
ice and his intelligence. But when his
authorship of an unsolicited memo to
the Justice Department criticizing the
special counsel’s investigation was un-
covered, I came to the conclusion that
he is the wrong person to serve as At-
torney General at this challenging mo-
ment for our country. The memo alone,
I felt, was disqualifying—maybe not
under any President but certainly
under this President, who is utterly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.008 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1106 February 7, 2019
contemptuous of the rule of law. But I
wanted to give Mr. Barr a chance to
change my mind, so I met with him a
few weeks ago. Our conversation fo-
cused on three issues.
The first was an issue that had been
discussed at his Judiciary hearing
where I didn’t think his answer was
very satisfactory, so I asked him again,
very directly, whether he would recuse
himself if ethics officials at the Justice
Department said he should. Regret-
tably, he would not commit to do this.
Instead, he said he would make his own
decision.
The second issue I brought up was
the need for the special counsel’s re-
port on Russian influence in the 2016
election to be made public. Whatever
conclusions Mueller comes to, we as a
Congress and the American people have
an obligation to see what kind of for-
eign influence there is in our elections.
It seems pretty clear to me that in this
case, the report should be made pub-
lic—the full report, except things re-
dacted for security purposes.
I asked Nominee Barr whether he
would release the full Mueller report,
with redactions only if intelligence
agencies said that was necessary to
avoid compromising sources. He said he
is for transparency. That is not good
enough. We are all for transparency in
the abstract. The question is, Are you
for transparency in probably the most
important act you will take as Attor-
ney General when it comes to trans-
parency? To merely say you are for
transparency doesn’t say much. What
was needed was an unequivocal and
public commitment to release the full
report. Again, he would not give me
that assurance.
Finally, I asked Mr. Barr about inter-
ference in the special counsel’s inves-
tigation. He referred to the special
counsel regulations and said at the
hearing and I think in other places
publicly that he wanted to finish the
investigation. That is not good enough.
Finishing the investigation while
interfering and limiting it as it goes
forward would be a travesty—certainly
with this President, who has treated
the Justice Department as if it is his
own personal fiefdom. At times, Presi-
dent Trump seems to feel there are two
goals to the Justice Department and
those alone—to punish his enemies and
help him. That is not the rule of law.
That is not the greatness of the United
States.
With this President, we need an At-
torney General who can assure the
Senate and the public that he will
stand up to a President who believes
the Justice Department exists simply
to do the President’s personal bidding
and protect the President’s personal in-
terests above those of the country. The
President wants a Roy Cohn to be his
Attorney General, but this is a mo-
ment that calls for an Elliot Richard-
son.
As Senator COONS said in the Judici-
ary Committee today, Mr. Barr’s case
for his own confirmation seems to boil
down to one thought: Just trust me.
Mr. Barr doesn’t seem to recognize
that this isn’t adequate for an Attor-
ney General in the Trump administra-
tion. The moment calls for stronger,
more explicit assurances. And that is
independent of what each of us thinks
of the personal characteristics of Mr.
Barr. This President has no regard for
personal characteristics. This Presi-
dent never listens to an argument that
he thinks is against his self-interest,
even if it is in accord with American
tradition or American law. So to sim-
ply say ‘‘just trust me’’ is not close to
good enough probably under any Presi-
dent but certainly under this one.
I believe that in the coming months,
our next Attorney General will be
faced with one or more real constitu-
tional crises. The Attorney General
will be tested. If Mr. Barr is confirmed,
I hope he will be equal to those chal-
lenges, but unfortunately and very re-
grettably, he was not willing to provide
the Senate with sufficient assurances
to give us confidence that he is pre-
pared to meet the challenge. And the
idea that he shouldn’t say it now be-
cause it would jeopardize his nomina-
tion? Well, if Trump would withdraw
the nomination when he says it now,
Trump will certainly fire him if he
tries to do it later, so that argument
doesn’t hold any water.
For all those reasons—the fact that
he won’t recuse himself even if the eth-
ics officials at the Department of Jus-
tice say he should; the fact that he
won’t give an unequivocal commitment
to make the full report available to the
Congress and the public, with the ap-
propriate redactions for intelligence
only; and the fact that he won’t com-
mit to not interfere in the investiga-
tion, not to limit the investigation or
not approve subpoenas—all three of
those make it crystal clear that Mr.
Barr should not be approved for Attor-
ney General.
S. 47
Madam President, on one other mat-
ter, the legislation on the floor is the
largest bipartisan package of public
lands bills in over a decade.
I have always been a supporter of
protecting our Nation’s public lands
and our beautiful and pristine natural
resources. Every summer, my family
and I used to go hiking in our national
parks. They are some of the most joy-
ous moments I have had. So I have al-
ways supported our natural resources
and protecting them on public lands.
They make our communities more re-
silient as well.
I strongly support the bill that
Chairman MURKOWSKI and Ranking
Member MANCHIN have put together. I
want to thank the previous ranking
member, Senator CANTWELL, for her
great work on this as well.
The bill includes a permanent reau-
thorization of the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund, which is the Nation’s
premier conservation program. It is re-
sponsible for projects in every State
nationwide, and every one of New
York’s 62 counties has benefited.
The bill takes great strides in pro-
tecting our natural resources and pub-
lic lands, including designating over a
million acres of new wilderness, adding
over 2,000 miles to the National Trails
System, and increasing the size of our
national parks.
I know from my travels across New
York that this is not only a benefit for
the environment, but it is also a boon
for our economy. It boosts ecotourism,
boosts the hospitality and restaurant
industry in those communities, creates
jobs, and enables countless tourists,
such as myself when we visited the
West, to experience the beauty of our
Nation.
Additionally, this bill will help with
projects in my home State of New
York. A few important examples in-
clude designating Jamestown’s Na-
tional Comedy Center as the National
Comedy Center of the United States.
Jamestown is a beautiful city, home of
Lucille Ball. It allows the Department
of the Interior to grant an easement to
New York City so that the Staten Is-
land seawall can be built. Staten Island
was hit with a de facto tsunami during
Superstorm Sandy that led to massive
property damage and the tragic loss of
many lives. I visited the next day, and
it was awful. Better protecting Staten
Island from the next disaster is essen-
tial. This would help move the ball for-
ward.
Let me again thank Senators MUR-
KOWSKI, CANTWELL, and MANCHIN and
their staffs for the great work. I look
forward to voting yes, and I hope it
gets a very strong vote here in the Sen-
ate. I hope none of our colleagues will
move to delay it.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). The Senator from Oklahoma.
AMENDMENT NO. 158
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President,
pending, we have an amendment of
mine coming up. We have a large lands
package with the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund, with a lot of lands,
transitional properties. A lot of things
are coming up in this.
There are multiple reforms that are
built into it, but we missed one. I think
it is important that we deal with this
before we do a long-term, permanent
reauthorization of this program be-
cause when this Congress does a perma-
nent reauthorization, we seldom ever
get back to it. We say: It is moving,
and there are other things that need to
be dealt with. It becomes less impor-
tant.
My amendment has two basic parts.
It addresses two critical issues of the
Land and Water Conservation Fund.
One of them is that the Land and
Water Conservation Fund is set up to
purchase new properties, but if there is
a problem on that piece of property
that we purchased, there is no require-
ment to fix it.
Here is how it works: The fund actu-
ally purchases the property, and then
the hope is that Congress will then ap-
propriate dollars separately to do the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.010 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1107
February 7, 2019
repairs to open up the property. So it is
announced to the community that this
new area will be opened up as public
lands, but when the purchase is actu-
ally done, there is a big sign on it say-
ing ‘‘closed for safety repairs.’’ Those
repairs may cost $1 million, $2 million,
$3 million, and there is a wait of some-
times 10 years or more before the ac-
tual appropriation is done.
This is an easy fix. This fix should be
noncontroversial. When we purchase
property with the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund, if there is any mainte-
nance needed on that property, then
that needed maintenance is also taken
care of by the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund at the same time. It
has to be budgeted in. That way, we
don’t purchase property and then wait
a decade to actually put it into public
use. That doesn’t make sense to any-
one. Everyone walks by it and says:
Here is inefficient government again.
We bought this property, but there is a
different pot of money to fix it up, and
we have to wait a decade.
I hope that this is noncontroversial
to all us and that we see the common
sense in this.
In this package, there is some land
that we will purchase and literally not
be able to use for who knows how long.
There is a hope for future appropria-
tions at some point to deal with safety
issues so that people will be able to ac-
tually use the land.
The second part of this deals with the
past because this has been the process
for a while. We purchase new properties
and try to put them into use but can’t
because they came with maintenance
issues. We have other public lands,
such as our national parks, where there
is $11 billion in backlogged deferred
maintenance, with no plan to actually
fix those. Let me give some examples.
We have all heard of Yellowstone.
There is $100 million of deferred main-
tenance at just that one park, with no
plan to fix it.
The simple answer is that the Land
and Water Conservation Fund is set up
to purchase new properties when need-
ed. Allocate just 5 percent of it to go to
the deferred maintenance backlog.
That still leaves 95 percent of it to pur-
chase additional properties when we
need to. But we need to seriously deal
with the $16 billion total backlog, and
$11 billion of that is deferred mainte-
nance in our national parks.
This is not a poison pill. This
shouldn’t be a controversial amend-
ment. This is an amendment to help fix
an ongoing problem. If we don’t fix it,
10 years from now, we will all regret
that it was not done. What I suspect is,
if we put this in place and actually set
aside some dollars for deferred mainte-
nance, by next year, every Member of
this body will say: You know what,
there is a national park in my State
where there are some broken-down
buildings that are boarded up that no
one can use. Let’s try to get access to
those maintenance dollars to fix it.
Fine. We can pick whatever order we
need to pick from to get to them. Let’s
start repairing. Let’s not be a bad land-
owner who purchases and never repairs
and has no plan to repair. This is sim-
ple, straightforward, and should be
common sense. Let’s not add properties
that we can’t pay for. Let’s not add
properties with a maintenance problem
and no plan to actually fix it. That is
what the amendment is all about that
is coming up in the very next vote we
take. I look forward to its passage so
we can actually get some of these re-
pairs done.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
(The remarks of Mrs. FISCHER per-
taining to the introduction of S. 372 are
printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
Mrs. FISCHER. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Montana.
S. 47
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I am
here to urge my Senate colleagues to
support S. 47, a lands package that in-
cludes over 100 locally driven as well as
nationally important bills—specifi-
cally, two very important priorities for
Montana. The first is the Land and
Water Conservation Fund, and the sec-
ond is the Yellowstone Gateway Pro-
tection Act.
The Land and Water Conservation
Fund is a critical tool in protecting
and expanding access to what makes
Montana so special; that is, our public
lands. This program works with willing
landowners. You see, when you look at
a map of landowners in Montana, it be-
comes oftentimes very checkerboard in
nature. You have sections owned pri-
vately, sections owned by the State
government, sections owned by the
Federal Government. What LWCF does
is allows willing landowners to provide
more access to public lands, as well as
increasing outdoor recreation opportu-
nities for cities and towns. It helps
multigenerational farmers and ranch-
ers and loggers continue to work their
land.
Yet, without permanent reauthoriza-
tion of this critical program, it will
continue to expire, Congress after Con-
gress, putting so much of what makes
Montana the ‘‘Last Best Place’’ at risk
because in Montana public lands are a
way of life. For Cindy and for me, we
can think of no better experience than
to put backpacks on and head up to the
Beartooth Wilderness, for example,
during the weeks of August.
This is about teaching future genera-
tions of Montanans to love the out-
doors and to spend time outside be-
cause we can access these public lands,
just the way my parents did with me
growing up in Bozeman and just the
way I did with our four children.
It is not just about a way of life. It is
also about our economy because public
lands help spur a $7 billion outdoor
economy in Montana. That creates
thousands of jobs in our State, and
they supply almost $300 million in
State and local tax revenue. People all
over Montana know the importance of
this program, and we can’t keep kick-
ing that proverbial can down the road
on this critical program for Montana.
It is time we permanently authorize
this program once and for all.
This lands package also has a bill
called the Yellowstone Gateway Pro-
tection Act. In Montana, we are grate-
ful to be the home of our Nation’s very
first national park; that is, Yellow-
stone.
There are some places that are just
too special to mine. The Paradise Val-
ley—by the way, it is aptly named the
‘‘Paradise Valley.’’ Think about this.
The Yellowstone River starts down in
Yellowstone Park and comes to the
north and runs through Paradise Val-
ley. It eventually ends up in Missouri,
but this Paradise Valley and the Gar-
diner Basin are on the doorstep of Yel-
lowstone National Park. This bill is
one example of the over 100 land ex-
changes, conveyances, or designations
nationwide that are critically impor-
tant to local communities as they fa-
cilitate economic development and are
locally driven ways to resolve land use
challenges.
Let me talk about locally driven. The
Yellowstone Gateway Protection Act is
a great example of something that is
locally driven—the community, the
landowners, the elected leaders. They
are strongly supporting this act that I
hope we pass in the U.S. Senate, get
over to the House, and then soon onto
the President’s desk.
This bill also secures other wins for
our sportsmen’s heritage by including
provisions that will ensure our Federal
lands are open for access and only
closed with consultation that comes
from our States.
This bill will also help curtail the
fringe litigation that halts common-
sense active forest management by
shining light on who gets equal access
to Justice Act funds and Judgment
Fund payments. The bill strengthens
partnerships for our national parks
like the 21st Century Conservation
Corps Act.
Simply stated, this bill is a historic
win for Montana and the West, but
don’t take my word for it. The sports-
men groups across the country are call-
ing this bill a historic achievement for
conservation—groups like the Theo-
dore Roosevelt Conservation Partner-
ship, like the Rocky Mountain Elk
Foundation, like the American Fly
Fishing Trade Association, like the
Congressional Sportsmen’s Founda-
tion, the Boone and Crockett Club, the
Trust for Public Land, Montana groups
like Businesses for Montana Outdoors
and the Montana Outdoors Coalition,
and the list goes on.
I urge my colleagues at this mo-
ment—this moment when we have di-
vided government in Washington, DC—
that we can come together. There is
nothing as bipartisan that I have seen
in a long time here than this lands
package, Republicans and Democrats
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.011 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1108 February 7, 2019
who are coming together to get this
bill done.
I urge my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to vote to support this lands
package. It is long overdue that we get
this done for Montana and for our Na-
tion.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, we
have before us now the pending amend-
ment. This is the Lankford amendment
regarding the use of LWCF funds for
deferred maintenance. This amend-
ment acknowledges and, I think, at-
tempts to address what we are dealing
with in a deferred maintenance back-
log. We all recognize that it is an issue
and a problem. What Senator
LANKFORD has done is specifically to
direct 5 percent of funds distributed
from LCWF to deferred maintenance.
It also requires that any new Federal
lands acquisitions allow for mainte-
nance needs at the time of acquisition.
I think we would all agree that we
have a very real problem with deferred
maintenance on our Nation’s public
lands. We think about the National
Park Service most often, which has an
$11.6 billion backlog, and it is not just
the National Park Service. It is the Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge, BLM, and the
Forest Service. So this is an issue, and
we have been working within the com-
mittee to address this. There have been
numerous bills that have come before
our committee. We are working with
the administration, and we know we
have to address it.
This proposed amendment is clearly
an effort to do that, and I appreciate
what Senator LANKFORD has done in fo-
cusing our attention on this significant
maintenance backlog and the need to
plan for routine and ongoing mainte-
nance in any new acquisition.
So I am standing before our col-
leagues saying: I understand where
Senator LANKFORD wants to take us, I
appreciate it, I agree with him, but
given where we are right now with this
package and how it has come together,
knowing that we will have, I think, sig-
nificant opposition, whether it is on
the other side or in the other body, it
is viewed as detrimental to what we
have put together.
So I am reluctantly going to be op-
posing the Lankford amendment, but,
again, I want to make sure that we all
take this on as an issue to address in a
way that is rational, sound, and rea-
sonable going forward into the future.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I also
rise with Chairman MURKOWSKI. This is
a timing problem. This is only a timing
problem. As far as Senator LANKFORD’s
amendment, I will be joining Senator
MURKOWSKI when she moves to table
the amendment, simply because of the
timing situation working with the
House.
The House has been gracious. Chair-
man GRIJALVA has been wonderful, ba-
sically sitting with us and working
with us. We gave him a list of every-
thing we agreed on after the ‘‘Four
Corners’’ that Senator CANTWELL and
Senator MURKOWSKI worked on before.
We all sat down and went through this,
and it is just a matter of timing.
What I am saying to my dear friend
from Oklahoma is that when I was
Governor, I insisted that my State
agencies account for deferred mainte-
nance. I would not let them build any-
thing in any State park or let them do
anything in our parks unless they
showed me how they were taking care
of what we have already done. I under-
stand. I am totally committed to help
with working through this, but because
this is putting a poison pill—not that
we disagree—it is the timing and the
effort in the deal that we have already
made. That is the poison pill that it
puts us in, and that basically sinks it
because he will not take anything more
back from what we have already
cleared on that side. So the LCWF lan-
guage in this bill has been terribly ne-
gotiated and not only in the Senate but
between the Houses also. I know that
Senators GARDNER and CANTWELL and
everybody have worked so hard on this,
and it gives us permanent authoriza-
tion and it is a step in the right direc-
tion that we are finally moving to.
So I support Chairman MURKOWSKI’s
motion to table this amendment. I re-
luctantly do that because of our agree-
ment with Senator LANKFORD’s intent
on what he is trying to do, and we are
committed to going back and working
with him to get it through the com-
mittee.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for 1
minute.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator has that right.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, only
in Washington, DC, and the Federal
Government would we say that we
want to do something, but we can’t do
something. My hope is that we will do
something.
Long-term, we all see it. I agree that
it is the same thing that we always
deal with. It is always down to the
time and to the moment.
This is one of these dialogues we
have had for a long time, asking how
we can deal with deferred maintenance
that is $16 billion and growing and with
no plan to shrink it. In fact, we are
adding lands in this bill that, when we
pass the bill, will increase the amount
immediately, and there is no plan to
take care of that.
The simple request is that we should
actually take care of deferred mainte-
nance when we buy it so that we are
not adding property with deferred
maintenance on day one, and we should
have a plan to deal with deferred main-
tenance that we have—the $16 billion.
Without that plan to actually deal
with it and without a plan to deal with
it the first day with products that we
buy, we are adding to the deficit imme-
diately.
This is an issue we have to resolve
long-term, and it will not get better.
My concern, as I have expressed, is
that this is a permanent reauthoriza-
tion. We don’t ever have to come back
to it. I hope we do, but we don’t ever
have to come back to it, and this Con-
gress is notorious for only doing things
we have to do.
So we will see how things go in the
future with this.
With that, I yield back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
MOTION TO TABLE AMENDMENT NO. 158
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
move to table the Lankford amend-
ment No. 158, and I request the yeas
and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
Mr. MANCHIN. I second.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. There
appears to be a sufficient second.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
is necessarily absent.
The result was announced—yeas 66,
nays 33, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 18 Leg.]
YEAS—66
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Rounds
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
NAYS—33
Barrasso
Braun
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Thune
Toomey
Young
NOT VOTING—1
Booker
The motion was agreed to.
CHANGE OF VOTE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wisconsin.
Mr. JOHNSON. On rollcall vote No.
18, I voted yea. It was my intention to
vote nay.
I ask unanimous consent that I be
permitted to change my vote, as it does
not affect the outcome.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.012 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1109
February 7, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The foregoing tally has been
changed to reflect the above order.)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
AMENDMENT NO. 162 TO AMENDMENT NO. 111
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, the Land
and Conservation Fund was enacted for
a laudable goal; that is, to promote
recreational opportunities on our Fed-
eral public lands. But in recent dec-
ades, the program has regrettably
drifted far from its original intent and
has become rife with abuse.
Indeed, the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund—or LWCF, as it is
often described—has instead been used
as a primary tool for more Federal land
acquisition rather than to actually
help people access or to help the gov-
ernment care for the land we already
manage.
Through the LWCF, the Federal Gov-
ernment has added more and more land
to its already vast estate, currently to-
taling 640 million acres of land in this
country. To put that in perspective,
that is bigger than about seven major
European countries combined—and I
don’t mean their public lands; I mean
the entire countries themselves—near-
ly one-third of all land in the United
States. This is 640 million acres. That
includes a whole lot of land for the
Federal Government, and no single
owner, for that matter, could ever be
able to take care of it. But the Federal
Government is failing to take care of
these lands; make no mistake about it.
Indeed, the magnitude of unfunded
needs on these public lands is stag-
gering. There is an $18.5 billion mainte-
nance backlog on Federal lands, in-
cluding $11.6 billion in the National
Park System alone.
Wildfires have run rampant in the
West because of mismanagement and
neglect. Ill-kept roads and trails have
actually kept citizens from accessing
these national treasures, and the
American people are paying the price.
The package before us currently re-
authorizes this broken program, deny-
ing us any leverage—any real oppor-
tunity—to regularly reform the pro-
gram in the future.
Senator LANKFORD and I have offered
several amendments that would help
address this program, but at the very
least, we ought not to be permanently
reauthorizing it without any of these
conditions in place.
That is why I have offered an amend-
ment that would reauthorize for 5
years the Land and Water Conservation
Fund so that we are forced to reassess
the program at a later date and can
hopefully correct and improve the pro-
gram to actually empower the States
with recreation opportunities.
To that end, I encourage my col-
leagues to vote for this amendment.
I call up my amendment No. 162.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
The Senator from Utah [Mr. LEE] proposes
an amendment numbered 162 to amendment
No. 111.
Mr. LEE. I ask unanimous consent
that the reading of the amendment be
waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: To modify the authorization period
of the Land and Water Conservation Fund)
In section 3001, strike subsection (a) and
insert the following:
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 200302 of title 54,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘September
30, 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2023’’;
and
(2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘September
30, 2023’’.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
MOTION TO TABLE AMENDMENT NO. 162
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
stand to object to the amendment of
my friend from Utah.
We recognize the significance and im-
portance of the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund. There has been an ef-
fort for reauthorization back and forth
over the years.
Within this measure before us, we
have not only permanently authorized
LWCF, but we have included signifi-
cant reforms—reforms that I believe
are necessary and reforms that I think
the Senator from Utah would agree are
good in terms of getting more re-
sources to the State side and making
sure that there are better ways to ac-
count for the funds.
I now have an opportunity to move to
table the Lee amendment No. 162 and
would encourage Members to vote on
this tabling motion in the affirmative.
What we have collaborated to build
at this point in time is a necessary fix
to address the continuation of the
LWCF, and I ask for Members’ support.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, I also
rise to oppose the amendment of my
good friend from Utah. I oppose his
amendment, and I will be joining
Chairman MURKOWSKI when she moves
to table the bill.
In my view, this is the most signifi-
cant achievement of this broad public
lands package. For the first time, we
will be permanently reauthorizing the
Land and Water Conservation Fund.
This is the glue that holds us all to-
gether.
This is a poison pill. This will not
pass if it goes over to the House.
I encourage the adoption of tabling
this amendment.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
move to table Lee amendment 162.
I ask for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
is necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 68,
nays 30, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 19 Leg.]
YEAS—68
Alexander
Baldwin
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Ernst
Feinstein
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Hyde-Smith
Isakson
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rosen
Rounds
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Wyden
Young
NAYS—30
Barrasso
Braun
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Enzi
Fischer
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Paul
Perdue
Risch
Romney
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Toomey
Whitehouse
Wicker
NOT VOTING—2
Booker Cassidy
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. I ask for the yeas
and nays on the substitute amendment
No. 111.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The yeas and nays are ordered.
AMENDMENT NO. 112
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
call up Murkowski amendment No. 112.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the amendment.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Alaska [Ms. MURKOWSKI]
proposes an amendment numbered 112 to
amendment No. 111.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. I ask unanimous
consent that the reading of the amend-
ment be dispensed with.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The amendment is printed in the
RECORD of February 6, 2019, under
‘‘Text of Amendments.’’)
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
REMEMBERING HARRY HAMBURG
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, on Thurs-
day, January 24, a good friend of mine,
former Daily News photographer Harry
Hamburg, died. Both Marcelle and I
were in shock at the news. Harry is one
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.018 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1110 February 7, 2019
of our dearest friends, and Marcelle and
I loved him.
I have lost count of the times we
would share stories about his son Bruce
and daughter Aren, and, of course, his
grandchildren, Sophia, Ali, Dylan, and
Will. Marcelle and I especially enjoyed
the family conversations and the deep
love he had for his late wife Becky. I
think we knew more about each other’s
families than most people would. One
of us would tell a story, and the other
would say, ‘‘Oh, that reminds me,’’ and
away we would go. Those of you who
knew Harry Hamburg could see that
happening.
We also shared a love of photography.
I have an office here in the Capitol
with a great view of the Mall and the
Washington Monument, and we would
often meet there. We would talk about
photography, current events, and
friends. We called it ‘‘prayer hour with
holy water.’’ We had our own par-
ticular choices of what holy water and
what proof. Occasionally, Marcelle was
able to join us. Often, my policy ad-
viser, Kevin McDonald, was there.
And, of course, Harry was a wel-
comed friend at all of our holiday par-
ties and office gatherings.
Kevin McDonald went to the funeral
in Pennsylvania. He filled me in on
how moving it was and the things he
heard there. Even last night, when we
were at my grandson Patrick’s birth-
day party, our daughter and son-in-law,
Alicia and Lawrence, talked about the
conversations they had with Harry at
our last office gathering.
Those of us who enjoy or care about
photography can understand the cer-
tain bond we had. He had an uncanny
ability to email me the perfect picture
at the perfect time. I could be coping
with all kinds of things here in the
Senate, and a photo would arrive.
There is one Harry took in England,
South Africa, or Pennsylvania. Some I
called my warning shot. It would be a
picture he took as he walked into the
Capitol to come visit me. Every time,
it made my day better.
Anyone can use a camera. Only an
artist can take a picture that truly
lasts. He spent a lot of time in Eng-
land. All of us could take pictures of
Big Ben, the Eye, Parliament, and all
the rest. He would take pictures of a
shop on a small street or of people
looking out at a bus going by or of
walking along a beach. You would look
at that picture and say: Wow, I was
there.
He was an artist. When you saw his
pictures, whether of a current event or
from his treasure of historical pictures,
you were there. He enveloped you in
the moment.
Later, I am going to put into the
RECORD—not quite yet—his obituary.
Of course, we will not be able to show
the pictures.
I look at these pictures, and I re-
member he had one of Margot Kidder
and Christopher Reeve. They were film-
ing Superman at the New York Daily
News building.
I know for a fact that Christopher
Reeve liked that photograph, and for
those of us who saw the movie—mil-
lions and millions of dollars making
the movie—this picture captures as
much as anything else in the movie.
Or a serious one—Attorney General
Ashcroft testifies before the House, but
he gets a picture as he raises his hand
with the Great Seal of the Senate be-
hind him.
You know, we have all been to hear-
ings, and we have heard people talk
about different things.
He had two pictures of Muhammad
Ali and our friend Michael Fox speak-
ing at a Senate hearing, talking about
research for Parkinson’s disease. They
both suffered from Parkinson’s, and
they pretended to be trading punches
with each other. It was obviously in
fun, but there was not a person who
picked up the paper and saw that photo
who did not read the article about Par-
kinson’s and the need for research
funding.
That is what he would do. He envel-
oped you in the moment. You were
there. That may seem like a cliche, but
it was not. You knew what happened.
Every one of us remembers most the
photographs we have seen of historical
events. He had photographs of histor-
ical events, but he had photographs of
everyday life that made you think.
Marcelle and I knew he faced serious
surgery. His good friend Paul Hosefros
made plans to come from England. He
is a good friend of his, and he was going
to help take care of him—as well as his
good friend Pat and his son and daugh-
ter—when he recovered from the sur-
gery.
We reminded him, of course, that
Marcelle is a registered nurse. We were
ready to volunteer too. Before the sur-
gery happened, he had a massive at-
tack and died. All of us were ready to
care for him, have him come back,
take out the camera, compare photo-
graphs, have our prayer hour, whether
it was with me or with anybody else
and his friends, because he had so
many.
Both Marcelle and I loved him. The
tears we have shed are tears for the
loss of a true friend, and the memory of
Harry will always be in our hearts.
I know that no obituary could do jus-
tice to his talent, artistry, and human-
ity, but I was struck by the obituary in
the New York Daily News.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that that obituary be printed in
the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the New York Daily News, Jan. 25,
2019]
HARRY HAMBURG, LONGTIME DAILY NEWS
PHOTOGRAPHER, DIES AT 73
(By Leonard Greene)
Former Daily News photographer Harry
Hamburg, whose lens captured all that is
New York and the world for nearly 40 years,
died Thursday. He was 73.
A longtime friend, Bill Auth, said Hamburg
suffered a heart attack.
Friends and colleagues said Hamburg had
all the technical and artistic skills to take a
show-stopping picture, but what made him
stand out from the rest were his contacts.
Access, he said, was everything.
‘‘Harry was friends with everybody,’’ said
Auth, a fellow photographer who had known
Hamburg since the early 1980s. ‘‘He never
burned a bridge. He was always, always mak-
ing sure whoever he was working with got
treated right.’’
Hamburg spent most of his career taking
pictures in New York. One of his most iconic
snapshots was a picture ‘‘Superman’’ stars
Christopher Reeve and Margot Kidder inside
The News’ East Side building.
But when News editors decided they needed
more original content from the nation’s cap-
ital, they dispatched Hamburg to Wash-
ington, D.C.
Soon, Hamburg, who lived in New Jersey,
was schmoozing with Amtrak staffers, con-
versing with conductors on a first-name
basis.
Hamburg made another friend along the
way—Joe Biden, the Delaware senator who
would go on to be Vice President.
Biden was famously an Amtrak regular
who took the train from Capitol Hill to his
Delaware home every day. Hamburg learned
Biden’s schedule, and made a point to be on
the train when Biden got on in Wilmington.
‘‘He was friends with senators and friends
with elevator operators,’’ Auth said. ‘‘Every-
body really liked him once they got to know
him a little bit.’’
Mr. LEAHY. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
(The remarks of Mr. BARRASSO and
Mr. JONES pertaining to the introduc-
tion of S. 382 are printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Statements on Intro-
duced Bills and Joint Resolutions.’’)
Mr. BARRASSO. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TAX UNDERWITHHOLDING
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, the first
tax filing season under President
Trump’s mess of a tax law is upon us,
and it looks like a whole lot of chick-
ens are coming home to roost.
Republicans jammed their tax bill
through Congress at record speed—pile
driver legislating. The Trump tax bill
was signed into law with a whopping 9
days to go before the 2018 tax year was
set to begin, and after all of that land
speed record timing, there were bound
to be serious problems. There is a big
one now that lots of Americans are re-
portedly waking up to, and they are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.021 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1111
February 7, 2019
waking up now that the tax filing sea-
son has arrived. The big tax refunds
that Americans have gotten used to
could be goners now that Trump’s tax
changes are the law of the land and
many Americans might owe the gov-
ernment money.
As the ranking Democrat on the Sen-
ate Finance Committee, I am very
troubled about the prospect of what is
ahead, and I want to lay out my con-
cerns. Here is what this is all about.
Most Americans have their taxes
withheld from each paycheck, and the
Treasury redoes the math on with-
holding every year. Obviously, the
math gets more complicated when Con-
gress passes legislation like President
Trump’s tax law, which, in effect, trig-
gers a tax policy earthquake. The out-
come of these decisions about how
much to take out of everybody’s pay-
check is clearly going to have a big im-
pact.
Here is where it looks like things
went wrong, where it looks like the
Trump team decided to score short-
term political wins instead of to pro-
tect Americans from financial harm.
In election year 2018, the Trump
Treasury Department had a shiny, new
tax law on its hands, and there is no
question it wanted it to impress. It
sure looks like, back in December 2017,
the Trump administration decided to
put politics first—to lowball the esti-
mates of how much tax should be with-
held from everybody’s paycheck and
lure Americans into a false sense of se-
curity that they had gotten big tax
cuts that were courtesy of Donald
Trump.
The prospect of the Trump adminis-
tration’s buying American taxpayers
off with their own money is what you
are talking about here. It is as if the
Trump administration figured, when
the other shoe dropped and people were
to be hit with penalties for under-
payment, well, it would be springtime
2019, and the 2018 election would be be-
hind us. It could cause a lot of hurt
this spring when people who typically
get big refunds suddenly learn that
they owe the government a check.
Americans, understandably, want their
taxes to be simple and straightforward
and routine. Whether it is a few hun-
dred or a few thousand dollars, you can
understand why people would count on
getting refunds when they have gotten
the same amount back for years and
years.
I have talked to folks all over my
State about this. I have townhall meet-
ings in every county—90 minutes, open
to everybody. I don’t give any speech-
es. I am just there to let people tell me
what their takes are with respect to
what is going on back here and what
they think we ought to be doing. Or-
egonians are asking about the issue of
whether or not they are going to owe
money. The first thing they say is that
it is their money, that these are re-
funds on taxes that have been taken
out of their paychecks. We are talking
about middle-class folks, working fam-
ilies, who use their refunds to pay the
bills, to help cover tuition for a child,
or to put a downpayment on a new car
one has been needing for ages.
Here is the truth. The Trump admin-
istration did not need to put anybody
in this situation. It had the option of
delaying these withholding changes by
a year to make sure nobody took a hit.
While it was making this decision in
January of 2018—just days after the law
was enacted—the Democrats in this
body and in the other body were sound-
ing the alarm on what sort of danger
was possible this spring. I and Chair-
man NEAL, of the House Ways and
Means Committee, wrote to the Gov-
ernment Accountability Office. In rep-
resenting the Democrats in this body
and in the House, the two of us asked
what kind of impact this rush job was
going to have on working Americans
who have their income taxes withheld
from every paycheck. The Government
Accountability Office responded to
Chairman NEAL and me 7 months later.
According to the Government Ac-
countability Office’s analysis, after the
Trump tax law enactment, nearly 30
million Americans will find that they
will have underpaid their taxes in 2018.
That is millions more Americans than
before the new tax law, which is way
out of line with numbers that you
would typically see. Those are the
Americans who are in line for a shock
when they file their tax returns this
year.
Here is what the Treasury Depart-
ment is going to say. It will claim it
chose the withholding figures that
would do the least amount of harm.
Yet that just doesn’t pass the smell
test, not when it chose numbers that
underwithheld taxes at far higher rates
than usual. You are potentially talking
about millions and millions of Ameri-
cans—way more than is normal—find-
ing out that the government has been
goosing their paychecks with tax trick-
ery, and now they are going to get hit
with big tax bills. The Treasury De-
partment, I am sure, is going to say it
updated the official IRS—Internal Rev-
enue Service—withholding calculator
and sent out new withholding forms for
employers, but none of that was re-
leased until February 28—2 months
into the new tax year.
Furthermore, let’s be realistic about
the prospect of Americans flocking to
the Internal Revenue Service’s with-
holding calculator. The taxpayers who
will be potentially affected by this
underwithholding issue will be parents
with jobs to do and kids to look after.
How can you expect those people to
have spent a whole lot of time doing
tax math at the beginning of 2018 in
order to head off a problem they didn’t
know anything about and that might
show up in a filing season more than a
year later? Our working families have
lives to lead. They are not spending the
first weeks of a new year crunching the
numbers on tax withholding.
That is why I wrote to the Internal
Revenue Service’s Commissioner, Mr.
Rettig, before anybody up here had
really begun to see the challenge. I en-
couraged the Commissioner to waive
penalties for 2018, to waive tax pen-
alties for this year. I made the case
that it was the first year of a new tax
law—he was not involved in writing
it—that was jammed through the Con-
gress and enacted in way too precipi-
tous a manner. Hard-working families
should not suffer the harmful con-
sequences of political gamesmanship
on taxes. Instead of replying and work-
ing with me to find a solution, Com-
missioner Retting went ahead and said
that the best the Internal Revenue
Service could do is adjust the threshold
where penalties kick in. Instead of pe-
nalizing those who paid less than 90
percent of what they owed in 2018, he
decided that they would penalize those
who paid less than 85 percent. There is
no question that is a modest step in
the right direction, but it is my judg-
ment that the Internal Revenue Serv-
ice ought to do more and keep it sim-
ple.
As we look at the events of the up-
coming weeks, here is my bottom line:
I believe it is time for the Trump ad-
ministration to say that nobody will be
penalized for the Trump administra-
tion’s mistakes on tax withholding,
change the penalty thresholds, extend
the safe harbor—do whatever it takes
to make sure that our people are held
harmless with respect to what could
otherwise be penalties for the Trump
administration’s mistakes on tax with-
holding.
Down at the Treasury Department,
there are a lot of people with expensive
degrees hanging on their office walls. I
would like to see them put some of
that brain power to work now helping
to protect middle-class families.
My bottom line is that nobody ought
to be penalized for the Trump adminis-
tration’s mistakes on tax withholding.
After Republicans and this adminis-
tration teamed up on a $2 trillion tax
giveaway that overwhelmingly benefits
multinational corporations and those
at the very top, those who are particu-
larly powerful in America, protecting
our working families from tax policies
is the least the government can do.
Otherwise, it sure looks like a lot of
middle-class families are going to be
justifiably outraged. I know, because
they are coming up to me. They are
coming up to me here in this city, and
I know that when I have town meetings
next week at home in Oregon, I am
going to hear a lot about this. I believe
that a lot of middle-class families are
going to be justifiably outraged. I
wouldn’t blame them.
I want it understood that I believe
the next step is for the Trump adminis-
tration to move to make sure that no-
body is penalized for the Trump admin-
istration’s mistakes on tax with-
holding.
With that, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.025 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1112 February 7, 2019
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
U.S. TRADE POLICY
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, today,
I want to talk about the U.S. trade pol-
icy. This is something that affects
every one of us. It affects all the fami-
lies I represent, it affects our economy
in a big way, and it affects our rela-
tions with other countries in signifi-
cant ways.
Right now, we are fortunate to have
a strong economy. When you look at
the numbers, it is very encouraging.
The tax reforms that were put in place
at the end of 2017 and the pro-growth
regulatory relief that has been put in
place are actually doing exactly what
many of us thought they would do.
When you look at the growth projec-
tions before the tax bill and the growth
projections now, you will see that we
have had a dramatic increase. If you
look at the job projections, there is a
dramatic increase in jobs. There were
almost 2 million more jobs projected
after the tax reform bill was passed.
Why? It is because the tax reform bill
was pro-growth and pro-jobs. It helps
middle-class families, but it also helps
small businesses, like the ones I visit
all across my State of Ohio. They all
have told me: You know, this is a nice
shot in the arm for us. It gave us the
ability to invest more in our equip-
ment, in our people, and in our retire-
ment savings.
Tomorrow, I will see it again. We will
have a roundtable discussion at an
Ohio manufacturer. This company
makes tooling that is used in the avia-
tion industry. They have already told
me that they like the tax bill. I am
going to ask them tomorrow what I
ask all of these companies. I have vis-
ited with well over a dozen—several
dozen—Ohio small businesses since the
tax reform bill was passed. Specifi-
cally, I will ask them tomorrow: What
happened to your bottom line, and
what are you doing with the extra tax
savings you are getting? What I think
I will hear is what I have heard in
other places, which is, We are investing
more in people, and we are investing
more in equipment. That is great.
The latest jobs report reflects all of
this. When you look at the jobs report
from last Friday—it was for the Janu-
ary time period—it showed an impres-
sive 300,000 new jobs. That is way be-
yond expectations—302,000 new jobs in
January. It also showed wages going
up, which I think is even more impres-
sive. In Ohio, wages have been pretty
flat. In fact, for the last decade and a
half, on average, wages have not gone
above inflation. So when people say
they are feeling the squeeze, they are.
Expenses are up. Healthcare costs are
up. Other expenses are up. Yet wages
have been flat. I think that is one rea-
son people feel that despite working
hard and doing everything they were
asked to do, they were not able to get
ahead. Now they can feel they are get-
ting ahead a little bit. If you look at
the numbers from Friday, they indi-
cate a 3.2-percent growth in wages for
supervisory jobs, and for non-
supervisory jobs—you might think of
those as more blue-collar jobs—there
was a 3.4-percent increase in wages.
That is just what we want. We want to
see those wages starting to go up. This
is above inflation.
By the way, the wage growth over
the past 12 months is the highest it has
been since before the great recession a
decade ago. Finally, we are sort of
climbing out of this great recession,
and we are seeing the kinds of numbers
we all hoped for.
This is all good news. Again, a lot of
it is due to the fact that in this body
and in the House, we passed legislation
that helped to stimulate more eco-
nomic growth, more jobs, and higher
wages.
What I am concerned about is that
we not do something now to jeopardize
that economic growth. This is where
trade policy is a risk. Some would say
it is already putting a damper on what
would otherwise be even greater
growth. But what I am more concerned
about than anything is the possibility
that, as a country, we start to put
more and more tariffs in place without
showing that the imports coming in
from other countries are being traded
unfairly. That is what our trade laws
basically say. They say: OK, if another
country doesn’t deal with us fairly, we
get to level the playing field. So if they
are sending their products to us and
they are not fair, meaning that they
are subsidized by the government,
which happens a lot in nonmarket
economies particularly—think of
China—or they are sold at below their
cost, which is called dumping—if they
are dumping their products on us, that
is not fair, is it? We have trade laws to
deal with that.
I believe in trade, but I also believe
strongly in trade enforcement. My leg-
islation with Senator BROWN called the
Level the Playing Field Act has helped
us win these trade cases when these
countries are dumping. As an example,
there is a 269-percent tariff—that is a
high tariff—on some products from
China, such as rolled steel products.
Why? Because we showed that they
were, in fact, not following the rules by
subsidizing and dumping. We should do
that.
There are also parts of our trade law
that say: OK, on a temporary basis—
temporary relief—we should be able to
respond when another country sends a
surge of imports into our country and
there is material damage to a U.S. in-
dustry. So if there is a surge of imports
and a U.S. company is materially dam-
aged, we have a way to respond to that
too. It is not permanent relief, but it
says: Wait a minute. Let’s let these
companies get back on their feet and
let these workers keep their jobs while
we deal with the surge of imports and
figure this out. That is kind of how our
trade policy works, consistent with the
international rules. If there is some un-
fairness, then we are able to respond.
Right now, we are doing this with
China. The 301 law is being used to say
to China: We are going to increase tar-
iffs on your products because you are
not trading fairly with us. You are
using nontariff barriers. You are not
treating our intellectual property prop-
erly. You are forcing our businesses—
to be able to work in China, many of
them have to have joint ventures or
special licenses. That is not fair. We
want to level that playing field. That is
the purpose of those tariffs.
I think most people get that and un-
derstand it and support it. Even those
who believe in more of a pure free-
trade mentality know that we
shouldn’t allow cheating and that we
should help to level the playing field.
The problem is that over the last cou-
ple of years, we have started to use a
part of our trade law that really is an
exception to all of that. That is called
the national security exception, which
is also called section 232.
Section 232 of the Trade Expansion
Act of 1962 has been in place now for 57
years. It has been used only half a
dozen times in 57 years. Why? Because
it is kind of a dangerous tool.
When you think about it, as Ameri-
cans, all we have to say is, this is a na-
tional security issue, and therefore we
are going to put tariffs on your prod-
uct. You don’t have to prove anything,
as I talked about earlier. You don’t
have to prove that an industry has
been damaged. You certainly don’t
have to prove that the other country is
sending product that is dumped—sold
at below its cost—or that is subsidized.
You don’t have to show a surge of im-
ports. All you have to do is say ‘‘This
is a national security issue for us’’ and
put your tariffs in place. When you do
that, guess what other countries do to
you. They put their own tariffs in place
because they are looking at this and
thinking: Oh my gosh, so the United
States is just putting these tariffs in
place without demonstrating that this
is a trade-enforcement measure be-
cause of unfairness or damage to their
industries.
Frankly, many of these countries are
happy to put more protectionist tariffs
in place. It kind of works for them, too,
because in many countries, that sort of
approach is a more populous approach,
in places such as Europe or the Middle
East or Asia or Africa. They say: OK.
We are going to put tariffs in place.
That is often applauded, but who gets
hurt? The consumers in both countries
get hurt. Think of that. Everybody has
higher costs, higher taxes, higher tar-
iffs on both sides, and eventually you
end up building up tariffs to the point
that it can be really dangerous for the
economy.
That is my concern with section 232,
the national security exception to our
trade laws. Do I think it is a tool we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.026 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1113
February 7, 2019
ought to have in the toolbox? Abso-
lutely. I think that if there is a true
national security concern, we ought to
have section 232 there to ensure that
we can respond.
As an example, if we are at a time of
war and we need to be able to produce
tanks in this country and we don’t
have any steel production here, in my
view, it would be appropriate for us to
put some tariffs in place and to help a
domestic industry be able to provide
that steel. Frankly, that is another av-
enue that other countries would take
with us if they had a true national se-
curity concern. So there is a sort of
level playing field there. That is per-
mitted under the World Trade Organi-
zation rules, and other countries would
do it as well, but, in my view, the way
we have used it in the last couple of
years is a little different.
Again, I think trade enforcement is
very important. I am a hawk on going
after countries that are not treating us
fairly. I think with regard to China and
its overcapacity of steel, it is a huge
issue. That is one reason we have these
huge tariffs in place on Chinese steel.
Then they transship it through other
countries, and we have to be much
tougher on that. We have legislation
called the ENFORCE Act. Senator
WYDEN was here on the floor a moment
ago. He and I have worked on that to-
gether. That is important. Frankly, in
my view, we need to do more to enforce
that to keep China from going around
to a third country and then sending it
to the United States, if it is steel that
is dumped or subsidized. But to say
that with regard to countries that are
our allies and countries that we trade
with every day, we are going to use
this national security exception, the
232, I have to tell you, I think that
causes real problems, and we have seen
it. Other countries have done what?
They have increased their tariffs on us.
Think of Canada. When you put tar-
iffs on Canada saying it is a national
security concern—even though, by the
way, with regard to steel, a product we
sell more to Canada than they send to
us. We send more steel to them from
the United States than they do to us,
and yet we are saying: It is a national
security concern with your steel from
Canada so we are going to slap on a
tariff, say, 25 percent. What does Can-
ada do? They turn around and put tar-
iffs on our products.
We have gotten hit on that in Ohio
because Canada is our No. 1 trading
partner. We send more stuff to Canada
than any other country—much more.
Our farmers in Ohio, our manufactur-
ers in Ohio are nervous because they
are seeing tariffs going up on their
products going to Canada because Can-
ada is retaliating because they don’t
see this as a fair thing we are doing.
They don’t think it is a national secu-
rity threat.
Section 232 was designed, I think
properly, to deal with real national se-
curity threats. I think it ought to be
preserved for that. I think it ought to
be used for that. I think we ought to
aggressively go after countries that are
trading unfairly, and when there is a
surge and when there is a proven mate-
rial damage to a U.S. industry, we
ought to respond, but I think we have
to be careful as to how we do it. I think
we are otherwise inviting this esca-
lation of tariffs on both sides, which is
exactly what is happening.
I am pleased to say that yesterday a
group of us introduced legislation to
try to get back to the original purpose
of section 232. It is called the Trade Se-
curity Act. I introduced it last year.
We reintroduced it again yesterday. I
introduced it along with my colleagues
DOUG JONES, JONI ERNST, DIANNE FEIN-
STEIN, LAMAR ALEXANDER, DEB FISCH-
ER, TODD YOUNG, KYRSTEN SINEMA, and
ROGER WICKER—not a group of Mem-
bers you would see on every piece of
legislation; some on the left, some on
the right, some Republican, some
Democratic—but a group who all agree,
in this case, it is best for us to have
some constraints on 232 to take it back
to its original purpose, which is really
for national security.
With regard to steel and aluminum
and the 232 tariffs that were put in
place back in 2017—you may know this,
but when the administration was asked
to opine on it, the Department of De-
fense said it is not a national security
threat. That is now public. The memo
from the Department of Defense said:
We have enough steel production in
this country to take care of our mili-
tary needs. It is not a national security
issue for us.
The Department of Commerce had a
different view. Their view was that this
is, broadly speaking, a national secu-
rity threat so we should put these tar-
iffs in place—again, without having to
show injury or damage or without hav-
ing to show unfairness.
Our legislation is a response to that.
It doesn’t affect what has happened in
the past; it is prospective. What it does
say is, going forward, we ought to have
to prove it is a national security
threat.
By the way, one reason this legisla-
tion is timely is, the administration
has said they are now interested in
putting additional 232 tariffs in place,
potentially—and I say potentially be-
cause I hope they will not—not on steel
and aluminum only but also on auto-
mobiles and auto parts.
There is a lot of nervousness about
that. I talked earlier about our strong
economy and working with the admin-
istration what we have been able to do
on regulatory relief and on tax cuts
and tax reforms. That is all good. I
would tell you, the trade policy issues
on 232 are making a lot of people nerv-
ous. There is a lot of uncertainty about
what might happen, particularly with
regard to autos and auto parts now.
In just a few weeks, the Commerce
Department is required to release its
report on 232. They will make a rec-
ommendation to the President on
whether to proceed with 232. A lot of
people, including a lot of folks in the
U.S. auto industry and suppliers, are
very concerned that the Commerce De-
partment might find that auto imports
threaten our Nation’s security, and
they will recommend the President
take action. In my view, again, this
would be a misuse of our trade tools.
This is supposed to be for national se-
curity concerns. I don’t think minivans
from Canada pose a national security
threat to the United States of America.
I do know it poses a threat to the
workers I represent. It is going to be
bad for the auto industry and bad for
its workers. By the way, all three of
the Big Three U.S. auto manufacturers
are against extending 232 to auto-
mobiles, and that is why they are sup-
portive of our legislation.
I want to see more cars made in Ohio.
I am OK if they are made in other
States, too, but I want to see them
made in America. I don’t want to see
more cars being made offshore. That is
what I am concerned is going to happen
if those tariffs go into place. Why? Be-
cause it is going to be a lot more ex-
pensive to make a car here. These cars
are global cars now. The supply chains
are all over the place. They end up
being made in our States—including in
Ohio, where we have a strong auto in-
dustry, and we love that, and strong
suppliers—but they bring parts in from
around the world.
The analysis I have seen shows that
if we put 232 on automobiles, it would
increase the cost of making a car in
the United States by about $2,000—
$2,000 a car. For imported vehicles, the
cost would likely increase to about
$6,000 a car.
Think for a moment about the im-
pact on the families we talked about
earlier who are finally seeing their
wages begin to creep up. Working fami-
lies who have played by the rules, have
done everything right, are finally see-
ing this economy be strong enough
that there is wage growth happening
above inflation, and now they are told:
Guess what. You want a new car? It is
$2,000 more for your new car. That
means that car payment is going to be
a lot more. That means, frankly, I
think a lot of people will delay buying
a car. That is not good for the auto in-
dustry. I think it is something we
should try to avoid.
Second, compounding these costs is
the fact that, guess who is going to be
in the crosshairs of retaliation if this
happens: the auto industry.
Guess what our No. 1 export is from
the United States of America in value,
the No. 1 export of any product: cars
and auto parts. Automobiles and auto
parts are our No. 1 export. It is very
likely, if we put in these tariffs on a
national security basis, not because of
unfairness, not because it is a surge,
not because of the domestic industry
being materially damaged—which is
part of the international rules that
people understand—but if we do it be-
cause of our national security excep-
tion, it is very likely, and I think it is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.028 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1114 February 7, 2019
sure, that we are going to see retalia-
tion, tariffs going up on their side,
which again is going to hurt our coun-
try because one of every five cars and
light trucks built in America is built
for export, and we export a lot of auto
parts, the No. 1 export. I am worried it
is going to put a target on the auto-
workers in Ohio and elsewhere if we
move forward with this.
The Peterson Institute for Inter-
national Economics estimates that sec-
tion 232 auto tariffs would put 195,000
American jobs at risk. They also say,
when retaliation is included, that
jumps to potentially 624,000 American
jobs on the chopping block. That is the
Peterson Institute for International
Economics. Check out their data on
the website and see what you think. It
is a big risk. That is the point.
These auto tariffs don’t work; they
don’t work for farmers; they don’t
work for workers in other industries;
they don’t work, in my view, for our
autoworkers because of this big risk we
are talking about. About 25 percent of
our State’s factory workers are export
workers in Ohio. Exports are really im-
portant to us. We want more exports.
We want people to knock down their
barriers to let us send more of our
great ‘‘Made in Ohio’’ and ‘‘Made in
America’’ products to them.
About one of every three acres plant-
ed in Ohio is planted for export: soy-
beans, corn, wheat. We want more mar-
kets because we want higher prices.
Prices are low right now, partly be-
cause other countries are retaliating
against us on agriculture. We want to
open more of those markets to create
more jobs and higher prices for our
farmers.
Trade jobs, by the way, are good jobs
too. These export jobs pay well—on av-
erage, 16 percent higher than other
jobs. So it is not only more jobs, it is
better jobs.
Instead of inviting retaliation and
closing off international markets, we
want policies that are going to open
more markets. Cracking down on un-
fair trade—yes, absolutely. Cheating
should never be acceptable. A level
playing field is important, and there is
not reciprocity now. We are a more
open and free market than most other
countries. So, yes, but let’s do it based
on the rules, based on fairness, and
based on the kind of policies that
aren’t going to invite retaliation.
It is not only that national security
is something we ought to use judi-
ciously. When minivans from an ally
like Canada are considered a national
security threat, something is wrong,
but it is also that this could be much
broader than just autos.
After the Finance Committee’s hear-
ing on section 232 last summer, I asked
the Commerce Department a question
for the record about whether they be-
lieved there was an industry—any in-
dustry—in America that could not
meet the national security criteria in
section 232. Their response indicated
they believe potentially every industry
in America could meet that criteria. So
it could move from autos to other in-
dustries, as far as they are concerned,
even when, again, there is no sense
that industry is under pressure, is ma-
terially injured, or where there is un-
fairness in the trade.
I think that is a huge departure from
what this Congress meant 57 years ago
when they wrote section 232. It was
meant to be for national security. Let’s
keep it to that. Let’s use our other
trade laws appropriately and aggres-
sively for other instances.
During the debate over section 232,
Representative COOPER from Ten-
nessee, the chairman of the Ways and
Means Committee—the committee in
the House that deals with trade—un-
derscored the importance of the stat-
ute as a national security tool. He said:
The [purpose of the] national security ex-
ception is to protect and preserve the na-
tional security. That is its sole purpose. It is
not intended to serve as a device to afford
protection to those industries who might
claim it.
Don’t take the chairman’s word for
it. I refer you to the Cabinet Task
Force on Oil Import Controls report. In
1970, President Richard Nixon directed
Secretary of Labor George Shultz—a
friend of mine who was later Secretary
of State—to conduct a comprehensive
analysis of the national security impli-
cations of oil imports, and it remains
today the best historical resources we
have on the proper meaning of section
232. The report states:
No determination under section 232 or its
predecessors have ever been made on the
ground of economic impact alone. And in a
generally healthy economy it cannot be pre-
sumed that unrestricted trade in any one
sector would by itself impair the national se-
curity.
That was George Shultz. As I see it,
with our economic growth and job cre-
ation right now, a trade deficit alone in
automobile parts would appear insuffi-
cient to trigger restrictions based on
national security.
With this history in mind, it is worth
noting that the 232 statute has been
used, again, very infrequently since
1962. We can find only a half dozen
cases when it has been used. There
have been 26 investigations. Only six
times did the President take action. By
the way, before this administration
took action in 2017, the last one was 33
years ago in 1986. Again, one reason it
has hardly ever been used is because it
is viewed as an exception to our trade
laws. You don’t have to show injury to
a domestic industry. You don’t have to
show a surge or unfair trade in any
way. You don’t have to show that there
is something under the international
rules that gives you the ability to im-
pose those tariffs that then don’t result
in retaliation from others.
I remember, after President George
W. Bush was elected, there was concern
about doing something to help our
steel industry at the time. We needed
help in the steel industry, and section
232 was looked at. They investigated it
at the President’s request. In that case,
the Commerce Department came back
and said it is not a national security
issue. So the President used another
part of the trade law, an appropriate
part, where he had to make some of
these showings about material damage
to the industry, which is section 201 in
the trade laws.
Section 232 has been narrowly defined
until now. I think we need to get back
to that proper definition. That is ex-
actly why we need this legislation.
Misusing section 232 and the national
security rationale not only leads to
other countries increasing tariffs, but
it also, in my view, risks us losing the
tool altogether. I think we ought to
keep the tool. I think it is an impor-
tant tool to have as part of our re-
sponse if there is a true national secu-
rity—but if you misuse it, I believe
what is going to happen is that the
World Trade Organization is going to
find that we no longer have this abil-
ity.
Why do I say that? Because there are
already cases in the WTO, the World
Trade Organization, against the United
States. These cases are saying that 232
has been improperly used. They are
saying because they filed these cases
against us, they would like to have a
decision by the WTO. I think we run a
greater risk of losing this tool if the
administration moves forward with
autos and auto parts, and I think that
is a real problem. The WTO could say
that the United States can no longer
use this national security tool. I would
rather use it properly and be able to
keep the tool.
Yesterday, when we introduced this
legislation. We addressed the misuse of
this tool. We said we wanted to pre-
serve it for national security threats. I
want to thank, in particular, Chairman
CHUCK GRASSLEY of the Finance Com-
mittee for his very positive comments
that he has consistently made about
the Trade Security Act, last year and
again this year.
This week, he talked about how he
would like to work with us to get this
proposal done. What does the proposal
do?
First, it ensures that the proper ex-
perts of the government determine at
the outset whether it is a national se-
curity threat or not. I mentioned that
right now it is housed in the Commerce
Department. It should be in the De-
partment of Defense. They are the ex-
perts who determine the national secu-
rity basis for import restrictions.
Under our legislation, if the Depart-
ment of Defense does determine
through their research that there is a
national security threat, then, it goes
to the Commerce Department. The
Commerce Department is in charge of
the remedy, which is appropriate. By
the way, with regard to steel, we know
that the Department of Defense said
that this is not a national security
issue. At the end, of course, the Presi-
dent still makes the decision. But it is
a two-step process to get there, which
I think is very important.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.030 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1115
February 7, 2019
Second, the bill gives Congress a
voice in this. It allows Congress the op-
portunity to disapprove of a section 232
action by passing a joint resolution.
Currently, Congress can disapprove of
232 actions through a joint resolution,
but only with regard to oil, because
when this was last used back during
the oil embargoes, Congress reacted by
saying: Well, with regard to oil, you
have to have our approval after the
fact.
I will tell you that our bill is not the
only legislation on this topic. Other
legislative approaches go further, and I
think they effectively take away the
national security tool by saying that
instead of a motion of disapproval after
the fact, there has to be a motion of
approval from Congress to move for-
ward.
I believe that under the Constitution,
the congressional article I responsibil-
ities—including commerce between the
nations—require us to have a voice in
this, but I also believe the administra-
tion needs to have the ability to react
quickly to a true national security
threat and not have to go through Con-
gress, which sometimes, as you may
have heard, takes some time. We tend
to get tied up in knots up here quite a
lot.
I like our approach better. I think it
is about protecting auto States and ex-
port States from the consequences of
misusing 232 in the future, but it does
it in the appropriate way. This is about
stopping retaliation against our farm-
ers and our workers. It is not retro-
active, but it is prospective, saying:
Let’s get the broadest consensus pos-
sible among industry, among Members
of Congress, and within the Finance
Committee to get something done here
that takes us back to the original in-
tent of section 232. Again, when prop-
erly used, it can be an important part
of our trade enforcement arsenal for
real national security concerns. We
want to keep it for that. It should not
be used inappropriately as it has been,
in my view, without showing the na-
tional security threat. My hope is that
this legislation now can move quickly
through the Finance Committee and
the Ways and Means Committee so
that we can put in place something
that makes sense to refocus on the
original intent.
Ultimately, I believe the economic
and legal case for 232 tariffs on auto-
mobiles going forward cannot be made.
I believe that is why we need reform.
Let’s restore this important tool to
Congress’s original intentions. Let’s be
sure section 232 is used appropriately
and selectively for genuine national
reasons.
The strength of our economy, as I
said earlier, comes from the right poli-
cies, but, ultimately, it comes from
hard-working and innovative Ameri-
cans in the shops and the plants—as I
will see tomorrow in the Ohio plants I
mentioned earlier—and the farms
around our States that send products
all around the globe. We want more of
that. They deserve a level playing
field. We should give them the chance
to compete.
Let’s be sure that our trade policy
doesn’t result in escalating tariffs that
hurt those very workers, those very
farmers, and families. Let’s find the
right balance, including restoring im-
portant national security tools by not
misusing it. I urge my colleagues to
join us in supporting the Trade Secu-
rity Act to help do just that.
I yield back my time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
TRIBUTE TO CAMDYN CLANCY
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, it has
been a few weeks since I have been able
to come to the floor and speak about
an Alaskan in my State who is making
the State a much better place. It is one
of my favorite times of the week. I
think it is one of the pages’ favorite
times of the week, by the way. Nearly
every week when we are in session, I
come down to the floor and bring at-
tention to someone in Alaska who is
doing something that may be is recog-
nized by the country, by the State, or
maybe by the community, or maybe
not recognized at all. We like to cele-
brate this person. We call that person
our Alaskan of the Week.
Alaska can feel a little bit far away
from the rest of the country—a little
bit like our own country sometimes,
given our distance—but it is definitely
part of this great Nation.
Although we don’t have a major pro-
fessional sports team—some actually
say the professional sport of Alaska is
politics—just like the rest of America,
we love our sports. Of course, we are
big fans of winter sports—hockey,
cross-country skiing, snow-machining,
dog mushing, ice skating. But we are
also pretty big football fans.
Just like Americans throughout the
country, last Sunday we were with
family and friends tuned into Amer-
ica’s most watched sporting event of
the year, the Super Bowl. Many Alas-
kans watched the Super Bowl this year
with special interest because we caught
sight of one of our own—our Alaskan of
the Week, Camdyn Clancy.
Let me talk a little bit about
Camdyn. Last time I was here a couple
of weeks ago, I recognized our oldest
Alaskan of the Week ever, 100-year-old
Urban Rahoi, from Fairbanks, AK. He
is a great American and a World War II
veteran, and he is from the greatest
generation. He is 100 years old.
This week, Camdyn, who is 8 years
old, is our youngest Alaskan of the
Week to date. We are really proud of
him just for that. Camdyn lives in Ju-
neau, our State’s capital, with his
mother Hannah, who is a medical tech-
nician at Bartlett Hospital, and his fa-
ther Brett, who is a firefighter. Last
week, Camdyn experienced the dream
of a lifetime for a young boy, which
was made possible after he won the
NFL PLAY 60 Super Kid contest.
What is that? On Super Bowl Sunday,
Camdyn delivered the official game
ball to the officiating crew just before
kickoff, which is a pretty big deal for
an 8-year-old. The days leading up to
the game, he acted as the NFL’s offi-
cial kid correspondent, interviewing
several Rams and Patriots players. You
might have seen some of his interviews
on the internet. They have literally
gone viral.
What did he do to win the trip? For
one, Camdyn loves all sports, but he
really loves football. In fact, his par-
ents took him to a Seattle Seahawks
game when he was just 4 years old.
Like I said, he really loves football,
and it showed as he was competing to
win this national Super Bowl competi-
tion. He showed it during a video that
his mom Hannah filmed in front of
Mendenhall Glacier in Juneau, AK,
where his dedication to the game of
football really shone through.
He has played the past 4 seasons in
the Juneau Youth Football League,
coming off his own championship sea-
son, where he was the star quarterback
of the team. When he gets home from
school, he practices football every sin-
gle night. He encourages others—the
whole neighborhood, in fact—to play,
including boys, girls, and anyone who
will throw the football around with
him.
It is not always easy to play football
on your street in Alaska in the winter.
By the time school is out, depending
where you are in the State—but for
most of the State—the sun has already
set. It is usually snowy. What does
Camdyn do? He wears a headlamp to
practice football in the winter in Alas-
ka. That is dedication. His mother
said: ‘‘He faces challenges that a lot of
kids in the lower 48 don’t.’’ She said
that is probably why he won this huge
Super Bowl football contest.
The Super Bowl officials saw this
dedicated young man in Alaska who
loves football. He also probably knows
more football stats than any other kid
in Alaska. In the community, he is
known as the football ‘‘Rain Man’’
with his stats on football.
The Super Bowl players this year got
a lot of questions from reporters, and
Camdyn was one of them, as the offi-
cial youth correspondent for the NFL.
For example, he got to ask Rams’ quar-
terback Jared Goff what was going
through his head when Greg Zuerlein
kicked the 57-yard field goal that
clinched the NFC Championship Game
against the Saints.
‘‘I was nervous,’’ Goff told Camdyn.
‘‘I was really nervous. It hit me right
then that if he makes this, we are
going to the Super Bowl.’’
He also got to interview the Patriots’
star quarterback, Tom Brady, who
smiled at Camdyn and shook his hand
when Camdyn approached with a
microphone in hand to interview Tom
Brady before the game.
Here was his question to quarterback
Tom Brady: ‘‘How are you able to focus
despite the negative fan base . . . AKA,
the haters?’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.031 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1116 February 7, 2019
After a laugh, Tom Brady said: ‘‘We
love them. We love them right back.
We don’t hate back.’’
That is a classy answer from one of
the game’s greatest. Camdyn later
called the interview with Tom Brady
‘‘mind blowing.’’ He loved it. After he
attended media day, we actually
reached out to Camdyn and asked him
what he learned during the event at
the Super Bowl. He said: ‘‘Some of the
players get a bad rap, but when you
speak to them, they are really nice—
like Ndamukong Suh. He was really
nice.’’
Camdyn said he loves the physical as-
pect of the game of football. He loves
winning, and he loves the competition,
but what he and his parents really love
is how it can mold a person’s character
through hard work and perseverance.
Being a good person is also key,
Camdyn said. ‘‘That really reflects the
performance and how much people
want to play.’’
When asked what he wants to do
when he is older, of course, Camdyn
mentioned two potential professional
paths. One, of course, is to be a pro
football quarterback. I think he has a
lot of potential to do that. The next
would be a firefighter, just like his dad.
Camdyn, thank you for representing
Alaska last week at the Super Bowl in
Atlanta. We were so proud of you.
Thanks for being an inspiration to
your community and our State.
Thanks to the NFL for inspiring kids
like Camdyn, and thanks to Brad and
Hannah Clancy for raising such a great
kid. Congratulations on winning the
NFL PLAY 60 Super Kid contest, and
congratulations on being our Alaskan
of the Week—the youngest Alaskan of
the Week ever. Great job, Camdyn.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
TAX CHALLENGES OF DIGITALIZATION
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
want to express my strong concern
about various countries and a lot of
places in the world potentially imple-
menting discriminatory tax laws.
These laws that they are thinking
about target U.S.-based multinational
companies operating particularly in
the high-tech or the digital industry.
Let me be clear right from the out-
set. These countries—mostly in Eu-
rope—should immediately cease any
unilateral actions that target U.S.-
based multinationals. Instead, these
countries should focus their energy and
their efforts on the multilateral solu-
tions that are being developed by the
global community operating as the
OECD.
I will provide a bit of background for
those who haven’t been following this
issue closely.
Recently, the European Commission
proposed a 3-percent digital services
tax on the revenues of multinational
companies that provide certain digital
services to users based in Europe. The
tax would not be on profits but, in-
stead, on revenues. By its design, this
proposal would specifically target U.S.-
based multinational companies.
Implementing such a discriminatory
proposal would have required the unan-
imous approval of the European Union
member states. Fortunately, for Amer-
ican companies, the European Union
did not go ahead with that proposal.
However, some of the European
Union nations see a large pot of money
that they can extract from U.S.-based
multinationals. They are currently
taking unilateral steps to implement
new digital taxes that are the same as
or are similar to those proposed by the
European Commission that the Euro-
pean Commission has decided not to
move forward with. To be clear, these
types of taxes are discriminatory. They
target U.S.-based multinationals. They
will likely result in double taxation,
and they will create a new trans-
atlantic trade barrier. These effects
will then come just as we head into ne-
gotiations for a new trade agreement
with the European Union. This is the
exact opposite direction in which our
transatlantic trading relationship
should be going.
Last October, then-Finance Com-
mittee Chairman Hatch and Ranking
Member WYDEN sent a letter to the
Presidents of the European Council and
the European Commission. Hatch and
WYDEN expressed strong concerns
about these indefinite and discrimina-
tory digital services taxes targeting
U.S.-based multinational companies.
The Senators called on the European
Union to abandon the proposal and for
member states to delay implementing
any similar type of digital services tax.
Instead, the Senators argued that the
EU member states should refocus their
efforts on reaching consensus on a mul-
tilateral solution at the OECD.
I happen to concur with the senti-
ments of those Senators and echo the
concerns that Hatch and WYDEN raised
in that letter. In fact, I reinforced
those concerns in a letter with Rank-
ing Member WYDEN that we sent to
Treasury Secretary Mnuchin just last
week. We encouraged the U.S. Treasury
Department to stay closely engaged
with the OECD and the negotiations
that are going on in that organization.
WYDEN and I also urged the U.S. Treas-
ury Department to encourage its coun-
terparts at the OECD to abandon any
unilateral action and to work together
on a consensus solution.
OECD members, for years, have rec-
ognized tax challenges surrounding the
so-called digitalization of the economy.
The issues played a significant role in
the OECD’s tax base erosion and profit-
shifting project, and that happened
several years ago. It was also promi-
nent in the 2018 interim report on the
tax challenges of the digitalization of
the broader economy. Just last week,
the OECD released a document that
outlined at a very high level the
timeline for the multilateral consider-
ation of the issues and potential paths
forward regarding the tax challenges
arising from digitalization.
I look forward to the Treasury De-
partment’s participation in this very
important negotiation. It would prob-
ably be doing it anyway, but we want
to reinforce, as members and leaders of
the Finance Committee, our interest in
the Treasury Department’s not letting
that slip.
I also encourage nations around the
world to participate and allow this
process to play out. The alternative is
not acceptable because it is discrimina-
tory unilateral action, double taxation,
and has potentially negative trade im-
plications. The results are no good out-
comes for countries that impose the
taxes and no good outcomes for compa-
nies that are the subjects of the taxes—
mainly this country, the United
States.
In our letter last week, Ranking
Member WYDEN and I encouraged
Treasury Department officials and
their counterparts to reach a consensus
on a measured and comprehensive ap-
proach to this issue. We also asked the
Treasury Department to keep us in-
formed of the solutions that are being
developed and of the progress being
made at the OECD. Since he is tasked
with leading our trade negotiations
with the European Union, we also
shared this letter with Ambassador
Robert Lighthizer.
Given that the Finance Committee
has jurisdiction over tax and trade
matters, my colleagues and I will have
views on the position taken by the
United States in the OECD negotia-
tions. We all want to see a good out-
come for both the U.S.-based multi-
national companies and for the tax
base of the United States. We must
avoid international tax chaos where
significant double taxation is the
norm. This is in the interest of the
United States. I hope other countries
around the world will reach the conclu-
sion that it is in their interests as well.
Other countries should not view the
participation of the United States in
this OECD exercise simply as academic
or a delay tactic. On the contrary, the
United States has shown that it takes
action on multilateral initiatives. Lim-
itations on interest deductibility and
anti-hybrid rules are just a few exam-
ples of the items enacted into U.S. tax
law, and the Treasury Department and
the Internal Revenue Service took reg-
ulatory action on various other initia-
tives.
I think it is worth reiterating that I
am invested in this process and in
reaching a viable, long-term, multilat-
eral solution. I look forward to staying
in close contact with the Treasury De-
partment as the negotiations progress.
I also intend to bring up in the Finance
Committee issues related to this OECD
negotiation and the Treasury Depart-
ment’s positions. If appropriate, we
will look into legislative or other ac-
tions to address solutions reached at
the OECD as well as unilateral actions
that are taken by other countries.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.032 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1117
February 7, 2019
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk for
the bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on Calendar
No. 7, S. 47, a bill to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes
Mitch McConnell, Lisa Murkowski,
Kevin Cramer, Mike Braun, Mike
Rounds, Mike Crapo, Michael B. Enzi,
Steve Daines, John Cornyn, John
Thune, Thom Tillis, Tom Cotton, Rich-
ard Burr, Shelley Moore Capito, Rob
Portman, Todd Young.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the man-
datory quorum call be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that it be in
order to move to proceed to Executive
Calendar No. 14 during today’s session
of the Senate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 14.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant bill clerk read
the nomination of William Pelham
Barr, of Virginia, to be Attorney Gen-
eral.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of William Pelham Barr, of Virginia,
to be United States Attorney General.
Mitch McConnell, Thom Tillis, John
Boozman, Johnny Isakson, Mike Crapo,
Pat Roberts, John Hoeven, Shelley
Moore Capito, Roger F. Wicker, John
Barrasso, Joni Ernst, John Thune,
John Cornyn, Jerry Moran, Chuck
Grassley, Todd Young, Richard Burr.
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE ON AGRI-
CULTURE, NUTRITION, AND FOR-
ESTRY RULES OF PROCEDURE
Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. President, the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry has adopted rules gov-
erning its procedures for the 116th Con-
gress. Pursuant to rule XXVI, para-
graph 2, of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, on behalf of myself and Sen-
ator STABENOW, I ask unanimous con-
sent that a copy of the committee rules
be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE,
NUTRITION, AND FORESTRY
116TH CONGRESS
RULE 1—MEETINGS
1.1 Regular Meetings.—Regular meetings
shall be held on the first and third Wednes-
day of each month when Congress is in ses-
sion.
1.2 Additional Meetings.—The Chairman,
in consultation with the ranking minority
member, may call such additional meetings
as he deems necessary.
1.3 Notification.—In the case of any meet-
ing of the committee, other than a regularly
scheduled meeting, the clerk of the com-
mittee shall notify every member of the
committee of the time and place of the meet-
ing and shall give reasonable notice which,
except in extraordinary circumstances, shall
be at least 24 hours in advance of any meet-
ing held in Washington, DC, and at least 48
hours in the case of any meeting held outside
Washington, DC.
1.4 Called Meeting.—If three members of
the committee have made a request in writ-
ing to the Chairman to call a meeting of the
committee, and the Chairman fails to call
such a meeting within 7 calendar days there-
after, including the day on which the written
notice is submitted, a majority of the mem-
bers may call a meeting by filing a written
notice with the clerk of the committee who
shall promptly notify each member of the
committee in writing of the date and time of
the meeting.
1.5 Adjournment of Meetings.—The Chair-
man of the committee or a subcommittee
shall be empowered to adjourn any meeting
of the committee or a subcommittee if a
quorum is not present within 15 minutes of
the time scheduled for such meeting.
RULE 2—MEETINGS AND HEARINGS IN GENERAL
2.1 Open Sessions.—Business meetings and
hearings held by the committee or any sub-
committee shall be open to the public except
as otherwise provided for in Senate Rule
XXVI, paragraph 5.
2.2 Transcripts.—A transcript shall be kept
of each business meeting and hearing of the
committee or any subcommittee unless a
majority of the committee or the sub-
committee agrees that some other form of
permanent record is preferable.
2.3 Reports.—An appropriate opportunity
shall be given the Minority to examine the
proposed text of committee reports prior to
their filing or publication. In the event there
are supplemental, minority, or additional
views, an appropriate opportunity shall be
given the Majority to examine the proposed
text prior to filing or publication.
2.4 Attendance.—(a) Meetings. Official at-
tendance of all markups and executive ses-
sions of the committee shall be kept by the
committee clerk. Official attendance of all
subcommittee markups and executive ses-
sions shall be kept by the subcommittee
clerk. (b) Hearings. Official attendance of all
hearings shall be kept, provided that, Sen-
ators are notified by the committee Chair-
man and ranking minority member, in the
case of committee hearings, and by the sub-
committee Chairman and ranking minority
member, in the case of subcommittee hear-
ings, 48 hours in advance of the hearing that
attendance will be taken. Otherwise, no at-
tendance will be taken. Attendance at all
hearings is encouraged.
RULE 3—HEARING PROCEDURES
3.1 Notice.—Public notice shall be given of
the date, place, and subject matter of any
hearing to be held by the committee or any
subcommittee at least 1 week in advance of
such hearing unless the Chairman of the full
committee or the subcommittee determines
that the hearing is noncontroversial or that
special circumstances require expedited pro-
cedures and a majority of the committee or
the subcommittee involved concurs. In no
case shall a hearing be conducted with less
than 24 hours notice.
3.2 Witness Statements.—Each witness who
is to appear before the committee or any
subcommittee shall file with the committee
or subcommittee, at least 24 hours in ad-
vance of the hearing, a written statement of
his or her testimony and as many copies as
the Chairman of the committee or sub-
committee prescribes.
3.3 Minority Witnesses.—In any hearing
conducted by the committee, or any sub-
committee thereof, the minority members of
the committee or subcommittee shall be en-
titled, upon request to the Chairman by the
ranking minority member of the committee
or subcommittee to call witnesses of their
selection during at least 1 day of such hear-
ing pertaining to the matter or matters
heard by the committee or subcommittee.
3.4 Swearing in of Witnesses.—Witnesses in
committee or subcommittee hearings may be
required to give testimony under oath when-
ever the Chairman or ranking minority
member of the committee or subcommittee
deems such to be necessary.
3.5 Limitation.—Each member shall be
limited to 5 minutes in the questioning of
any witness until such time as all members
who so desire have had an opportunity to
question a witness. Questions from members
shall rotate from majority to minority mem-
bers in order of seniority or in order of ar-
rival at the hearing.
RULE 4—NOMINATIONS
4.1 Assignment.—All nominations shall be
considered by the full committee.
4.2 Standards.—In considering a nomina-
tion, the committee shall inquire into the
nominee’s experience, qualifications, suit-
ability, and integrity to serve in the position
to which he or she has been nominated.
4.3 Information.—Each nominee shall sub-
mit in response to questions prepared by the
committee the following information: (1) A
detailed biographical resume which contains
information relating to education, employ-
ment, and achievements; (2) Financial infor-
mation, including a financial statement
which lists assets and liabilities of the nomi-
nee; and (3) Copies of other relevant docu-
ments requested by the committee. Informa-
tion received pursuant to this subsection
shall be available for public inspection ex-
cept as specifically designated confidential
by the committee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.038 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1118 February 7, 2019
4.4 Hearings.—The committee shall con-
duct a public hearing during which the nomi-
nee shall be called to testify under oath on
all matters relating to his or her suitability
for office. No hearing shall be held until at
least 48 hours after the nominee has re-
sponded to a prehearing questionnaire sub-
mitted by the committee.
4.5 Action on Confirmation.—A business
meeting to consider a nomination shall not
occur on the same day that the hearing on
the nominee is held. The Chairman, with the
agreement of the ranking minority member,
may waive this requirement.
RULE 5—QUORUMS
5.1 Testimony.—For the purpose of receiv-
ing evidence, the swearing of witnesses, and
the taking of sworn or unsworn testimony at
any duly scheduled hearing, a quorum of the
committee and the subcommittee thereof
shall consist of one member.
5.2 Business.—A quorum for the trans-
action of committee or subcommittee busi-
ness, other than for reporting a measure or
recommendation to the Senate or the taking
of testimony, shall consist of one-third of
the members of the committee or sub-
committee, including at least one member
from each party.
5.3 Reporting.—A majority of the member-
ship of the committee shall constitute a
quorum for reporting bills, nominations,
matters, or recommendations to the Senate.
No measure or recommendation shall be or-
dered reported from the committee unless a
majority of the committee members are
physically present. The vote of the com-
mittee to report a measure or matter shall
require the concurrence of a majority of
those members who are physically present at
the time the vote is taken.
RULE 6—VOTING
6.1 Rollcalls.—A roll call vote of the mem-
bers shall be taken upon the request of any
member.
6.2 Proxies.—Voting by proxy as authorized
by the Senate rules for specific bills or sub-
jects shall be allowed whenever a quorum of
the committee is actually present.
6.3 Polling.—The committee may poll any
matters of committee business, other than a
vote on reporting to the Senate any meas-
ures, matters or recommendations or a vote
on closing a meeting or hearing to the pub-
lic, provided that every member is polled and
every poll consists of the following two ques-
tions: (1) Do you agree or disagree to poll the
proposal; and (2) Do you favor or oppose the
proposal. If any member requests, any mat-
ter to be polled shall be held for meeting
rather than being polled. The chief clerk of
the committee shall keep a record of all
polls.
RULE 7—SUBCOMMITTEES
7.1 Assignments.—To assure the equitable
assignment of members to subcommittees,
no member of the committee will receive as-
signment to a second subcommittee until, in
order of seniority, all members of the com-
mittee have chosen assignments to one sub-
committee, and no member shall receive as-
signment to a third subcommittee until, in
order of seniority, all members have chosen
assignments to two subcommittees.
7.2 Attendance.—Any member of the com-
mittee may sit with any subcommittee dur-
ing a hearing or meeting but shall not have
the authority to vote on any matter before
the subcommittee unless he or she is a mem-
ber of such subcommittee.
7.3 Ex Officio Members.—The Chairman
and ranking minority member shall serve as
nonvoting ex officio members of the sub-
committees on which they do not serve as
voting members. The Chairman and ranking
minority member may not be counted to-
ward a quorum.
7.4 Scheduling.—No subcommittee may
schedule a meeting or hearing at a time des-
ignated for a hearing or meeting of the full
committee. No more than one subcommittee
business meeting may be held at the same
time.
7.5 Discharge.—Should a subcommittee fail
to report back to the full committee on any
measure within a reasonable time, the Chair-
man may withdraw the measure from such
subcommittee and report that fact to the
full committee for further disposition. The
full committee may at any time, by major-
ity vote of those members present, discharge
a subcommittee from further consideration
of a specific piece of legislation.
7.6 Application of Committee Rules to Sub-
committees.—The proceedings of each sub-
committee shall be governed by the rules of
the full committee, subject to such author-
izations or limitations as the committee
may from time to time prescribe.
RULE 8—INVESTIGATIONS, SUBPOENAS AND
DEPOSITIONS
8.1 Investigations.—Any investigation un-
dertaken by the committee or a sub-
committee in which depositions are taken or
subpoenas issued, must be authorized by a
majority of the members of the committee
voting for approval to conduct such inves-
tigation at a business meeting of the com-
mittee convened in accordance with Rule 1.
8.2 Subpoenas.—The Chairman, with the
approval of the ranking minority member of
the committee, is delegated the authority to
subpoena the attendance of witnesses or the
production of memoranda, documents,
records, or any other materials at a hearing
of the committee or a subcommittee or in
connection with the conduct of an investiga-
tion authorized in accordance with para-
graph 8.1. The Chairman may subpoena at-
tendance or production without the approval
of the ranking minority member when the
Chairman has not received notification from
the ranking minority member of disapproval
of the subpoena within 72 hours, excluding
Saturdays and Sundays, of being notified of
the subpoena. If a subpoena is disapproved by
the ranking minority member as provided in
this paragraph the subpoena may be author-
ized by vote of the members of the com-
mittee. When the committee or Chairman
authorizes subpoenas, subpoenas may be
issued upon the signature of the Chairman or
any other member of the committee des-
ignated by the Chairman.
8.3 Notice for Taking Depositions.—Notices
for the taking of depositions, in an investiga-
tion authorized by the committee, shall be
authorized and be issued by the Chairman or
by a staff officer designated by him. Such no-
tices shall specify a time and place for exam-
ination, and the name of the Senator, staff
officer or officers who will take the deposi-
tion. Unless otherwise specified, the deposi-
tion shall be in private. The committee shall
not initiate procedures leading to criminal
or civil enforcement proceedings for a wit-
ness’ failure to appear unless the deposition
notice was accompanied by a committee sub-
poena.
8.4 Procedure for Taking Depositions.—
Witnesses shall be examined upon oath ad-
ministered by an individual authorized by
local law to administer oaths. The Chairman
will rule, by telephone or otherwise, on any
objection by a witness. The transcript of a
deposition shall be filed with the committee
clerk.
RULE 9—AMENDING THE RULES
These rules shall become effective upon
publication in the Congressional Record.
These rules may be modified, amended, or re-
pealed by the committee, provided that all
members are present or provide proxies or if
a notice in writing of the proposed changes
has been given to each member at least 48
hours prior to the meeting at which action
thereon is to be taken. The changes shall be-
come effective immediately upon publication
of the changed rule or rules in the Congres-
sional Record, or immediately upon approval
of the changes if so resolved by the com-
mittee as long as any witnesses who may be
affected by the change in rules are provided
with them.
f
SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
AGING RULES OF PROCEDURE
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Special
Committee on Aging, having adopted
rules governing its procedures for the
116th Congress, have a copy of their
rules printed in the RECORD. Pursuant
to XXVI, paragraph 2, of the Standing
Rules of the Senate.
Thank you for your consideration of
this request.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING
COMMITTEE RULES 116TH CONGRESS
JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY
A.
There is established a Special Committee
on Aging (hereafter in this section referred
to as the ‘‘special committee’’) which shall
consist of nineteen Members. The Members
and chairman of the special committee shall
be appointed in the same manner and at the
same time as the Members and chairman of
a standing committee of the Senate. After
the date on which the majority and minority
Members of the special committee are ini-
tially appointed on or affect the effective
date of title I of the Committee System Re-
organization Amendments of 1977, each time
a vacancy occurs in the Membership of the
special committee, the number of Members
of the special committee shall be reduced by
one until the number of Members of the spe-
cial committee consists of nine Senators.
For the purposes of paragraph 1 of rule
XXV; paragraphs 1, 7(a)(1)–(2), 9, and 10(a) of
rule XXVI; and paragraphs 1(a)–(d), and 2(a)
and (d) of rule XXVII of the Standing Rules
of the Senate; and the purposes of section
202(I) and (j) of the Legislative Reorganiza-
tion Act of 1946, the special committee shall
be treated as a standing committee of the
Senate.
B.
It shall be the duty of the special com-
mittee to conduct a continuing study of any
and all matters pertaining to problems and
opportunities of older people, including, but
not limited to, problems and opportunities of
maintaining health, of assuring adequate in-
come, of finding employment, of engaging in
productive and rewarding activity, of secur-
ing proper housing, and when necessary, of
obtaining care or assistance. No proposed
legislation shall be referred to such com-
mittee, and such committee shall not have
power to report by bill, or otherwise have
legislative jurisdiction.
The special committee shall, from time to
time (but not less than once year), report to
the Senate the results of the study con-
ducted pursuant to paragraph (1), together
with such recommendation as it considers
appropriate.
C.
For the purposes of this section, the spe-
cial committee is authorized, in its discre-
tion, (A) to make investigations into any
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.009 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1119
February 7, 2019
matter within its jurisdiction, (B) to make
expenditures from the contingent fund of the
Senate, (C) to employ personnel, (D) to hold
hearings, (E) to sit and act at any time or
place during the sessions, recesses, and ad-
journed periods of the Senate, (F) to require,
by subpoena or otherwise, the attendance of
witnesses and the production of correspond-
ence books, papers, and documents, (G) to
take depositions and other testimony, (H) to
procure the serve of individual consultants
or organizations thereof (as authorized by
section 202(I) of the Legislative Reorganiza-
tion Act of 1946, as amended) and (I) with the
prior consent of the Government department
or agency concerned and the Committee on
Rules and Administration, to use on a reim-
bursable basis the services of personnel of
any such department or agency.
The chairman of the special committee or
any Member thereof may administer oaths
to witnesses.
Subpoenas authorized by the special com-
mittee may be issued over the signature of
the chairman, or any Member of the special
committee designated by the chairman, and
may be served by any person designated by
the chairman or the Member signing the sub-
poena.
D.
All records and papers of the temporary
Special Committee on Aging established by
Senate Resolution 33, Eighty-seventh Con-
gress, are transferred to the special com-
mittee.
RULES OF PROCEDURE
I. Convening of Meetings
Meetings. The Committee shall meet to
conduct Committee business at the call of
the Chairman. The Members of the Com-
mittee may call additional meetings as pro-
vided in Senate Rule XXVI (3).
Notice and Agenda:
(a) Written or Electronic Notice. The
Chairman shall give the Members written or
electronic notice of any Committee meeting,
accompanied by an agenda enumerating the
items of business to be considered, at least 5
days in advance of such meeting.
(b) Shortened Notice. A meeting may be
called on not less than 24 hours notice if the
Chairman, with the concurrence of the
Ranking Minority Member, determines that
there is good cause to begin the meeting on
shortened notice. An agenda will be fur-
nished prior to such a meeting.
Presiding Officer. The Chairman shall pre-
side when present. If the Chairman is not
present at any meeting, the Ranking Major-
ity Member present shall preside.
II. Convening of Hearings
Notice. The Committee shall make public
announcement of the date, place and subject
matter of any hearing at least one week be-
fore its commencement. A hearing may be
called on not less than 24 hours notice if the
Chairman, with the concurrence of the
Ranking Minority Member, determines that
there is good cause to begin the hearing on
shortened notice.
Presiding Officer. The Chairman shall pre-
side over the conduct of a hearing when
present, or, whether present or not, may del-
egate authority to preside to any Member of
the Committee.
Witnesses. Witnesses called before the
Committee shall be given, absent extraor-
dinary circumstances, at least 48 hours no-
tice, and all witnesses called shall be fur-
nished with a copy of these rules upon re-
quest.
Oath. All witnesses who testify to matters
of fact shall be sworn unless the Committee
waives the oath. The Chairman, or any Mem-
ber, may request and administer the oath.
Testimony. At least 48 hours in advance of
a hearing, each witness who is to appear be-
fore the Committee shall submit his or her
testimony by way of electronic mail, in a
format determined by the Committee and
sent to an electronic mail address specified
by the Committee, unless the Chairman and
Ranking Minority Member determine that
there is good cause for a witness’s failure to
do so. A witness shall be allowed no more
than five minutes to orally summarize his or
her prepared statement. Officials of the fed-
eral government shall file 40 copies of such
statement with the clerk of the Committee
48 hours in advance of their appearance, un-
less the Chairman and the Ranking Minority
Member determine there is good cause for
noncompliance.
Counsel. A witness’s counsel shall be per-
mitted to be present during his testimony at
any public or closed hearing or depositions
or staff interview to advise such witness of
his or her rights, provided, however, that in
the case of any witness who is an officer or
employee of the government, or of a corpora-
tion or association, the Chairman may rule
that representation by counsel from the gov-
ernment, corporation, or association creates
a conflict of interest, and that the witness
shall be represented by personal counsel not
from the government, corporation, or asso-
ciation.
Transcript. An accurate electronic or sten-
ographic record shall be kept of the testi-
mony of all witnesses in closed sessions and
public hearings. Any witness shall be af-
forded, upon request, the right to review
that portion of such record, and for this pur-
pose, a copy of a witness’s testimony in pub-
lic or closed session shall be provided to the
witness. Upon inspecting his or her tran-
script, within a time limit set by the com-
mittee clerk, a witness may request changes
in testimony to correct errors of tran-
scription, grammatical errors, and obvious
errors of fact. The Chairman or a staff officer
designated by him shall rule on such request.
Impugned Persons. Any person who be-
lieves that evidence presented, or comment
made by a Member or staff, at a public hear-
ing or at a closed hearing concerning which
there have been public reports, tends to im-
pugn his or her character or adversely affect
his or her reputation may:
(a) file a sworn statement of facts relevant
to the evidence or comment, which shall be
placed in the hearing record; and
(b) request the opportunity to appear per-
sonally before the Committee to testify in
his or her own behalf.
Minority Witnesses. Whenever any hearing
is conducted by the Committee, the Ranking
Member shall be entitled to call at least one
witness to testify or produce documents with
respect to the measure or matter under con-
sideration at the hearing. Such request must
be made before the completion of the hearing
or, if subpoenas are required to call the mi-
nority witnesses, no later than three days
before the hearing.
Conduct of Witnesses, Counsel and Mem-
bers of the Audience. If, during public or ex-
ecutive sessions, a witness, his or her coun-
sel, or any spectator conducts him or herself
in such a manner as to prevent, impede, dis-
rupt, obstruct, or interfere with the orderly
administration of such hearing the Chairman
or presiding Member of the Committee
present during such hearing may request the
Sergeant at Arms of the Senate, his rep-
resentative or any law enforcement official
to eject said person from the hearing room.
III. Closed Sessions and Confidential Materials
Procedure. All meetings and hearings shall
be open to the public unless closed. To close
a meeting or hearing or portion thereof, a
motion shall be made and seconded to go
into closed discussion of whether the meet-
ing or hearing will concern Committee inves-
tigations or matters enumerated in Senate
Rule XXVI(5)(b). Immediately after such dis-
cussion, the meeting or hearing or portion
thereof may be closed by a vote in open ses-
sion of a majority of the Members of the
Committee present.
Witness Request. Any witness called for a
hearing may submit a written or an elec-
tronic request to the Chairman no later than
twenty-four hours in advance for his or her
examination to be in closed or open session.
The Chairman shall inform the Committee of
any such request.
Confidential Matter. No record made of a
closed session, or material declared confiden-
tial by a majority of the Committee, or re-
port of the proceedings of a closed session,
shall be made public, in whole or in part or
by way of summary, unless specifically au-
thorized by the Chairman and Ranking Mi-
nority Member.
IV. Broadcasting
Control. Any meeting or hearing open to
the public may be covered by television,
radio, or still photography. Such coverage
must be conducted in an orderly and unob-
trusive manner, and the Chairman may for
good cause terminate such coverage in whole
or in part, or take such other action to con-
trol it as the circumstances may warrant.
Request. A witness may request of the
Chairman, on grounds of distraction, harass-
ment, personal safety, or physical discom-
fort, that during his or her testimony cam-
eras, media microphones, and lights shall
not be directed at him or her.
V. Quorums and Voting
Reporting. A majority shall constitute a
quorum for reporting a resolution, rec-
ommendation or report to the Senate.
Committee Business. A third shall con-
stitute a quorum for the conduct of Com-
mittee business, other than a final vote on
reporting, providing a minority Member is
present.
Hearings. One Member shall constitute a
quorum for the receipt of evidence, the
swearing of witnesses, and the taking of tes-
timony at hearings.
Polling:
(a) Subjects. The Committee may poll (1)
internal Committee matters including those
concerning the Committee’s staff, records,
and budget; (2) Committee rules changes and
(3) other Committee business which has been
designated for polling at a meeting.
(b) Procedure. The Chairman shall cir-
culate polling sheets to each Member speci-
fying the matter being polled and the time
limit for completion of the poll. If any Mem-
ber so requests in advance of the meeting,
the matter shall be held for meeting rather
than being polled. The clerk shall keep a
record of polls. If the Chairman determines
that the polled matter is one of the areas
enumerated in Rule III(1), the record of the
poll shall be confidential. Any Member may
request a Committee meeting following a
poll for a vote on the polled decision.
VI. Investigations
Authorization for Investigations. All inves-
tigations shall be conducted on a bipartisan
basis by Committee staff. Investigations
may be initiated by the Committee staff
upon the approval of the Chairman and the
Ranking Minority Member. Staff shall keep
the Committee fully informed of the
progress of continuing investigations, except
where the Chairman and the Ranking Minor-
ity Member agree that there exists tem-
porary cause for more limited knowledge.
Subpoenas. The Chairman and Ranking Mi-
nority Member, acting together, shall au-
thorize a subpoena. Subpoenas for the at-
tendance of witnesses or the production of
memoranda, documents, records, or any
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00089 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.010 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1120 February 7, 2019
other materials shall be issued by the Chair-
man, or by any other Member of the Com-
mittee designated by him. Prior to the
issuance of each subpoena, the Ranking Mi-
nority Member, and any other Member so re-
questing, shall be notified regarding the
identity of the person to whom the subpoena
will be issued and the nature of the informa-
tion sought, and its relationship to the in-
vestigation.
Investigative Reports. All reports con-
taining findings or recommendations stem-
ming from Committee investigations shall
be printed only with the approval of a major-
ity of the Members of the Committee.
VII. Depositions and Commissions
Notice. Notices for the taking of deposi-
tions in an investigation authorized by the
Committee shall be authorized and issued by
the Chairman or by a staff officer designated
by him. Such notices shall specify a time and
place for examination, and the name of the
staff officer or officers who will take the dep-
osition. Unless otherwise specified, the depo-
sition shall be in private. The Committee
shall not initiate procedures leading to
criminal or civil enforcement proceedings for
a witness’s failure to appear unless the depo-
sition notice was accompanied by a Com-
mittee subpoena.
Counsel. Witnesses may be accompanied at
a deposition by counsel to advise them of
their rights, subject to the provisions of Rule
II(6).
Procedure. Witnesses shall be examined
upon oath administered by an individual au-
thorized by local law to administer oaths.
Questions shall be propounded orally by
Committee staff. Objections by the witnesses
as to the form of questions shall be noted by
the record. If a witness objects to a question
and refuses to testify on the basis of rel-
evance or privilege, the Committee staff may
proceed with the deposition, or may at that
time or at a subsequent time, seek a ruling
by telephone or otherwise on the objection
from a Member of the Committee. If the
Member overrules the objection, he or she
may refer the matter to the Committee or
the Member may order and direct the wit-
ness to answer the question, but the Com-
mittee shall not initiate the procedures lead-
ing to civil or criminal enforcement unless
the witness refuses to testify after he or she
has been ordered and directed to answer by a
Member of the Committee.
Filing. The Committee staff shall see that
the testimony is transcribed or electroni-
cally recorded.
Commissions. The Committee may author-
ize the staff, by issuance of commissions, to
fill in prepared subpoenas, conduct field
hearings, inspect locations, facilities, or sys-
tems of records, or otherwise act on behalf of
the Committee. Commissions shall be ac-
companied by instructions from the Com-
mittee regulating their use.
VIII. Subcommittees
Establishment. The Committee will oper-
ate as a Committee of the Whole, reserving
to itself the right to establish temporary
subcommittees at any time by majority
vote. The Chairman of the full Committee
and the Ranking Minority Member shall be
ex officio Members of all subcommittees.
Jurisdiction. Within its jurisdiction as de-
scribed in the Standing Rules of the Senate,
each subcommittee is authorized to conduct
investigations, including use of subpoenas,
depositions, and commissions.
Rules. A subcommittee shall be governed
by the Committee rules, except that its
quorum for all business shall be one-third of
the subcommittee Membership, and for hear-
ings shall be one Member.
IX. Reports
Committee reports incorporating Com-
mittee findings and recommendations shall
be printed only with the prior approval of a
majority of the Committee, after an ade-
quate period for review and comment. The
printing, as Committee documents, of mate-
rials prepared by staff for informational pur-
poses, or the printing of materials not origi-
nating with the Committee or staff, shall re-
quire prior consultation with the minority
staff; these publications shall have the fol-
lowing language printed on the cover of the
document: ‘‘Note: This document has been
printed for informational purposes. It does
not represent either findings or rec-
ommendations formally adopted by the Com-
mittee.’’
X. Amendment of Rules
The rules of the Committee may be amend-
ed or revised at any time, provided that not
less than a majority of the Committee
present so determine at a Committee meet-
ing preceded by at least 3 days notice of the
amendments or revisions proposed or via
polling, subject to Rule V (4).
f
SENATE COMMITTEE ON THE
JUDICIARY RULES OF PROCEDURE
Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, the
Committee on the Judiciary has adopt-
ed rules governing its procedures for
the 116th Congress. Pursuant to rule
XXVI, paragraph 2, of the Standing
Rules of the Senate, on behalf of my-
self and Ranking Member FEINSTEIN, I
ask unanimous consent that a copy of
the committee rules be printed in the
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
RULES OF PROCEDURE UNITED STATES SENATE
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
I. MEETING OF THE COMMITTEE
1. Meetings of the Committee may be
called by the Chairman as he may deem nec-
essary on at least three calendar days’ notice
of the date, time, place and subject matter of
the meeting, or in the alternative with the
consent of the Ranking Minority Member, or
pursuant to the provision of the Standing
Rules of the Senate, as amended.
2. Unless a different date and time are set
by the Chairman pursuant to (1) of this sec-
tion, Committee meetings shall be held be-
ginning at 10:00 a.m. on Thursdays the Sen-
ate is in session, which shall be the regular
meeting day for the transaction of business.
3. At the request of any member, or by ac-
tion of the Chairman, a bill, matter, or nom-
ination on the agenda of the Committee may
be held over until the next meeting of the
Committee or for one week, whichever oc-
curs later.
II. HEARINGS OF THE COMMITTEE
1. The Committee shall provide a public
announcement of the date, time, place and
subject matter of any hearing to be con-
ducted by the Committee or any Sub-
committee at least seven calendar days prior
to the commencement of that hearing, un-
less the Chairman with the consent of the
Ranking Minority Member determines that
good cause exists to begin such hearing at an
earlier date. Witnesses shall provide a writ-
ten statement of their testimony and cur-
riculum vitae to the Committee at least 24
hours preceding the hearings in as many cop-
ies as the Chairman of the Committee or
Subcommittee prescribes.
2. In the event 14 calendar days’ notice of
a hearing has been made, witnesses appear-
ing before the Committee, including any wit-
ness representing a Government agency,
must file with the Committee at least 48
hours preceding appearance written state-
ments of their testimony and curriculum
vitae in as many copies as the Chairman of
the Committee or Subcommittee prescribes.
3. In the event a witness fails timely to file
the written statement in accordance with
this rule, the Chairman may permit the wit-
ness to testify, or deny the witness the privi-
lege of testifying before the Committee, or
permit the witness to testify in response to
questions from Senators without the benefit
of giving an opening statement.
III. QUORUMS
1. Seven Members of the Committee, actu-
ally present, shall constitute a quorum for
the purpose of discussing business. Nine
Members of the Committee, including at
least two Members of the minority, shall
constitute a quorum for the purpose of
transacting business. No bill, matter, or
nomination shall be ordered reported from
the Committee, however, unless a majority
of the Committee is actually present at the
time such action is taken and a majority of
those present support the action taken.
2. For the purpose of taking down sworn
testimony, a quorum of the Committee and
each Subcommittee thereof, now or here-
after appointed, shall consist of one Senator.
IV. BRINGING A MATTER TO A VOTE
The Chairman shall entertain a non-debat-
able motion to bring a matter before the
Committee to a vote. If there is objection to
bring the matter to a vote without further
debate, a roll call vote of the Committee
shall be taken, and debate shall be termi-
nated if the motion to bring the matter to a
vote without further debate passes with
twelve votes in the affirmative, one of which
must be cast by the minority.
V. AMENDMENTS
1. Provided at least seven calendars days’
notice of the agenda is given, and the text of
the proposed bill or resolution has been made
available at least seven calendar days in ad-
vance, it shall not be in order for the Com-
mittee to consider any amendment in the
first degree proposed to any measure under
consideration by the Committee unless such
amendment has been delivered to the office
of the Committee and circulated via e-mail
to each of the offices by at least 5:00 p.m. the
day prior to the scheduled start of the meet-
ing.
2. It shall be in order, without prior notice,
for a Member to offer a motion to strike a
single section of any bill, resolution, or
amendment under consideration.
3. The time limit imposed on the filing of
amendments shall apply to no more than
three bills identified by the Chairman and
included on the Committee’s legislative
agenda.
4. This section of the rule may be waived
by agreement of the Chairman and the Rank-
ing Minority Member.
VI. PROXY VOTING
When a recorded vote is taken in the Com-
mittee on any bill, resolution, amendment,
or any other question, a quorum being
present, Members who are unable to attend
the meeting may submit votes by proxy, in
writing or by telephone, or through personal
instructions. A proxy must be specific with
respect to the matters it addresses.
VII. SUBCOMMITTEES
1. Any Member of the Committee may sit
with any Subcommittee during its hearings
or any other meeting, but shall not have the
authority to vote on any matter before the
Subcommittee unless a Member of such Sub-
committee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00090 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.011 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1121
February 7, 2019
2. Subcommittees shall be considered de
novo whenever there is a change in the Sub-
committee chairmanship and seniority on
the particular Subcommittee shall not nec-
essarily apply.
3. Except for matters retained at the full
Committee, matters shall be referred to the
appropriate Subcommittee or Subcommit-
tees by the Chairman, except as agreed by a
majority vote of the Committee or by the
agreement of the Chairman and the Ranking
Minority Member.
4. Provided all members of the Sub-
committee consent, a bill or other matter
may be polled out of the Subcommittee. In
order to be polled out of a Subcommittee, a
majority of the members of the Sub-
committee who vote must vote in favor of re-
porting the bill or matter to the Committee.
VIII. ATTENDANCE RULES
1. Official attendance at all Committee
business meetings of the Committee shall be
kept by the Committee Clerk. Official at-
tendance at all Subcommittee business
meetings shall be kept by the Subcommittee
Clerk.
2. Official attendance at all hearings shall
be kept, provided that Senators are notified
by the Committee Chairman and Ranking
Minority Member, in the case of Committee
hearings, and by the Subcommittee Chair-
man and Ranking Minority Member, in the
case of Subcommittee Hearings, 48 hours in
advance of the hearing that attendance will
be taken; otherwise, no attendance will be
taken. Attendance at all hearings is encour-
aged.
IX. SUBPEONAS
The Chairman of the Committee, with the
agreement of the Ranking Member or by a
vote of the Committee, may subpoena the at-
tendance of a witness at a Committee or
Subcommittee hearing or Committee deposi-
tion, or the production of memoranda, docu-
ments, records, or any other materials. Any
such subpoena shall be issued upon the sig-
nature of the Chairman or any other Member
of the Committee designated by the Chair-
man.
X. DEPOSITIONS
1. Any subpoena issued for a deposition
that is to be conducted by staff shall be ac-
companied by a notice of deposition identi-
fying the Majority staff officers designated
by the Chairman and the Minority staff offi-
cers designated by the Ranking Member to
take the deposition, and the Majority and
Minority shall be afforded the opportunity to
participate on equal terms.
2. Unless waived by agreement of the Chair
and Ranking Member, any deposition shall
have at least one Member present for the du-
ration of the deposition. All Members shall
be notified of the date, time, and location of
any deposition.
3. Any Member of the Committee may at-
tend and participate in the taking of any
deposition.
4. A witness at a deposition shall be exam-
ined upon oath administered by an indi-
vidual authorized by law to administer
oaths, or administered by any Member of the
Committee if one is present.
5. Unless otherwise specified, the deposi-
tion shall be in private.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE ON VET-
ERANS’ AFFAIRS RULES OF PRO-
CEDURE
Mr. ISAKSON. Mr. President, the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs has
adopted rules governing its procedures
for the 116th Congress. Pursuant to
rule XXVI, paragraph 2, of the Stand-
ing Rules of the Senate, on behalf of
myself and Senator TESTER, I ask
unanimous consent that a copy of the
Committee rules be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS RULES OF
PROCEDURE
116TH CONGRESS
I. MEETINGS
(A) Unless otherwise ordered, the Com-
mittee shall meet on the first Wednesday of
each month. The Chairman may, upon proper
notice, call such additional meetings as
deemed necessary.
(B) Except as provided in subparagraphs (b)
and (d) of paragraph 5 of rule XXVI of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, meetings of
the Committee shall be open to the public.
The Committee shall prepare and keep a
complete transcript or electronic recording
adequate to fully record the proceedings of
each meeting whether or not such meeting
or any part thereof is closed to the public.
(C) The Chairman of the Committee, or the
Ranking Majority Member present in the ab-
sence of the Chairman, or such other Mem-
ber as the Chairman may designate, shall
preside over all meetings.
(D) Except as provided in rule XXVI of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, no meeting of
the Committee shall be scheduled except by
majority vote of the Committee or by au-
thorization of the Chairman of the Com-
mittee.
(E) The Committee shall notify the office
designated by the Committee on Rules and
Administration of the time, place, and pur-
pose of each meeting. In the event such
meeting is canceled, the Committee shall
immediately notify such designated office.
(F) Written or electronic notice of a Com-
mittee meeting, accompanied by an agenda
enumerating the items of business to be con-
sidered, shall be sent to all Committee Mem-
bers at least 72 hours (not counting Satur-
days, Sundays, and federal holidays) in ad-
vance of each meeting. In the event that the
giving of such 72-hour notice is prevented by
unforeseen requirements or Committee busi-
ness, the Committee staff shall communicate
notice by the quickest appropriate means to
Members or appropriate staff assistants of
Members and an agenda shall be furnished
prior to the meeting.
(G) Subject to the second sentence of this
paragraph, it shall not be in order for the
Committee to consider any amendment in
the first degree proposed to any measure
under consideration by the Committee un-
less a written or electronic copy of such
amendment has been delivered to each Mem-
ber of the Committee at least 24 hours (not
counting Saturdays, Sundays, and federal
holidays) before the meeting at which the
amendment is to be proposed. This para-
graph may be waived by a majority vote of
the Members and shall apply only when 72-
hour written notice has been provided in ac-
cordance with paragraph (F).
II. QUORUMS
(A) Subject to the provisions of paragraph
(B), nine Members of the Committee shall
constitute a quorum for the reporting or ap-
proving of any measure or matter or rec-
ommendation. Five Members of the Com-
mittee shall constitute a quorum for pur-
poses of transacting any other business.
(B) In order to transact any business at a
Committee meeting, at least one Member of
the minority shall be present. If, at any
meeting, business cannot be transacted be-
cause of the absence of such a Member, the
matter shall lay over for a calendar day. If
the presence of a minority Member is not
then obtained, business may be transacted
by the appropriate quorum.
(C) One Member shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of receiving testimony.
III. VOTING
(A) Votes may be cast by proxy. A proxy
shall be written and may be conditioned by
personal instructions. A proxy shall be valid
only for the day given.
(B) There shall be a complete record kept
of all Committee actions. Such record shall
contain the vote cast by each Member of the
Committee on any question on which a roll
call vote is requested.
IV. HEARINGS AND HEARING PROCEDURES
(A) Except as specifically otherwise pro-
vided, the rules governing meetings shall
govern hearings.
(B) At least one week in advance of the
date of any hearing, the Committee shall un-
dertake, consistent with the provisions of
paragraph 4 of rule XXVI of the Standing
Rules of the Senate, to make public an-
nouncements of the date, place, time, and
subject matter of such hearing.
(C) (1) Each witness who is scheduled to
testify at a hearing of the Committee shall
submit 40 copies of such witness’ testimony
to the Committee not later than 48 hours
(not counting Saturdays, Sundays, and fed-
eral holidays) before the witness’ scheduled
appearance at the hearing.
(2) Any witness who fails to meet the dead-
line specified in paragraph (1) shall not be
permitted to present testimony but may be
seated to take questions from Committee
members, unless the Chairman and Ranking
Minority Member determine there is good
cause for the witness’ failure to meet the
deadline or it is in the Committee’s interest
to permit such witness to testify.
(D) The presiding Member at any hearing
is authorized to limit the time allotted to
each witness appearing before the Com-
mittee.
(E) The Chairman, with the concurrence of
the Ranking Minority Member of the Com-
mittee, is authorized to subpoena the attend-
ance of witnesses and the production of
memoranda, documents, records, and any
other materials. If the Chairman or a Com-
mittee staff member designated by the
Chairman has not received from the Ranking
Minority Member or a Committee staff mem-
ber designated by the Ranking Minority
Member notice of the Ranking Minority
Member’s non-concurrence in the subpoena
within 48 hours (not counting Saturdays,
Sundays, and federal holidays) of being noti-
fied of the Chairman’s intention to subpoena
attendance or production, the Chairman is
authorized following the end of the 48-hour
period involved to subpoena the same with-
out the Ranking Minority Member’s concur-
rence. Regardless of whether a subpoena has
been concurred in by the Ranking Minority
Member, such subpoena may be authorized
by vote of the Members of the Committee.
When the Committee or Chairman authorizes
a subpoena, the subpoena may be issued upon
the signature of the Chairman or of any
other Member of the Committee designated
by the Chairman.
(F) Except as specified in Committee Rule
VII (requiring oaths, under certain cir-
cumstances, at hearings to confirm Presi-
dential nominations), witnesses at hearings
will be required to give testimony under
oath whenever the presiding Member deems
such to be advisable.
V. MEDIA COVERAGE
Any Committee meeting or hearing which
is open to the public may be covered by tele-
vision, radio, and print media. Photog-
raphers, reporters, and crew members using
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00091 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.021 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1122 February 7, 2019
mechanical recording, filming, or broad-
casting devices shall position and use their
equipment so as not to interfere with the
seating, vision, or hearing of the Committee
Members or staff or with the orderly conduct
of the meeting or hearing. The presiding
Member of the meeting or hearing may for
good cause terminate, in whole or in part,
the use of such mechanical devices or take
such other action as the circumstances and
the orderly conduct of the meeting or hear-
ing may warrant.
VI. GENERAL
All applicable requirements of the Stand-
ing Rules of the Senate shall govern the
Committee.
VII. PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATIONS
(A) Each Presidential nominee whose nom-
ination is subject to Senate confirmation
and referred to this Committee shall submit
a statement of his or her background and fi-
nancial interests, including the financial in-
terests of his or her spouse and of children
living in the nominee’s household, on a form
approved by the Committee, which shall be
sworn to as to its completeness and accu-
racy. The Committee form shall be in two
parts:
1) Information concerning employment,
education, and background of the nominee,
which generally relates to the position to
which the individual is nominated and which
is to be made public; and
2) Information concerning the financial
and other background of the nominee, to be
made public when the Committee determines
that such information bears directly on the
nominee’s qualifications to hold the position
to which the individual is nominated.
(B) At any hearing to confirm a Presi-
dential nomination, the testimony of the
nominee and, at the request of any Member,
any other witness shall be under oath.
(C) Committee action on a nomination, in-
cluding hearings or a meeting to consider a
motion to recommend confirmation, shall
not occur until at least five days (not count-
ing Saturdays, Sundays, and federal holi-
days) after the nominee submits with respect
to the currently pending nomination the
form required by this rule unless the Chair-
man, with the concurrence of the Ranking
Minority Member, waives this waiting pe-
riod.
VIII. NAMING OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS
AFFAIRS FACILITIES
It is the policy of the Committee that a
Department of Veterans Affairs facility may
be named only after a deceased individual
and only under the following circumstances:
(A) Such individual was:
(1) A veteran who (i) was instrumental in
the construction or the operation of the fa-
cility to be named, or
(ii) was a recipient of the Medal of Honor
or, as determined by the Chairman and
Ranking Minority Member, otherwise per-
formed military service of an extraordinarily
distinguished character;
(2) A Member of the United States House of
Representatives or Senate who had a direct
association with such facility;
(3) An Administrator of Veterans Affairs, a
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, a Secretary of
Defense or of a service branch, or a military
or other Federal civilian official of com-
parable or higher rank; or
(4) An individual who, as determined by
the Chairman and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber, performed outstanding service for vet-
erans.
(B) Each Member of the Congressional del-
egation representing the State in which the
designated facility is located must indicate
in writing such Member’s support of the pro-
posal to name such facility after such indi-
vidual. It is the policy of the Committee that
sponsoring or cosponsoring legislation to
name such facility after such individual will
not alone satisfy this requirement.
(C) The pertinent State department or
chapter of each Congressionally chartered
veterans’ organization having a national
membership of at least 500,000 must indicate
in writing its support of such proposal.
IX. AMENDMENTS TO THE RULES
The rules of the Committee may be
changed, modified, amended, or suspended at
any time provided, however, that no less
than a majority of the entire membership so
determine at a regular meeting with due no-
tice or at a meeting specifically called for
that purpose. The rules governing quorums
for reporting legislative matters shall gov-
ern rules changes, modification, amend-
ments, or suspension.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN
RELATIONS RULES OF PROCEDURE
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations has adopt-
ed rules governing its procedures for
the 116th Congress. Pursuant to rule
XXVI, paragraph 2, of the Standing
Rules of the Senate, on behalf of my-
self and Senator MENENDEZ, I ask
unanimous consent that a copy of the
committee rules be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD as follows:
RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN
RELATIONS
(ADOPTED FEBRUARY 7, 2019)
RULE 1—JURISDICTION
(a) Substantive.—In accordance with Sen-
ate Rule XXV.1(j)(1), the jurisdiction of the
committee shall extend to all proposed legis-
lation, messages, petitions, memorials, and
other matters relating to the following sub-
jects:
1. Acquisition of land and buildings for
embassies and legations in foreign countries.
2. Boundaries of the United States.
3. Diplomatic service.
4. Foreign economic, military, technical,
and humanitarian assistance.
5. Foreign loans.
6. International activities of the Amer-
ican National Red Cross and the Inter-
national Committee of the Red Cross.
7. International aspects of nuclear en-
ergy, including nuclear transfer policy.
8. International conferences and con-
gresses.
9. International law as it relates to for-
eign policy.
10. International Monetary Fund and other
international organizations established pri-
marily for international monetary purposes
(except that, at the request of the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs, any proposed legislation relating to
such subjects reported by the Committee on
Foreign Relations shall be referred to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs).
11. Intervention abroad and declarations of
war.
12. Measures to foster commercial inter-
course with foreign nations and to safeguard
American business interests abroad.
13. National security and international as-
pects of trusteeships of the United States.
14. Ocean and international environmental
and scientific affairs as they relate to for-
eign policy.
15. Protection of United States citizens
abroad and expatriation.
16. Relations of the United States with for-
eign nations generally.
17. Treaties and executive agreements, ex-
cept reciprocal trade agreements.
18. United Nations and its affiliated orga-
nizations.
19. World Bank group, the regional devel-
opment banks, and other international orga-
nizations established primarily for develop-
ment assistance purposes.
The committee is also mandated by Senate
Rule XXV.1(j)(2) to study and review, on a
comprehensive basis, matters relating to the
national security policy, foreign policy, and
international economic policy as it relates
to foreign policy of the United States, and
matters relating to food, hunger, and nutri-
tion in foreign countries, and report thereon
from time to time.
(b) Oversight.—The committee also has a
responsibility under Senate Rule
XXVI.8(a)(2), which provides that ‘‘. . . .
each standing committee . . . shall review
and study, on a continuing basis, the appli-
cation, administration, and execution of
those laws or parts of laws, the subject mat-
ter of which is within the jurisdiction of the
committee.’’
(c) ‘‘Advice and Consent’’ Clauses.—The
committee has a special responsibility to as-
sist the Senate in its constitutional function
of providing ‘‘advice and consent’’ to all
treaties entered into by the United States
and all nominations to the principal execu-
tive branch positions in the field of foreign
policy and diplomacy.
RULE 2—SUBCOMMITTEES
(a) Creation.—Unless otherwise authorized
by law or Senate resolution, subcommittees
shall be created by majority vote of the com-
mittee and shall deal with such legislation
and oversight of programs and policies as the
committee directs. Legislative measures or
other matters may be referred to a sub-
committee for consideration in the discre-
tion of the chairman or by vote of a majority
of the committee. If the principal subject
matter of a measure or matter to be referred
falls within the jurisdiction of more than one
subcommittee, the chairman or the com-
mittee may refer the matter to two or more
subcommittees for joint consideration.
(b) Assignments.—Assignments of members
to subcommittees shall be made in an equi-
table fashion. No member of the committee
may receive assignment to a second sub-
committee until, in order of seniority, all
members of the committee have chosen as-
signments to one subcommittee, and no
member shall receive assignments to a third
subcommittee until, in order of seniority, all
members have chosen assignments to two
subcommittees.
No member of the committee may serve on
more than four subcommittees at any one
time.
The chairman and ranking member of the
committee shall be ex officio members, with-
out vote, of each subcommittee.
(c) Hearings.—Except when funds have been
specifically made available by the Senate for
a subcommittee purpose, no subcommittee of
the Committee on Foreign Relations shall
hold hearings involving expenses without
prior approval of the chairman of the full
committee or by decision of the full com-
mittee. Hearings of subcommittees shall be
scheduled after consultation with the chair-
man of the committee with a view toward
avoiding conflicts with hearings of other
subcommittees insofar as possible. Hearings
of subcommittees shall not be scheduled to
conflict with meetings or hearings of the full
committee.
The proceedings of each subcommittee
shall be governed by the rules of the full
committee, subject to such authorizations or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00092 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.014 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1123
February 7, 2019
limitations as the committee may from time
to time prescribe.
RULE 3—MEETINGS AND HEARINGS
(a) Regular Meeting Day.—The regular
meeting day of the Committee on Foreign
Relations for the transaction of committee
business shall be on Wednesday of each week,
unless otherwise directed by the chairman.
(b) Additional Meetings and Hearings.—Ad-
ditional meetings and hearings of the com-
mittee may be called by the chairman as he
may deem necessary. If at least three mem-
bers of the committee desire that a special
meeting of the committee be called by the
chairman, those members may file in the of-
fices of the committee their written request
to the chairman for that special meeting.
Immediately upon filing of the request, the
chief clerk of the committee shall notify the
chairman of the filing of the request. If,
within three calendar days after the filing of
the request, the chairman does not call the
requested special meeting, to be held within
seven calendar days after the filing of the re-
quest, a majority of the members of the com-
mittee may file in the offices of the com-
mittee their written notice that a special
meeting of the committee will be held, speci-
fying the date and hour of that special meet-
ing. The committee shall meet on that date
and hour. Immediately upon the filing of the
notice, the clerk shall notify all members of
the committee that such special meeting
will be held and inform them of its date and
hour.
(c) Hearings, Selection of Witnesses.—To en-
sure that the issue which is the subject of
the hearing is presented as fully and fairly as
possible, whenever a hearing is conducted by
the committee or a subcommittee upon any
measure or matter, the ranking member of
the committee or subcommittee may select
and call an equal number of non-govern-
mental witnesses to testify at that hearing.
(d) Public Announcement.—The committee,
or any subcommittee thereof, shall make
public announcement of the date, place,
time, and subject matter of any meeting or
hearing to be conducted on any measure or
matter at least seven calendar days in ad-
vance of such meetings or hearings, unless
the chairman of the committee, or sub-
committee, in consultation with the ranking
member, determines that there is good cause
to begin such meeting or hearing at an ear-
lier date.
(e) Procedure.—Insofar as possible, pro-
ceedings of the committee will be conducted
without resort to the formalities of par-
liamentary procedure and with due regard
for the views of all members. Issues of proce-
dure which may arise from time to time
shall be resolved by decision of the chair-
man, in consultation with the ranking mem-
ber. The chairman, in consultation with the
ranking member, may also propose special
procedures to govern the consideration of
particular matters by the committee.
(f) Closed Sessions.—Each meeting and
hearing of the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions, or any subcommittee thereof shall be
open to the public, except that a meeting or
hearing or series of meetings or hearings by
the committee or a subcommittee on the
same subject for a period of no more than 14
calendar days may be closed to the public on
a motion made and seconded to go into
closed session to discuss only whether the
matters enumerated in paragraphs (1)
through (6) would require the meeting or
hearing to be closed followed immediately by
a record vote in open session by a majority
of the members of the committee or sub-
committee when it is determined that the
matters to be discussed or the testimony to
be taken at such meeting or hearing or series
of meetings or hearings—
(1) will disclose matters necessary to be
kept secret in the interests of national de-
fense or the confidential conduct of the for-
eign relations of the United States;
(2) will relate solely to matters of com-
mittee staff personnel or internal staff man-
agement or procedure;
(3) will tend to charge an individual with
crime or misconduct; to disgrace or injure
the professional standing of an individual, or
otherwise to expose an individual to public
contempt or obloquy, or will represent a
clearly unwarranted invasion of the privacy
of an individual;
(4) will disclose the identity of any in-
former or law enforcement agent or will dis-
close any information relating to the inves-
tigation or prosecution of a criminal offense
that is required to be kept secret in the in-
terests of effective law enforcement;
(5) will disclose information relating to
the trade secrets or financial or commercial
information pertaining specifically to a
given person if—
(A) an Act of Congress requires the infor-
mation to be kept confidential by govern-
ment officers and employees; or
(B) the information has been obtained by
the government on a confidential basis,
other than through an application by such
person for a specific government financial or
other benefit, and is required to be kept se-
cret in order to prevent undue injury to the
competitive position of such person, or
(6) may divulge matters required to be
kept confidential under other provisions of
law or government regulations.
A closed meeting or hearing may be opened
by a majority vote of the committee.
(g) Staff Attendance.—A member of the
committee may have one member of his or
her personal staff, for whom that member as-
sumes personal responsibility, accompany
and be seated nearby at committee meetings
and hearings. The chairman or ranking
member may authorize the attendance and
seating of such a staff member at committee
meetings and hearings where the member of
the committee is not present.
Each member of the committee may des-
ignate members of his or her personal staff
for whom that member assumes personal re-
sponsibility, who holds, at a minimum, a top
secret security clearance, for the purpose of
their eligibility to attend closed sessions of
the committee, subject to the same condi-
tions set forth for committee staff under
Rules 12, 13, and 14.
In addition, the majority leader and the
minority leader of the Senate, if they are not
otherwise members of the committee, may
designate one member of their staff for
whom that leader assumes personal responsi-
bility and who holds, at a minimum, a top
secret security clearance, to attend closed
sessions of the committee, subject to the
same conditions set forth for committee
staff under Rules 12, 13, and 14.
Staff of other Senators who are not mem-
bers of the committee may not attend closed
sessions of the committee.
Attendance of committee staff at meetings
and hearings shall be limited to those des-
ignated by the staff director or the minority
staff director.
The committee, by majority vote, or the
chairman, with the concurrence of the rank-
ing member, may limit staff attendance at
specified meetings or hearings.
RULE 4—QUORUMS
(a) Testimony.—For the purpose of taking
sworn or unsworn testimony at any duly
scheduled meeting a quorum of the com-
mittee and each subcommittee thereof shall
consist of one member of such committee or
subcommittee.
(b) Business.—A quorum for the trans-
action of committee or subcommittee busi-
ness, other than for reporting a measure or
recommendation to the Senate or the taking
of testimony, shall consist of one-third of
the members of the committee or sub-
committee, including at least one member
from each party.
(c) Reporting.—A majority of the member-
ship of the committee, including at least one
member from each party, shall constitute a
quorum for reporting any measure or rec-
ommendation to the Senate. No measure or
recommendation shall be ordered reported
from the committee unless a majority of the
committee members is physically present,
including at least one member from each
party, and a majority of those present con-
curs.
RULE 5—PROXIES
Proxies must be in writing with the signa-
ture of the absent member. Subject to the re-
quirements of Rule 4 for the physical pres-
ence of a quorum to report a matter, proxy
voting shall be allowed on all measures and
matters before the committee. However,
proxies shall not be voted on a measure or
matter except when the absent member has
been informed of the matter on which he is
being recorded and has affirmatively re-
quested that he or she be so recorded.
RULE 6—WITNESSES
(a) General.—The Committee on Foreign
Relations will consider requests to testify on
any matter or measure pending before the
committee.
(b) Presentation.—If the chairman so deter-
mines, the oral presentation of witnesses
shall be limited to 10 minutes. However,
written statements of reasonable length may
be submitted by witnesses and other inter-
ested persons who are unable to testify in
person.
(c) Filing of Statements.—A witness appear-
ing before the committee, or any sub-
committee thereof, shall submit an elec-
tronic copy of the written statement of his
proposed testimony at least 24 hours prior to
his appearance, unless this requirement is
waived by the chairman and the ranking
member following their determination that
there is good cause for failure to file such a
statement.
(d) Expenses.—Only the chairman may au-
thorize expenditures of funds for the ex-
penses of witnesses appearing before the
committee or its subcommittees.
(e) Requests.—Any witness called for a
hearing may submit a written request to the
chairman no later than 24 hours in advance
for his testimony to be in closed or open ses-
sion, or for any other unusual procedure. The
chairman shall determine whether to grant
any such request and shall notify the com-
mittee members of the request and of his de-
cision.
RULE 7—SUBPOENAS
(a) Authorization.—The chairman or any
other member of the committee, when au-
thorized by a majority vote of the committee
at a meeting or by proxies, shall have au-
thority to subpoena the attendance of wit-
nesses or the production of memoranda, doc-
uments, records, or any other materials. At
the request of any member of the committee,
the committee shall authorize the issuance
of a subpoena only at a meeting of the com-
mittee. When the committee authorizes a
subpoena, it may be issued upon the signa-
ture of the chairman or any other member
designated by the committee.
(b) Return.—A subpoena, or a request to an
agency, for documents may be issued whose
return shall occur at a time and place other
than that of a scheduled committee meeting.
A return on such a subpoena or request
which is incomplete or accompanied by an
objection constitutes good cause for a hear-
ing on shortened notice. Upon such a return,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00093 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.023 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1124 February 7, 2019
the chairman or any other member des-
ignated by him may convene a hearing by
giving 4 hours notice by telephone or elec-
tronic mail to all other members. One mem-
ber shall constitute a quorum for such a
hearing. The sole purpose of such a hearing
shall be to elucidate further information
about the return and to rule on the objec-
tion.
(c) Depositions.—At the direction of the
committee, staff is authorized to take depo-
sitions from witnesses.
RULE 8—REPORTS
(a) Filing.—When the committee has or-
dered a measure or recommendation re-
ported, the report thereon shall be filed in
the Senate at the earliest practicable time.
(b) Supplemental, Minority and Additional
Views.—A member of the committee who
gives notice of his intentions to file supple-
mental, minority, or additional views at the
time of final committee approval of a meas-
ure or matter, shall be entitled to not less
than 3 calendar days in which to file such
views, in writing (including by electronic
mail), with the chief clerk of the committee,
with the 3 days to begin at 11:00 p.m. on the
same day that the committee has ordered a
measure or matter reported. Such views
shall then be included in the committee re-
port and printed in the same volume, as a
part thereof, and their inclusion shall be
noted on the cover of the report. In the ab-
sence of timely notice, the committee report
may be filed and printed immediately with-
out such views.
(c) Roll Call Votes.—The results of all roll
call votes taken in any meeting of the com-
mittee on any measure, or amendment there-
to, shall be announced in the committee re-
port. The announcement shall include a tab-
ulation of the votes cast in favor and votes
cast in opposition to each such measure and
amendment by each member of the com-
mittee.
RULE 9—TREATIES
(a) General.—The committee is the only
committee of the Senate with jurisdiction to
review and report to the Senate on treaties
submitted by the President for Senate advice
and consent to ratification. Because the
House of Representatives has no role in the
approval of treaties, the committee is there-
fore the only congressional committee with
responsibility for treaties.
(b) Committee Proceedings.—Once submitted
by the President for advice and consent, each
treaty is referred to the committee and re-
mains on its calendar from Congress to Con-
gress until the committee takes action to re-
port it to the Senate or recommend its re-
turn to the President, or until the com-
mittee is discharged of the treaty by the
Senate.
(c) Floor Proceedings.—In accordance with
Senate Rule XXX.2, treaties which have been
reported to the Senate but not acted on be-
fore the end of a Congress ‘‘shall be resumed
at the commencement of the next Congress
as if no proceedings had previously been had
thereon.’’
(d) Hearings.—Insofar as possible, the com-
mittee should conduct a public hearing on
each treaty as soon as possible after its sub-
mission by the President. Except in extraor-
dinary circumstances, treaties reported to
the Senate shall be accompanied by a writ-
ten report.
RULE 10—NOMINATIONS
(a) Waiting Requirement.—Unless otherwise
directed by the chairman and the ranking
member, the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions shall not consider any nomination
until 5 business days after it has been for-
mally submitted to the Senate.
(b) Public Consideration.—Nominees for any
post who are invited to appear before the
committee shall be heard in public session,
unless a majority of the committee decrees
otherwise, consistent with Rule 3(f).
(c) Required Data.—No nomination shall be
reported to the Senate unless (1) the nomi-
nee has been accorded a security clearance
on the basis of a thorough investigation by
executive branch agencies; (2) the nominee
has filed a financial disclosure report and a
related ethics undertaking with the com-
mittee; (3) the committee has been assured
that the nominee does not have any interests
which could conflict with the interests of the
government in the exercise of the nominee’s
proposed responsibilities; (4) for persons
nominated to be chief of mission, ambas-
sador-at-large, or minister, the committee
has received a complete list of any contribu-
tions made by the nominee or members of
his immediate family to any Federal elec-
tion campaign during the year of his or her
nomination and for the 4 preceding years; (5)
for persons nominated to be chiefs of mis-
sion, the report required by Section 304(a)(4)
of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 on the
demonstrated competence of that nominee
to perform the duties of the position to
which he or she has been nominated; and (6)
the nominee has provided the committee
with a signed and notarized copy of the com-
mittee questionnaire for executive branch
nominees.
RULE 11—TRAVEL
(a) Foreign Travel.—No member of the
Committee on Foreign Relations or its staff
shall travel abroad on committee business
unless specifically authorized by the chair-
man, who is required by law to approve
vouchers and report expenditures of foreign
currencies, and the ranking member. Re-
quests for authorization of such travel shall
state the purpose and, when completed, a full
substantive and financial report shall be
filed with the committee within 30 days.
This report shall be furnished to all members
of the committee and shall not be otherwise
disseminated without authorization of the
chairman and the ranking member. Except
in extraordinary circumstances, staff travel
shall not be approved unless the reporting
requirements have been fulfilled for all prior
trips. Except for travel that is strictly per-
sonal, travel funded by non-U.S. Government
sources is subject to the same approval and
substantive reporting requirements as U.S.
Government-funded travel. In addition,
members and staff are reminded to consult
the Senate Code of Conduct, and, as appro-
priate, the Senate Select Committee on Eth-
ics, in the case of travel sponsored by non-
U.S. Government sources.
Any proposed travel by committee staff for
a subcommittee purpose must be approved
by the subcommittee chairman and ranking
member prior to submission of the request to
the chairman and ranking member of the full
committee.
(b) Domestic Travel.—All official travel in
the United States by the committee staff
shall be approved in advance by the staff di-
rector, or in the case of minority staff, by
the minority staff director.
(c) Personal Staff Travel.—As a general
rule, no more than one member of the per-
sonal staff of a member of the committee
may travel with that member with the ap-
proval of the chairman and the ranking
member of the committee. During such trav-
el, the personal staff member shall be consid-
ered to be an employee of the committee.
(d) PRM Travel.—For the purposes of this
rule regarding staff foreign travel, the offi-
cially-designated personal representative of
the member pursuant to rule 14(b), shall be
deemed to have the same rights, duties, and
responsibilities as members of the staff of
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
RULE 12—TRANSCRIPTS AND MATERIALS
PROVIDED TO THE COMMITTEE
(a) General.—The Committee on Foreign
Relations shall keep verbatim transcripts of
all committee and subcommittee meetings
and hearings and such transcripts shall re-
main in the custody of the committee, unless
a majority of the committee decides other-
wise. Transcripts of public hearings by the
committee shall be published unless the
chairman, with the concurrence of the rank-
ing member, determines otherwise.
The committee, through the chief clerk,
shall also maintain at least one copy of all
materials provided to the committee by the
Executive Branch; such copy shall remain in
the custody of the committee and be subject
to the committee’s rules and procedures, in-
cluding those rules and procedures applica-
ble to the handling of classified materials.
Such transcripts and materials shall be
made available to all members of the com-
mittee, committee staff, and designated per-
sonal representatives of members of the
committee, except as otherwise provided in
these rules.
(b) Classified or Restricted Transcripts or Ma-
terials.—
(1) The chief clerk of the committee shall
have responsibility for the maintenance and
security of classified or restricted tran-
scripts or materials, and shall ensure that
such transcripts or materials are handled in
a manner consistent with the requirements
of the United States Senate Security Man-
ual.
(2) A record shall be maintained of each
use of classified or restricted transcripts or
materials as required by the Senate Security
Manual.
(3) Classified transcripts or materials may
not leave the committee offices, or SVC–217
of the Capitol Visitors Center, except for the
purpose of declassification or archiving, con-
sistent with these rules.
(4) Extreme care shall be exercised to
avoid taking notes or quotes from classified
transcripts or materials. Their contents may
not be divulged to any unauthorized person.
(5) Subject to any additional restrictions
imposed by the chairman with the concur-
rence of the ranking member, only the fol-
lowing persons are authorized to have access
to classified or restricted transcripts or ma-
terials:
(A) Members and staff of the committee in
the committee offices or in SVC–217 of the
Capitol Visitors Center;
(B) Designated personal representatives of
members of the committee, and of the ma-
jority and minority leaders, with appropriate
security clearances, in the committee offices
or in SVC–217 of the Capitol Visitors Center;
(C) Senators not members of the com-
mittee, by permission of the chairman, in
the committee offices or in SVC–217 of the
Capitol Visitors Center; and
(D) Officials of the executive departments
involved in the meeting, hearing, or matter,
with authorization of the chairman, in the
committee offices or SVC–217 of the Capitol
Visitors Center.
(6) Any restrictions imposed by the com-
mittee upon access to a meeting or hearing
of the committee shall also apply to the
transcript of such meeting, except by special
permission of the chairman and ranking
member.
(7) In addition to restrictions resulting
from the inclusion of any classified informa-
tion in the transcript of a committee meet-
ing or hearing, members and staff shall not
discuss with anyone the proceedings of the
committee in closed session or reveal infor-
mation conveyed or discussed in such a ses-
sion unless that person would have been per-
mitted to attend the session itself or is a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00094 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.023 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1125
February 7, 2019
member or staff of a relevant committee or
executive branch agency and possess an ap-
propriate security clearance, or unless such
communication is specifically authorized by
the chairman, the ranking member, or in the
case of staff, by the staff director or minor-
ity staff director. A record shall be kept of
all such authorizations.
(c) Declassification.—
(1) All noncurrent records of the com-
mittee are governed by Rule XI of the Stand-
ing Rules of the Senate and by S. Res. 474
(96th Congress). Any classified transcripts or
materials transferred to the National Ar-
chives and Records Administration under
Rule XI may not be made available for pub-
lic use unless they have been subject to de-
classification review in accordance with ap-
plicable laws or Executive orders.
(2) Any transcript or classified committee
report, or any portion thereof, may be de-
classified, in accordance with applicable laws
or Executive orders, sooner than the time pe-
riod provided for under S. Res. 474 if:
(A) the chairman originates such action,
with the concurrence of the ranking mem-
ber;
(B) the other current members of the com-
mittee who participated in such meeting or
report have been notified of the proposed de-
classification, and have not objected thereto,
except that the committee by majority vote
may overrule any objections thereby raised
to early declassification; and
(C) the executive departments that par-
ticipated in the meeting or originated the
classified information have been consulted
regarding the declassification.
RULE 13—CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
(a) General.—The handling of classified in-
formation in the Senate is governed by S.
Res. 243 (100th Congress), which established
the Office of Senate Security. All handling of
classified information by the committee
shall be consistent with the procedures set
forth in the United States Senate Security
Manual issued by the Office of Senate Secu-
rity.
(b) Security Manager.—The chief clerk is
the security manager for the committee. The
chief clerk shall be responsible for imple-
menting the provisions of the Senate Secu-
rity Manual and for serving as the com-
mittee liaison to the Office of Senate Secu-
rity. The staff director, in consultation with
the minority staff director, may appoint an
alternate security manager as circumstances
warrant.
(c) Transportation of Classified Material.—
Classified material may only be transported
between Senate offices by appropriately
cleared staff members who have been specifi-
cally authorized to do so by the security
manager.
(d) Access to Classified Material.—In gen-
eral, Senators and staff undertake to confine
their access to classified information on the
basis of a ‘‘need to know’’ such information
related to their committee responsibilities.
(e) Staff Clearances.—The chairman, or, in
the case of minority staff, the ranking mem-
ber, shall designate the members of the com-
mittee staff whose assignments require ac-
cess to classified and compartmented infor-
mation and shall seek to obtain the requisite
security clearances pursuant to Office of
Senate Security procedures.
(f) PRM Clearances.—For the purposes of
this rule regarding security clearances and
access to compartmented information, the
officially-designated personal representative
of the member (PRM) pursuant to rule 14(b),
shall be deemed to have the same rights, du-
ties, and responsibilities as members of the
staff of the Committee on Foreign Relations.
(g) Regulations.—The staff director is au-
thorized to make such administrative regu-
lations as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions of this rule.
RULE 14—STAFF
(a) Responsibilities.—
(1) The staff works for the committee as a
whole, under the general supervision of the
chairman of the committee, and the imme-
diate direction of the staff director, except
that such part of the staff as is designated
minority staff shall be under the general su-
pervision of the ranking member and under
the immediate direction of the minority
staff director.
(2) Any member of the committee should
feel free to call upon the staff at any time
for assistance in connection with committee
business. Members of the Senate not mem-
bers of the committee who call upon the
staff for assistance from time to time should
be given assistance subject to the overriding
responsibility of the staff to the committee.
(3) The staff’s primary responsibility is
with respect to bills, resolutions, treaties,
and nominations and other matters within
the jurisdiction of the committee. In addi-
tion to carrying out assignments from the
committee and its individual members, the
staff has a responsibility to originate sugges-
tions for committee or subcommittee consid-
eration. The staff also has a responsibility to
make suggestions to individual members re-
garding matters of special interest to such
members.
(4) It is part of the staff’s duty to keep
itself as well informed as possible in regard
to developments affecting foreign relations
and national security and in regard to the
administration of foreign programs of the
United States. Significant trends or develop-
ments which might otherwise escape notice
should be called to the attention of the com-
mittee, or of individual Senators with par-
ticular interests.
(5) The staff shall pay due regard to the
constitutional separation of powers between
the Senate and the executive branch. It
therefore has a responsibility to help the
committee bring to bear an independent, ob-
jective judgment of proposals by the execu-
tive branch and when appropriate to origi-
nate sound proposals of its own. At the same
time, the staff shall avoid impinging upon
the day-to-day conduct of foreign affairs.
(6) In those instances when committee ac-
tion requires the expression of minority
views, the staff shall assist the minority as
fully as the majority to the end that all
points of view may be fully considered by
members of the committee and of the Sen-
ate. The staff shall bear in mind that under
our constitutional system it is the responsi-
bility of the elected members of the Senate
to determine legislative issues in the light of
as full and fair a presentation of the facts as
the staff may be able to obtain.
(b) Personal Representatives of the Member
(PRM).—Each Senator on the committee
shall be authorized to designate one personal
staff member as the member’s personal rep-
resentative of the member and designee to
the committee (PRM) that shall be deemed
to have the same rights, duties, and respon-
sibilities as members of the staff of the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations where specifi-
cally provided for in these rules.
(c) Restrictions.—
(1) The staff shall regard its relationship
to the committee as a privileged one, in the
nature of the relationship of a lawyer to a
client. In order to protect this relationship
and the mutual confidence which must pre-
vail if the committee-staff relationship is to
be a satisfactory and fruitful one, the fol-
lowing criteria shall apply, unless staff has
consulted with and obtained, as appropriate,
the approval of the Senate Ethics Committee
and advance permission from the staff direc-
tor (or the minority staff director in the case
of minority staff):
(A) members of the staff shall not be iden-
tified with any special interest group in the
field of foreign relations or allow their
names to be used by any such group; and
(B) members of the staff shall not accept
public speaking engagements or write for
publication in the field of foreign relations.
(2) The staff shall not discuss their private
conversations with members of the com-
mittee without specific advance permission
from the Senator or Senators concerned.
(3) The staff shall not discuss with anyone
the proceedings of the committee in closed
session or reveal information conveyed or
discussed in such a session unless that per-
son would have been permitted to attend the
session itself or is a member or staff of a rel-
evant committee or executive branch agency
and possesses an appropriate security clear-
ance, or unless such communication is spe-
cifically authorized by the staff director or
minority staff director. Unauthorized disclo-
sure of information from a closed session or
of classified information shall be cause for
immediate dismissal and may, in certain
cases, be grounds for criminal prosecution.
RULE 15—STATUS AND AMENDMENT OF RULES
(a) Status.—In addition to the foregoing,
the Committee on Foreign Relations is gov-
erned by the Standing Rules of the Senate,
which shall take precedence in the event of
a clear inconsistency. In addition, the juris-
diction and responsibilities of the committee
with respect to certain matters, as well as
the timing and procedure for their consider-
ation in committee, may be governed by
statute.
(b) Amendment.—These rules may be modi-
fied, amended, or repealed by a majority of
the committee, provided that a notice in
writing (including by electronic mail) of the
proposed change has been given to each
member at least 72 hours prior to the meet-
ing at which action thereon is to be taken.
However, rules of the committee which are
based upon Senate rules may not be super-
seded by committee vote alone.
f
COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS
AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP RULES
OF PROCEDURE
Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship’s rules for the 116th Con-
gress be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
SENATE COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
COMMITTEE RULES—116TH CONGRESS
QUORUMS
(a) (1) A majority of the Members of the
Committee shall constitute a quorum for re-
porting any legislative measure or nomina-
tion.
(2) One-third of the Members of the Com-
mittee shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of routine business, provided
that one Minority Member is present. The
term ‘‘routine business’’ includes, but is not
limited to, the consideration of legislation
pending before the Committee and any
amendments thereto, and voting on such
amendments, and steps in an investigation
including, but not limited to, authorizing
the issuance of a subpoena.
(3) In hearings, whether in public or closed
session, a quorum for the asking of testi-
mony, including sworn testimony, shall con-
sist of one Member of the Committee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00095 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.023 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1126 February 7, 2019
(b) Proxies will be permitted in voting
upon the business of the Committee. A Mem-
ber who is unable to attend a business meet-
ing may submit a proxy vote on any matter,
in writing, or through oral or written per-
sonal instructions to a Member of the Com-
mittee or staff. Proxies shall in no case be
counted for establishing a quorum.
HEARINGS, SUBPOENAS, & LEGAL COUNSEL
(a)(1) The Chair of the Committee may ini-
tiate a hearing of the Committee on his or
her authority or upon his or her approval of
a request by any Member of the Committee.
If such request is by the Ranking Member, a
decision shall be communicated to the Rank-
ing Member within 7 business days. Written
notice of all hearings, including the title, a
description of the hearing, and a tentative
witness list shall be given at least 5 business
days in advance, where practicable, to all
Members of the Committee.
(2) Hearings of the Committee shall not be
scheduled outside the District of Columbia
unless specifically authorized by the Chair
and the Ranking Minority Member or by
consent of a majority of the Committee.
Such consent may be given informally, with-
out a meeting, but must be in writing.
(b)(1) Any Member of the Committee shall
be empowered to administer the oath to any
witness testifying as to fact.
(2) The Chair and Ranking Member shall be
empowered to call an equal number of wit-
nesses to a Committee hearing. Subject to
Senate Standing Rule 26(4)(d), such number
shall exclude any Administration witness
unless such witness would be the sole hear-
ing witness, in which case the Ranking Mem-
ber shall be entitled to invite one witness.
The preceding two sentences shall not apply
when a witness appears as the nominee. In-
terrogation of witnesses at hearings shall be
conducted on behalf of the Committee by
Members of the Committee or such Com-
mittee staff as is authorized by the Chair or
Ranking Minority Member.
(3) Witnesses appearing before the Com-
mittee shall file with the Clerk of the Com-
mittee a written statement of the prepared
testimony at least two business days in ad-
vance of the hearing at which the witness is
to appear unless this requirement is waived
by the Chair and the Ranking Minority
Member.
(c) Any witness summoned to a public or
closed hearing may be accompanied by coun-
sel of his or her own choosing, who shall be
permitted while the witness is testifying to
advise the witness of his or her legal rights.
Failure to obtain counsel will not excuse the
witness from appearing and testifying.
(d) Subpoenas for the attendance of wit-
nesses or the production of memoranda, doc-
uments, records, and other materials may be
authorized by the Chair with the consent of
the Ranking Minority Member or by the con-
sent of a majority of the Members of the
Committee. Such consent may be given in-
formally, without a meeting, but must be in
writing. The Chair may subpoena attendance
or production without the consent of the
Ranking Minority Member when the Chair
has not received notification from the Rank-
ing Minority Member of disapproval of the
subpoena within 72 hours of being notified of
the intended subpoena, excluding Saturdays,
Sundays, and holidays. Subpoenas shall be
issued by the Chair or by the Member of the
Committee designated by him or her. A sub-
poena for the attendance of a witness shall
state briefly the purpose of the hearing and
the matter or matters to which the witness
is expected to testify. A subpoena for the
production of memoranda, documents,
records, and other materials shall identify
the papers or materials required to be pro-
duced with as much particularity as is prac-
ticable.
(e) The Chair shall rule on any objections
or assertions of privilege as to testimony or
evidence in response to subpoenas or ques-
tions of Committee Members and staff in
hearings.
(f) Testimony may be submitted to the for-
mal record for a period not less than two
weeks following a hearing or roundtable, un-
less otherwise agreed to by Chair and Rank-
ing Member.
MEETINGS
(a) The regular meeting day of the Com-
mittee shall be the first Wednesday of each
month unless otherwise directed by the
Chair. All other meetings may be called by
the Chair as he or she deems necessary, on 5
business days notice where practicable. If at
least three Members of the Committee desire
the Chair to call a special meeting, they may
file in the office of the Committee a written
request therefore, addressed to the Chair.
Immediately thereafter, the Clerk of the
Committee shall notify the Chair of such re-
quest. If, within 3 calendar days after the fil-
ing of such request, the Chair fails to call
the requested special meeting, which is to be
held within 7 calendar days after the filing of
such request, a majority of the Committee
Members may file in the Office of the Com-
mittee their written notice that a special
Committee meeting will be held, specifying
the date, hour and place thereof, and the
Committee shall meet at that time and
place. Immediately upon the filing of such
notice, the Clerk of the Committee shall no-
tify all Committee Members that such spe-
cial meeting will be held and inform them of
its date, hour and place. If the Chair is not
present at any regular, additional or special
meeting, such member of the Committee as
the Chair shall designate shall preside. For
any meeting or hearing of the Committee,
the Ranking Member may delegate to any
Minority Member the authority to serve as
Ranking Member, and that Minority Member
shall be afforded all the rights and respon-
sibilities of the Ranking Member for the du-
ration of that meeting or hearing. Notice of
any designation shall be provided to the
Chief Clerk as early as practicable.
(b) It shall not be in order for the Com-
mittee to consider any amendment in the
first degree proposed to any measure under
consideration by the Committee unless an
electronic copy of such amendment has been
delivered to the Clerk of the Committee at
least 2 business days prior to the meeting.
Following receipt of all amendments, the
Clerk shall disseminate the amendments to
all Members of the Committee. This sub-
section may be waived by agreement of the
Chair and Ranking Member or by a majority
vote of the members of the Committee.
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
(a) No confidential testimony taken by, or
confidential material presented to, the Com-
mittee in executive session, or any report of
the proceedings of a closed hearing, or con-
fidential testimony or material submitted
pursuant to a subpoena, shall be made pub-
lic, either in whole or in part or by way of
summary, unless authorized by a majority of
the Members. Other confidential material or
testimony submitted to the Committee may
be disclosed if authorized by the Chair with
the consent of the Ranking Member.
(b) Persons asserting confidentiality of
documents or materials submitted to the
Committee offices shall clearly designate
them as such on their face. Designation of
submissions as confidential does not prevent
their use in furtherance of Committee busi-
ness.
AMENDMENT OF RULES
The foregoing rules may be added to, modi-
fied or amended; provided, however, that not
less than a majority of the entire Member-
ship so determined at a regular meeting with
due notice, or at a meeting specifically
called for that purpose.
MEDIA & BROADCASTING
(a) At the discretion of the Chair, public
meetings of the Committee may be televised,
broadcasted, or recorded in whole or in part
by a member of the Senate Press Gallery or
an employee of the Senate. Any such person
wishing to televise, broadcast, or record a
Committee meeting must request approval
of the Chair by submitting a written request
to the Committee Office by 5 p.m. the day
before the meeting. Notice of televised or
broadcasted hearings shall be provided to the
Ranking Minority Member as soon as prac-
ticable.
(b) During public meetings of the Com-
mittee, any person using a camera, micro-
phone, or other electronic equipment may
not position or use the equipment in a way
that interferes with the seating, vision, or
hearing of Committee members or staff on
the dais, or with the orderly process of the
meeting.
SUBCOMMITTEES
The Committee shall not have standing
subcommittees.
NOMINATIONS
In considering a nomination, the Com-
mittee shall conduct an investigation or re-
view of the nominee’s experience, qualifica-
tions, suitability, and integrity to serve in
the position to which he or she has been
nominated. In any hearings on the nomina-
tion, the nominee shall be called to testify
under oath on all matters relating to his or
her nomination for office. To aid in such in-
vestigation or review, each nominee may be
required to submit a sworn detailed state-
ment including biographical, financial, pol-
icy, and other information which the Com-
mittee may request. The Committee may
specify which items in such statement are to
be received on a confidential basis.
GENERAL
All applicable provisions of the Standing
Rules of the Senate, the Senate Resolutions,
and the Legislative Reorganization Acts of
1946 and of 1970 (as amended), shall govern
the Committee.
MEDIA & BROADCASTING
(a) At the discretion of the Chair, public
meetings of the Committee may be televised,
broadcasted, or recorded in whole or in part
by a member of the Senate Press Gallery or
an employee of the Senate. Any such person
wishing to televise, broadcast, or record a
Committee meeting must request approval
of the Chair by submitting a written request
to the Committee Office by 5 p.m. the day
before the meeting. Notice of televised or
broadcasted hearings shall be provided to the
Ranking Minority Member as soon as prac-
ticable.
(b) During public meetings of the Com-
mittee, any person using a camera, micro-
phone, or other electronic equipment may
not position or use the equipment in a way
that interferes with the seating, vision, or
hearing of Committee members or staff on
the dais, or with the orderly process of the
meeting.
AMENDMENT OF RULES
The foregoing rules may be added to, modi-
fied or amended; provided, however, that not
less than a majority of the entire Member-
ship so determined at a regular meeting with
due notice, or at a meeting specifically
called for that purpose.
JURISDICTION
Per Rule XXV(1) of the Standing Rules of
the Senate:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00096 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.016 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1127
February 7, 2019
(1) Committee on Small Business and En-
trepreneurship to which committee shall be
referred all proposed legislation, messages,
petitions, memorials, and other matters re-
lating to the Small Business Administration;
(2) Any proposed legislation reported by
such committee which relates to matters
other than the functions of the Small Busi-
ness Administration shall, at the request of
the chairman of any standing committee
having jurisdiction over the subject matter
extraneous to the functions of the Small
Business Administration, be considered and
reported by such standing committee prior
to its consideration by the Senate; and like-
wise measures reported by other committees
directly relating to the Small Business Ad-
ministration shall, at the request of the
Chair of the Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship, be referred to the
Committee on Small Business and Entrepre-
neurship for its consideration of any portion
of the measure dealing with the Small Busi-
ness Administration and be reported by this
committee prior to its consideration by the
Senate.
(3) Such committee shall also study and
survey by means of research and investiga-
tion all problems of American small business
enterprises, and report thereon from time to
time.
f
150TH ANNIVERSARY OF
LIMESTONE, MAINE
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, on Feb-
ruary 26, the town of Limestone, ME,
will mark the 150th anniversary of its
incorporation. As one who was born
and raised in the neighboring city of
Caribou, it is a great pleasure to cele-
brate the generations of industrious
and caring people who have made
Limestone such a wonderful place to
live, work, and raise families.
The story of Limestone begins long
before its incorporation in 1869. For
thousands of years, Aroostook County
has been the home of the Micmac and
Maliseet; the name Aroostook comes
from the Native American word for
‘‘beautiful river.’’ French explorers, led
by Samuel de Champlain, first visited
the area in 1604.
For decades after the American Rev-
olution, Maine’s northernmost region
was the site of a protracted and tense
border dispute between our new Nation
and British Canada. As negotiations to
end what is now called the Bloodless
Aroostook War neared completion in
the early 1840s, families and entre-
preneurs settled in the area.
Among them was General Mark
Trafton, a veteran of the War of 1812,
who was drawn to the region by the
great deposits of limestone, vast stands
of timber, and fertile soil. Soon a thriv-
ing settlement developed, and the pros-
perity derived from quarries, sawmills,
and farms was invested in schools and
churches to make a true community.
Later in the 19th century, the people
of Limestone joined their neighboring
towns in connecting their remote re-
gion to the world with their own hands.
Town by town, they built roads and
railroads with pick, shovel, and wheel-
barrow. These transportation net-
works, combined with the region’s rich
soil, made Aroostook County an agri-
cultural powerhouse, and the potato in-
dustry remains an essential part of the
Maine economy.
People were drawn to Limestone in
search of liberty and opportunity, and
they have always worked and sacrificed
to extend those blessings to others.
Veterans’ monuments throughout the
area stand in honor of the many heroes
who gave their lives so that all could
be free.
During the Cold War, Loring Air
Force Base was established in Lime-
stone, due to its proximity to northern
Europe, and it became a crucial for-
ward post in America’s defense. The
closure of the base in 1994 was a dif-
ficult challenge for the people of Lime-
stone, who responded with the qualities
that wrote their history: strength, de-
termination, and a strong work ethic.
With the transformation of the former
base into the Loring Commerce Centre,
Maine’s largest industrial park, they
are building new jobs and opportuni-
ties.
Limestone’s support for our Armed
Forces continues at the Defense Fi-
nance and Accounting Service facility
at the Loring Commerce Centre, where
hundreds of hard-working and dedi-
cated employees have established a
reputation for excellence. The Loring
Job Corps Center, also at the former
air base, has helped thousands of young
people gain the skills to succeed in the
workplace and to further their edu-
cations. In addition, part of the air
base was converted into the Aroostook
National Wildlife Refuge, a protected
area of forests and wetlands, and home
to moose, lynx, waterfowl, and rare
plant species.
The Maine School of Science and
Mathematics, MSSM, a public residen-
tial magnet high school, was estab-
lished in 1995 and is ranked as the best
high school in Maine and among the
best in the country. The MSSM Key
Club, a joint effort between the school
and the local Kiwanis, carries out
many community service and chari-
table projects throughout the year.
The spirit of Limestone is evident in
the energy that so many will devote to
this exciting yearlong sesquicentennial
celebration. The celebration of
Limestone’s 150th anniversary is not
merely about the passing of time. It is
about the people who for generations
have pulled together, cared for one an-
other, and built a great community.
Thanks to those who came before,
Limestone, ME, has a wonderful his-
tory. Thanks to those there today, it
has a bright future.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO 2019 ARKANSAS BUSI-
NESS HALL OF FAME INDUCTEES
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today
I wish to recognize the Arkansas Busi-
ness Hall of Fame Class of 2019 and
their contributions to industry, our
State and beyond.
Clairborne P. Deming, Joe M. Steele,
Warren A. Stephens and John W. Tyson
are icons and trailblazers. They shaped
my home State of Arkansas and their
business fields and industries where
their influence continues to be felt
today.
The Sam M. Walton College of Busi-
ness at the University of Arkansas es-
tablished the Arkansas Business Hall
of Fame to recognize Arkansans—by
birth or by choice—who have been in-
fluential business leaders and ensure
their reputations and achievements are
enshrined for future generations. Cur-
rently, there are more than 80 Arkan-
sans who have been inducted.
This year’s inductees are certainly
worthy of joining the ranks of those
who have the distinction of being
named to the Arkansas Business Hall
of Fame.
Claiborne P. Deming, the former
president and CEO and current chair-
man of Murphy Oil, started his career
with the El Dorado-based oil company
as a staff attorney after graduating
from Tulane Law School in 1979. He
served as executive vice president and
chief operating officer at Murphy Oil
before becoming the president and
chief executive officer in 1994.
During Deming’s tenure as CEO the
company expanded internationally, tri-
pled its production and oil and gas re-
serves and started an important busi-
ness relationship with Walmart, where-
by Murphy built and operated gasoline
stations and convenience stores in
Walmart Supercenter parking lots.
However, Deming’s legacy extends be-
yond business.
In 2007, he worked with the com-
pany’s board of directors on a $50 mil-
lion proposal to create an educational
scholarship for students graduating
from El Dorado High School. The pro-
gram, called the El Dorado Promise,
awards all graduates a scholarship
equal to instate tuition and mandatory
fees for bachelor or associate college
degrees. The Promise scholarship has
provided funding to over 2,000 students
over the 10 years since it was estab-
lished. Deming retired as CEO in 2008
and became chairman of the Murphy
Oil Corporation’s board of directors, a
position he still holds today.
Joe M. Steele established Steele Can-
ning Company in 1924 while still a teen-
ager, packing tomatoes inside a shed
on his family farm in Lowell. By 1932,
Steele’s young business had outgrown
the small plant and he moved his oper-
ation to Springdale where it continued
to grow rapidly. During World War II,
70 percent of Steele’s canning products
were diverted to the Armed Forces and
became a regular export to soldiers on
every battlefront.
Steele Canning was instrumental in
several innovative marketing initia-
tives including sponsoring the Beatles’
1964 tour and increasing instore spin-
ach sales with the addition of Popeye
to its label. By the 1970s, Steele Can-
ning became the industry standard and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:20 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00097 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.017 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1128 February 7, 2019
was one of the largest canning compa-
nies in the Nation before its sale to
Pioneer Food Industries.
Steele’s legacy also lives on at the
Beaver Water District. In 1960, Steele
and fellow community leaders joined
forces to explore ways to supply North-
west Arkansas with a long-term supply
of clean, safe water. Steele and his col-
leagues advocated for the U.S. Water
Supply Act which passed in 1958 and
paved the way for the establishment of
the Beaver Water District. Because of
his efforts, long-term, abundant and ec-
onomical drinking water became a re-
ality for Northwest Arkansas.
Warren A. Stephens joined his father
and uncle at Stephens Inc., a Little
Rock-based investment bank and pri-
vate equity firm, as a member of the
corporate-finance department after
graduating from Wake Forest Univer-
sity with his MBA in 1981. By 1983 he
was named the head of corporate fi-
nance, and just three short years later
he was named CEO of Stephens Inc. on
his 29th birthday.
In 2006, Warren acquired 100 percent
of Stephens Inc. When the global eco-
nomic crisis hit just a little more than
a year later, Warren’s leadership
helped the company remain on sound
footing and continue to grow. When
Warren’s tenure as CEO began, the
company employed only 100 workers
and had just one location in Little
Rock. Now, over 30 years later, Ste-
phens Inc. has more than 1,000 employ-
ees and 28 locations across the country.
In addition to his responsibilities at
Stephens Inc., Warren currently serves
on the board of directors of Dillard’s
Inc., is a member of the Arkansas Arts
Center Foundation Board and is the
chairman of the Episcopal Collegiate
School Foundation Board.
John W. Tyson began his career in
the poultry market during the Great
Depression, hauling chickens from his
family’s farm to nearby cities to sell.
When he learned that poultry prices
were higher in the northern regions of
the country, Tyson invested his sav-
ings and borrowed enough money to
load up a truck full of chickens and
drive them from Arkansas to Chicago.
The long-haul trip proved to be suc-
cessful.
His young business expanded greatly
during World War II. As food rationing
drove up the demand for poultry,
Tyson moved into the business of rais-
ing chicks and milling feed. In 1947,
Tyson Feed and Hatchery was incor-
porated and provided chicks, feed and
trucking services to local poultry
farmers. The company reached new
heights of success in the 1950s, and in
1952 Tyson’s son, Don, joined the fam-
ily business as general manager.
In 1963, the company went public as
Tyson’s Foods Inc. and began a crusade
of acquisitions that would grow Tyson
Foods into a world-class protein pro-
ducer. In 1966, Tyson named his son
Don as president of Tyson Foods Inc
but stayed on as chairman and chief
executive officer. Today, thanks to
Tyson’s flexible business strategy,
Tyson Foods is the largest processor
and marketer of chicken, beef and pork
in the nation.
The 2019 inductees are innovative
leaders, successful entrepreneurs and
determined job creators who have real-
ized the rewards of taking risks. I con-
gratulate Claiborne P. Deming, Joe M.
Steele, Warren A. Stephens and John
W. Tyson for their outstanding
achievements in business and thank
them for the positive impact they have
had on the state of Arkansas. They are
certainly deserving of induction in the
Arkansas Business Hall of Fame.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO MARLO PRONOVOST
AND CARLI TORESDHAL
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
Marlo Pronovost and Carli Toresdhal
for their impact on the Gallatin and
Stillwater Counties.
Marlo and Carli are two sisters from
Bozeman, MT. Born and raised in Mon-
tana, they both attended Bozeman
High School and have stayed close to
the area throughout their lives. Later
in their lives, the two sisters both mar-
ried members of Montana law enforce-
ment.
Marlo met her husband 20 years ago,
while working as a journalist at the
Bozeman Daily Chronicle. Assigned to
cover the Bozeman Police Department,
they quickly fell in love. Carli met her
husband also in Bozeman, where he
worked in marketing and at the county
jail, later becoming a police officer. He
has now been a sergeant for 12 years.
Throughout their lives, Marlo and
Carli were faced with the biggest chal-
lenge of being married to members of
law enforcement—the unknown. They
stayed strong in overcoming those
challenges due to the sense of commu-
nity between other members of Mon-
tana law enforcement and their fami-
lies. Marlo and Carli relied on the Mon-
tana law enforcement community to
back each other, regardless of the color
of the uniform or department.
I applaud Marlo and Carli for their
dedication to Montana. They stayed
strong for their communities and have
made a lasting impact on the State of
Montana.∑
f
REMEMBERING LYNDA
DELAFORGUE
∑ Ms. DUCKWORTH. Mr. President,
today I wish to pay tribute to the re-
markable life of Lynda DeLaforgue.
DeLaforgue was an activist and friend
who passed away on January 12, 2019, in
her Chicago, IL, home due to complica-
tions from metastatic colon cancer.
DeLaforgue, a graduate from Rock-
ford College, had over 30 years of expe-
rience working in the public interest.
She was a longtime activist and was
also, for many years, the codirector of
Citizen Action/Illinois. She was an in-
strumental voice in the progressive
movement, serving as a leader in the
fight to preserve healthcare by engag-
ing local stakeholders against the re-
peal of the Affordable Health Care Act.
She was instrumental in organizing
many townhalls and galvanizing local
groups for causes on behalf of working
men and women.
DeLaforgue was a sustaining board
member of the Healthy Schools Cam-
paign and a member of the USAction
board of directors, as well as a 2013 re-
cipient of the Chicago Coalition of
Labor Union Women’s Olga Mader
Award.
Her service to her community was re-
markable, and she will be greatly
missed by the countless people she
came across, including myself.
DeLaforgue is survived by her daugh-
ter Katy DeLaforgue Hintzen, her son
Jordan, her life partner Brian Reizfeld,
her mother June Kaczur-Tate, and her
sister Laura.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO ANN TAYLOR
∑ Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I wish
to pay tribute to Ann Taylor, who is
retiring from Connecticut Children’s
Medical Center after 19 years of service
to the children of Connecticut.
Dating back to my time as the chair-
man of the State legislature’s Public
Health Committee, Ann has been a
great friend and counsel to me. I have
relied on her policy expertise and acu-
men, and I have drawn inspiration from
her relentless focus on improving the
lives of Connecticut’s kids.
Throughout her career, Ann has both
led and managed various departments
across Connecticut Children’s Medical
Center, including legal, risk manage-
ment, compliance, strategic planning,
government relations, marketing and
communications, and the foundation.
Ann has been the voice of Connecti-
cut’s kids here in Washington. She suc-
cessfully advocated for funding that
supports Connecticut Children’s vital
role as an academic medical center,
healthcare reform efforts that protect
children with preexisting medical con-
ditions, and protections for the Med-
icaid Program that maintain a critical
safety net for more than one-third of
Connecticut’s children. At the State
level, her drive to improve health out-
comes for children led her to establish
Connecticut Children’s Medical-Legal
Partnership Project, which is devoted
to providing traditional legal represen-
tation for children within a com-
prehensive approach to the child’s
healthcare needs. The project also
worked to secure funding that im-
proved access to care for children and
adolescents in behavioral health crisis
through the establishment of the
CARES unit on the Institute of Living
campus.
On a more personal level, I have seen
firsthand the dedication Ann has for
every single child who intersects with
Connecticut Children’s. She doesn’t
just advocate for broad-based policies;
she works for every single patient. I re-
call working with her for days on one
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00098 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.034 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1129
February 7, 2019
single case—a little girl who because of
her complicated immigration status
was having difficulty getting insurance
coverage for her expensive, rare med-
ical condition. Ann worked with me to
make sure that little girl got what she
needed, so that her life could be ex-
tended for a few more years. I am sure
Ann went that extra mile for countless
other children, and that will likely be
the legacy she leaves.
The impact of Ann’s work will be felt
by children and families for years to
come, and we are grateful for her serv-
ice. I hope Connecticut realizes how
lucky it was to have her fighting for
children’s healthcare for the last two
decades.∑
f
REMEMBERING LAURA EILEEN
ORR
∑ Ms. SINEMA. Mr. President, today I
wish to honor the life and legacy of
Laura Eileen Orr, who passed away on
January 16, 2019, at the age of 68. Mrs.
Orr was born in Missouri on October 2,
1950. She served as a dedicated adviser
to the students of Arizona State Uni-
versity for 50 years. Our State will
miss her dearly.
Mrs. Orr began her career at ASU in
1968 and later went on to become the
academic and student services manager
at the College of Public Programs
School of Social Work. She was a fierce
advocate for students facing adversi-
ties and was renowned by her pupils
and colleagues alike for her unwaver-
ing patience, encouragement, and mag-
nanimity toward everyone she encoun-
tered. I was privileged to work with
Laura for over 10 years, first as a stu-
dent in the master of social work pro-
gram and later as a part-time professor
in the school of social work. She was a
joy to work with over the years.
An avid sports fan, Mrs. Orr enjoyed
supporting both the Sun Devils and the
Cardinals at football games. She also
enjoyed theaters and frequently at-
tended performances and listened to
Broadway play recordings.
Mrs. Orr is survived by her husband
of 45 years, Karl Orr, her two sisters
Barbra Voelker and Nancee
VanderPluyn; her two sons, Chris-
topher and Michael and their wives,
Danielle and Amanda; as well as four
grandchildren; Brayden, Benjamin, Isa-
bella, and Joseph. Please join me in
honoring her memory.∑
f
REMEMBERING JOHN BUSHMAN
∑ Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, today I
wish to remember the life of a Mon-
tanan who dedicated his career to
working on behalf of Native Americans
across the Nation.
John Bushman was born in Montana
and grew up in Wolf Point on the Fort
Peck Reservation, before moving to
San Francisco and eventually Wash-
ington, DC, where he entered into pub-
lic service, first working for the De-
partment of the Interior before serving
as chief counsel for the Committee on
Indian Affairs.
I’m honored to serve on that Com-
mittee, which works hard every day to
ensure our government upholds its
treaty and trust responsibilities to In-
dian Country.
A member of the Turtle Mountain
Band of Chippewa, John worked for
Senator Paul Wellstone of Minnesota
on issues relevant to Native Americans
across the country. He eventually
served as the Tribal Director for the
Department of Health and Human
Services.
His service didn’t end in retirement;
John continued to make a difference
for others by volunteering often, in-
cluding with the Salute Military Golf
Association, which teaches wounded
veterans how to play golf.
I stand to honor John’s memory, and
in the hope that others may be inspired
by his legacy of service.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 12:03 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bills, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 66. An act to establish the Route 66
Centennial Commission, to direct the Sec-
retary of Transportation to prepare a plan
on the preservation needs of Route 66, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 543. An act to require the Federal
Railroad Administration to provide appro-
priate congressional notice of comprehensive
safety assessments conducted with respect to
intercity or commuter rail passenger trans-
portation.
H.R. 831. An act to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to request nominations for
and make determinations regarding roads to
be designated under the national scenic by-
ways program, and for other purposes.
H.R. 866. An act to provide a lactation
room in public buildings.
H.R. 876. An act to direct the Adminis-
trator of the Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency to carry out a plan for the pur-
chase and installation of an earthquake
early warning system for the Cascadia
Subduction Zone, and for other purposes.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 66. An act to establish the Route 66
Centennial Commission, to direct the Sec-
retary of Transportation to prepare a plan
on the preservation needs of Route 66, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
H.R. 543. An act to require the Federal
Railroad Administration to provide appro-
priate congressional notice of comprehensive
safety assessments conducted with respect to
intercity or commuter rail passenger trans-
portation; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
H.R. 831. An act to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to request nominations for
and make determinations regarding roads to
be designated under the national scenic by-
ways program, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
H.R. 866. An act to provide a lactation
room in public buildings; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
H.R. 876. An act to direct the Adminis-
trator of the Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency to carry out a plan for the pur-
chase and installation of an earthquake
early warning system for the Cascadia
Subduction Zone, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–222. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Retroactive Stop Loss Spe-
cial Pay Compensations’’ (RIN0790–AK39) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 5, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
EC–223. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Unsatisfactory Performance
of Ready Reserve Obligation’’ (RIN0790–
AK28) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on February 5, 2019; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–224. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Participation in Reserve
Training Programs’’ (RIN0790–AK29) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 5, 2019; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–225. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Compensation of Certain
Former Operatives Incarcerated by the
Democratic Republic of Vietnam’’ (RIN0790–
AK38) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on February 5, 2019; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–226. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the Department of Commerce’s Bu-
reau of Industry and Security Annual Report
for fiscal year 2018; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–227. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
entitled ‘‘Bureau of Consumer Financial Pro-
tection Fiscal Year 2019: Annual Perform-
ance Plan and Report, and Budget Over-
view’’; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–228. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Bureau of Legislative Affairs,
Department of State, transmitting, pursuant
to law, a six-month periodic report relative
to the continuation of the national emer-
gency with respect to the proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction that was origi-
nally declared in Executive Order 12938 of
November 14, 1994; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–229. A communication from the Chair-
man, Securities and Exchange Commission,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 2017 An-
nual Report of the Securities Investor Pro-
tection Corporation (SIPC); to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–230. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00099 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.037 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1130 February 7, 2019
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Missouri; Emis-
sions Inventory for the Missouri Jackson
County and Jefferson County 2010 Sulfur Di-
oxide National Ambient Air Quality Stand-
ard Nonattainment Areas’’ (FRL No. 9988–46–
Region 7) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on February 4, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–231. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Civil Monetary Penalty Inflation Ad-
justment Rule’’ (FRL No. 9988–90–OECA) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 4, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–232. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Management Standards for Haz-
ardous Waste Pharmaceuticals and Amend-
ment to the P075 Listing for Nicotine’’ (FRL
No. 9988–26–OLEM) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on February 4,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–233. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘National Emission Standards for Haz-
ardous Air Pollutants: Leather Finishing Op-
erations Residual Risk and Technology Re-
view’’ (FRL No. 9988–83–OAR) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 4, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–234. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘National Pollutant Discharge Elimi-
nation System (NPDES): Additional Provi-
sions Affecting Application and Program Up-
dates Rule’’ (FRL No. 9988–87–OW) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 4, 2019; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
EC–235. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Regulation of Fuels and Fuel Addi-
tives: Removal of the Reformulated Gasoline
Program from the Northern Kentucky Por-
tion of the Cincinnati-Hamilton Ozone Main-
tenance Area’’ (FRL No. 9988–86–OAR) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 4, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–236. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Computa-
tion of Annual Liability Insurance (Includ-
ing Self-Insurance), No-Fault Insurance, and
Worker’s Compensation Settlement Recov-
ery Threshold’’; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
EC–237. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Maximum Values
for 2018 for Use With Vehicle Cents-Per-Mile
and Fleet-Average Valuation Rules’’ (Notice
2019–08) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on February 4, 2019; to the
Committee on Finance.
EC–238. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Section 162(a) Safe
Harbors for Certain Payments Made by a C
Corporation or a Specified Pass-Through En-
tity in Exchange for a State or Local Tax
Credit’’ (Notice 2019–12) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on February 4,
2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–239. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Making Elections
under Section 179 and 168’’ (Rev. Proc. 2019–
08) received in the Office of the President of
the Senate on February 4, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–240. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Public Approval of
Tax-Exempt Private Activity Bonds’’
(RIN1545–BG91) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on February 4, 2019;
to the Committee on Finance.
EC–241. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Individual Shared
Responsibility Payment Hardship Exemp-
tions that May Be Claimed on a Federal In-
come Tax Return Without Obtaining a Hard-
ship Exemption Certification from the Mar-
ketplace for the 2018 Tax Year’’ (Notice 2019–
05) received in the Office of the President of
the Senate on February 4, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–242. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revenue Procedure
2019–3’’ (Rev. Proc. 2019–3) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Feb-
ruary 4, 2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–243. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Previously Taxed
Earnings and Profits Accounts’’ (Notice 2019–
01) received in the Office of the President of
the Senate on February 4, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–244. A communication from the Chief of
the Publications and Regulations Branch, In-
ternal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Update to Revenue
Procedure 2018–4’’ (Rev. Proc. 2019–4) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on February 4, 2019; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
EC–245. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Report to
Congress: Children’s Hospitals Graduate
Medical Education Payment Program’’ ; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
EC–246. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Report to
Congress: Teaching Heath Center Graduate
Medical Education Direct and Indirect
Training Expenses Report’’ ; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–247. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Regulations and Policy Management
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Food Additives Permitted in
Feed and Drinking Water of Animals; Formic
Acid’’ ((21 CFR Part 573) (Docket No. FDA–
2017–F–2130)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on February 4, 2019;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–248. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Occupational Safety and
Health Administration, Department of
Labor, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Tracking of Work-
place Injuries and Illnesses’’ (RIN1218–AD17)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 4, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–249. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–680, ‘‘Sense of the Council in
Support of Transgender, Intersex, and Gen-
der Non-Conforming Communities Resolu-
tion of 2018’’; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–250. A communication from the Assist-
ant Director of Regulation Policy and Man-
agement, Department of Veterans Affairs,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Civil Penalties In-
flation Adjustment Act Amendments’’
((RIN2900–AQ55) (38 CFR Parts 36 and 42)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on February 4, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. ROBERTS, from the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, with-
out amendment:
S. Res. 54. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on Ag-
riculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Mr. ISAKSON, from the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs, without amendment:
S. Res. 55. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. RISCH, from the Committee on
Foreign Relations, without amendment:
S. Res. 56. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
By Mr. GRAHAM, from the Committee on
the Judiciary, without amendment:
S. Res. 57. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Ms. COLLINS, from the Special Com-
mittee on Aging, without amendment:
S. Res. 58. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Special Committee
on Aging.
By Mr. ENZI, from the Committee on the
Budget, without amendment:
S. Res. 60. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on the
Budget.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. GRAHAM for the Committee on the
Judiciary.
William Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to be
Attorney General.
Allison Jones Rushing, of North Carolina,
to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Fourth Circuit.
Eric D. Miller, of Washington, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
Chad A. Readler, of Ohio, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:19 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00100 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.027 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1131
February 7, 2019
Eric E. Murphy, of Ohio, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit.
Paul B. Matey, of New Jersey, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit.
Bridget S. Bade, of Arizona, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
Daniel Desmond Domenico, of Colorado, to
be United States District Judge for the Dis-
trict of Colorado.
Matthew J. Kacsmaryk, of Texas, to be
United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Texas.
Howard C. Nielson, Jr., of Utah, to be
United States District Judge for the District
of Utah.
Wendy Vitter, of Louisiana, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Louisiana.
Michael J. Truncale, of Texas, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Texas.
J. Campbell Barker, of Texas, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Texas.
Patrick R. Wyrick, of Oklahoma, to be
United States District Judge for the Western
District of Oklahoma.
Allen Cothrel Winsor, of Florida, to be
United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Florida.
Andrew Lynn Brasher, of Alabama, to be
United States District Judge for the Middle
District of Alabama.
David Steven Morales, of Texas, to be
United States District Judge for the South-
ern District of Texas.
Holly A. Brady, of Indiana, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Indiana.
Roy Kalman Altman, of Florida, to be
United States District Judge for the South-
ern District of Florida.
Rodolfo Armando Ruiz II, of Florida, to be
United States District Judge for the South-
ern District of Florida.
Raul M. Arias-Marxuach, of Puerto Rico,
to be United States District Judge for the
District of Puerto Rico.
Stephen R. Clark, Sr., of Missouri, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Missouri.
Joshua Wolson, of Pennsylvania, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania.
Carl J. Nichols, of the District of Colum-
bia, to be United States District Judge for
the District of Columbia.
Kenneth D. Bell, of North Carolina, to be
United States District Judge for the Western
District of North Carolina.
Ryan T. Holte, of Ohio, to be a Judge of the
United States Court of Federal Claims for a
term of fifteen years.
Rossie David Alston, Jr., of Virginia, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Virginia.
Sarah Daggett Morrison, of Ohio, to be
United States District Judge for the South-
ern District of Ohio.
Pamela A. Barker, of Ohio, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Ohio.
Corey Landon Maze, of Alabama, to be
United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Alabama.
Rodney Smith, of Florida, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of Florida.
Wendy Williams Berger, of Florida, to be
United States District Judge for the Middle
District of Florida.
Thomas P. Barber, of Florida, to be United
States District Judge for the Middle District
of Florida.
T. Kent Wetherell II, of Florida, to be
United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Florida.
Karin J. Immergut, of Oregon, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Or-
egon.
Jean-Paul Boulee, of Georgia, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Georgia.
James David Cain, Jr., of Louisiana, to be
United States District Judge for the Western
District of Louisiana.
Damon Ray Leichty, of Indiana, to be
United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Indiana.
J. Nicholas Ranjan, of Pennsylvania, to be
United States District Judge for the Western
District of Pennsylvania.
Brian C. Buescher, of Nebraska, to be
United States District Judge for the District
of Nebraska.
Clifton L. Corker, of Tennessee, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Tennessee.
John Milton Younge, of Pennsylvania, to
be United States District Judge for the East-
ern District of Pennsylvania.
Richard A. Hertling, of Maryland, to be a
Judge of the United States Court of Federal
Claims for a term of fifteen years.
M. Miller Baker, of Louisiana, to be a
Judge of the United States Court of Inter-
national Trade.
Timothy M. Reif, of the District of Colum-
bia, to be a Judge of the United States Court
of International Trade.
Donald W. Washington, of Texas, to be Di-
rector of the United States Marshals Service.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. WYDEN, Ms. HIRONO, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. LEAHY, Ms. SMITH, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. HEINRICH, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mr. MERKLEY, Mrs. MURRAY,
Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms.
ROSEN, Mr. MURPHY, and Mr. BEN-
NET):
S. 367. A bill to provide for the administra-
tion of certain national monuments, to es-
tablish a National Monument Enhancement
Fund, and to establish certain wilderness
areas in the States of New Mexico and Ne-
vada; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Ms.
COLLINS, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI, Mr. BENNET, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. CARDIN,
Mr. CARPER, Mr. CASEY, Mr. COONS,
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Mr. DURBIN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. HASSAN,
Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. KAINE,
Mr. KING, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MENENDEZ,
Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. MURPHY, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. PETERS, Mr. REED, Ms.
ROSEN, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms.
SINEMA, Ms. SMITH, Ms. STABENOW,
Mr. TESTER, Mr. UDALL, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Ms. WARREN, Mr. WARNER,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 368. A bill to prohibit the application of
certain restrictive eligibility requirements
to foreign nongovernmental organizations
with respect to the provision of assistance
under part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr.
TILLIS):
S. 369. A bill to reauthorize the Blue Ridge
National Heritage Area; to the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. LEE, and Mr.
LEAHY):
S. 370. A bill to amend the Sherman Act to
make oil-producing and exporting cartels il-
legal; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself and Mr.
VAN HOLLEN):
S. 371. A bill to provide regulatory relief to
charitable organizations that provide hous-
ing assistance, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
By Mr. RISCH (for himself and Mr.
CRAPO):
S. 372. A bill to appropriately limit the im-
pact of the presence of large Federal instal-
lations in the delineation of core based sta-
tistical areas; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself, Ms.
COLLINS, and Mr. REED):
S. 373. A bill to provide for the retention
and service of transgender individuals in the
Armed Forces; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms.
SINEMA, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. HASSAN,
Mr. SANDERS, Mr. KING, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and
Mrs. MURRAY):
S. 374. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to expand health care and bene-
fits from the Department of Veterans Affairs
for military sexual trauma, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. CARPER (for himself, Mr.
JOHNSON, Mr. PETERS, and Mr.
BRAUN):
S. 375. A bill to improve efforts to identify
and reduce Governmentwide improper pay-
ments, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Mr. PAUL (for himself, Mr. RUBIO,
Mr. CRUZ, and Mr. LEE):
S. 376. A bill to amend the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act to clarify the defini-
tion of navigable waters, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Ms. BALD-
WIN, and Ms. KLOBUCHAR):
S. 377. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to require the Secretary
of Health and Human Services to negotiate
prices of prescription drugs furnished under
part D of the Medicare program; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, and Ms. HASSAN):
S. 378. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to establish an excise tax
on certain prescription drugs which have
been subject to a price spike, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, and Mr. MANCHIN):
S. 379. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to permit amounts paid for
programs to obtain a recognized postsec-
ondary credential or a license to be treated
as qualified higher education expenses for
purposes of a 529 account; to the Committee
on Finance.
By Mr. JOHNSON:
S. 380. A bill to increase access to agency
guidance documents; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:54 May 07, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00101 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\FEBRUARY\S07FE9.REC S07FE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1132 February 7, 2019
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
BENNET):
S. 381. A bill to direct the Administrator of
the National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration to submit to Congress a report on
the merits of, and options for, establishing
an institute relating to space resources, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr.
BENNET, Mr. JONES, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mrs. CAPITO, Ms. COLLINS,
Mr. CORNYN, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. ENZI,
Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. GARDNER, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. INHOFE, Mr.
JOHNSON, Mr. KING, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. MANCHIN, Mr. PETERS, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. THUNE, Mr. UDALL, Mr. WICKER,
and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 382. A bill to authorize a special re-
source study on the spread vectors of chronic
wasting disease in Cervidae, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mrs. CAPITO, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. CRAMER, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. MANCHIN, Mr. CARPER, and Mr.
ENZI):
S. 383. A bill to support carbon dioxide uti-
lization and direct air capture research, to
facilitate the permitting and development of
carbon capture, utilization, and sequestra-
tion projects and carbon dioxide pipelines,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself and Mr.
PETERS):
S. 384. A bill to require the Secretary of
Commerce, acting through the Director of
the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, to help facilitate the adoption
of composite technology in infrastructure in
the United States, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Ms. WARREN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. SANDERS, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mr. UDALL):
S. 385. A bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to provide increased
labor law protections for agricultural work-
ers, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. LEE (for himself, Ms. HARRIS,
Mr. CRAMER, Mr. BLUNT, Ms. COLLINS,
Mr. MORAN, Mr. CARPER, Mr. WYDEN,
Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. GARDNER, Mr.
COTTON, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. BENNET, and Ms. SINEMA):
S. 386. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to eliminate the per-
country numerical limitation for employ-
ment-based immigrants, to increase the per-
country numerical limitation for family-
sponsored immigrants, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr.
JOHNSON, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. ERNST,
Mr. BROWN, and Mr. PORTMAN):
S. 387. A bill to prohibit Federal agencies
and Federal contractors from requesting
that an applicant for employment disclose
criminal history record information before
the applicant has received a conditional
offer, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mr.
WYDEN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. MARKEY, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. MERKLEY,
and Ms. KLOBUCHAR):
S. 388. A bill to reduce the ability of the
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
to engage in inappropriate civil immigration
enforcement actions that harm unaccom-
panied alien children and to ensure the safe-
ty and welfare of unaccompanied alien chil-
dren; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MORAN (for himself and Mr.
ROBERTS):
S. 389. A bill to authorize the Society of
the First Infantry Division to make modi-
fications to the First Division Monument lo-
cated on Federal land in Presidential Park in
the District of Columbia, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. ENZI:
S. 390. A bill to clarify that funding for the
Securities Investor Protection Corporation
is not subject to the sequester; to the Com-
mittee on the Budget.
By Mr. ENZI:
S. 391. A bill to clarify that funding for the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
is not subject to the sequester; to the Com-
mittee on the Budget.
By Mr. ENZI:
S. 392. A bill to clarify that funding for the
standard setting body designated pursuant
to section 19(b) of the Securities Act of 1933
is not subject to the sequester; to the Com-
mittee on the Budget.
By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. COONS, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Mr. DURBIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms.
HARRIS, Ms. HIRONO, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. LEAHY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Ms. WARREN, and Mr. WHITEHOUSE):
S. 393. A bill to amend title 28, United
States Code, to provide for a code of conduct
for justices and judges of the courts of the
United States; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Mr.
CARPER, and Ms. HASSAN):
S. 394. A bill to amend the Presidential
Transition Act of 1963 to improve the orderly
transfer of the executive power during Presi-
dential transitions; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Ms.
SINEMA, Mr. RISCH, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
ROBERTS, and Mr. JONES):
S. 395. A bill to require each agency, in
providing notice of a rule making, to include
a link to a 100 word plain language summary
of the proposed rule; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself and Mr.
PETERS):
S. 396. A bill to amend section 1202 of title
5, United States Code, to modify the continu-
ation of service provision for members of the
Merit Systems Protection Board; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
By Mr. MERKLEY:
S. 397. A bill to prohibit the Department of
Health and Human Services from operating
unlicensed temporary emergency shelters for
unaccompanied alien children; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. REED, Mr. GRAHAM, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Ms. COLLINS, and Mr. MUR-
PHY):
S. 398. A bill to support the peaceful reso-
lution of the civil war in Yemen, to address
the resulting humanitarian crisis, and to
hold the perpetrators responsible for mur-
dering a Saudi dissident; to the Committee
on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. PAUL (for himself and Mr.
LEAHY):
S. 399. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prevent unjust and irrational
criminal punishments; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself and Mr.
JONES):
S. 400. A bill to gather information about
the illicit production of illicit fentanyl in
foreign countries and to withhold bilateral
assistance from countries that do not have
emergency scheduling procedures for new il-
licit drugs, cannot prosecute criminals for
the manufacture or distribution of con-
trolled substance analogues, or do not re-
quire the registration of tableting machine
and encapsulating machines; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Mr. MURPHY, and Mr. SANDERS):
S. 401. A bill to prohibit the research and
development, production, and deployment of
the Trident D5 low-yield nuclear warhead,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Ms.
MURKOWSKI, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. SANDERS,
Ms. SMITH, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. LEAHY,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 402. A bill to plan, develop, and make
recommendations to increase access to sex-
ual assault examinations for survivors by
holding hospitals accountable and sup-
porting the providers that serve them; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr.
ALEXANDER, Ms. COLLINS, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. ROUNDS, and Mr. BOOKER):
S. 403. A bill to encourage the research and
use of innovative materials and associated
techniques in the construction and preserva-
tion of the domestic transportation and
water infrastructure system, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Mr.
UDALL):
S. 404. A bill to require the Commissioner
of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection
to acquire and enhance technology and as-
sets in rural or remote areas near the south-
ern border and to establish an Agent Mobil-
ity Demonstration Program; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Ms. SMITH, Mr. MURPHY,
and Mr. MERKLEY):
S. 405. A bill to require the publication of
the annual reports required under the Presi-
dential Orders on Buy American and Hire
American and Strengthening Buy-American
Preferences for Infrastructure Projects; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr.
HOEVEN, Ms. HASSAN, and Mr. JOHN-
SON):
S. 406. A bill to establish a Federal rota-
tional cyber workforce program for the Fed-
eral cyber workforce; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself, Ms.
SMITH, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. MANCHIN,
Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. TESTER, Mr. GRA-
HAM, and Mr. DAINES):
S. 407. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the qualifying
advanced coal project credit, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. THUNE:
S. 408. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for annual cost-of-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00102 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.036 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1133
February 7, 2019
living adjustments to be made automatically
by law each year in the rates of disability
compensation for veterans with service-con-
nected disabilities and the rates of depend-
ency and indemnity compensation for sur-
vivors of certain service-connected disabled
veterans, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Ms. STA-
BENOW, Mr. PETERS, Ms. SMITH, Mr.
CARPER, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. REED,
Mr. KAINE, Mr. MANCHIN, Ms. WAR-
REN, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. BENNET, Mr. CARDIN,
Mr. JONES, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Mr. COONS, and Ms. HASSAN):
S. 409. A bill to posthumously award a Con-
gressional Gold Medal in commemoration of
Aretha Franklin; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself
and Mr. TOOMEY):
S. 410. A bill to require the Comptroller
General of the United States to carry out a
study on how virtual currencies and online
marketplaces are used to buy, sell, or facili-
tate the financing of goods or services asso-
ciated with sex trafficking or drug traf-
ficking, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
By Ms. HASSAN (for herself and Mr.
RUBIO):
S. 411. A bill to establish a Counterter-
rorism Advisory Board, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and GovernmentalAffairs.
By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. UDALL, and Ms. HAR-
RIS):
S. 412. A bill to provide a pay incentive for
border patrol agents to complete emergency
medical technician and paramedic training,
to ensure that language interpretation serv-
ices are available at all U.S. Border Patrol
stations, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Ms. MURKOWSKI):
S. 413. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to pro-
mote behavioral health crisis response train-
ing among law enforcement officers; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Mr.
UDALL):
S. 414. A bill to facilitate lawful inter-
national trade by increasing the daily com-
mercial hours of operation at designated
ports of entry along the southern border, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
COONS, and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 415. A bill to provide immigration status
for certain battered spouses and children; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr.
VAN HOLLEN):
S. 416. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to amend the process by
which students with certain special cir-
cumstances apply for Federal financial aid;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. MANCHIN:
S. 417. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to amend the
mission statement of the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mrs.
CAPITO, and Mr. KING):
S. 418. A bill to establish procedures re-
garding the approval of opioid dugs by the
Food and Drug Administration; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. MANCHIN:
S. 419. A bill to require the Food and Drug
Administration to revoke the approval of
one opioid pain medication for each new
opioid pain medication approved; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. WYDEN:
S. 420. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for the taxation
and regulation of marijuana products, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. WYDEN:
S. 421. A bill to amend the Controlled Sub-
stances Act to reduce the gap between Fed-
eral and State marijuana policy, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr. PAUL,
Mr. BENNET, and Mrs. MURRAY):
S. 422. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow deductions and
credits relating to expenditures in connec-
tions with marijuana sales conducted in
compliance with State law; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. MANCHIN:
S. 423. A bill to provide for the sealing of
records relating to Federal nonviolent crimi-
nal offenses related to substance use dis-
orders, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MANCHIN:
S. 424. A bill to clarify the congressional
intent behind the requirements relating to
immediate suspension orders and corrective
action plans under the Controlled Sub-
stances Act that were added by the Ensuring
Patient Access and Effective Drug Enforce-
ment Act of 2016; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. KING,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms. WARREN, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Ms. HASSAN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, and Ms. SMITH):
S. 425. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to establish a stewardship
fee on the production and importation of
opioid pain relievers, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. SCHATZ (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. KAINE, Ms.
HIRONO, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Ms. HARRIS, and Ms. BALDWIN):
S. 426. A bill to increase the rates of pay
under the General Schedule and other statu-
tory pay systems and for prevailing rate em-
ployees by 3.6 percent, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and
Mr. ENZI):
S. 427. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to enhance activities of the Na-
tional Institutes of Health with respect to
research on autism spectrum disorder and
enhance programs relating to autism, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
ENZI, and Mr. LEAHY):
S. 428. A bill to lift the trade embargo on
Cuba; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. THUNE):
S. 429. A bill to require the establishment
of exchange programs relating to cybersecu-
rity positions between the private sector and
certain Federal agencies, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. ROBERTS:
S. Res. 54. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on Ag-
riculture, Nutrition, and Forestry; from the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry; to the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration.
By Mr. ISAKSON:
S. Res. 55. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs; from the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs; to the Committee on Rules
and Administration.
By Mr. RISCH:
S. Res. 56. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on For-
eign Relations; from the Committee on For-
eign Relations; to the Committee on Rules
and Administration.
By Mr. GRAHAM:
S. Res. 57. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on the
Judiciary; from the Committee on the Judi-
ciary; to the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration.
By Ms. COLLINS:
S. Res. 58. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Special Committee
on Aging; from the Special Committee on
Aging; to the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. SANDERS, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. WARREN, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. WYDEN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, and Mr. MURPHY):
S. Res. 59. A resolution recognizing the
duty of the Federal Government to create a
Green New Deal; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
By Mr. ENZI:
S. Res. 60. An original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on the
Budget; from the Committee on the Budget;
to the Committee on Rules and Administra-
tion.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself and
Mr. ALEXANDER):
S. Res. 61. A resolution honoring the life of
Rosemary Mariner; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 27
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
27, a bill to amend the Surface Mining
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to
transfer certain funds to the 1974
United Mine Workers of America Pen-
sion Plan, and for other purposes.
S. 39
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
39, a bill to provide that Members of
Congress may not receive pay after Oc-
tober 1 of any fiscal year in which Con-
gress has not approved a concurrent
resolution on the budget and passed
the regular appropriations bills.
S. 107
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00103 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.038 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1134 February 7, 2019
(Mr. COTTON) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 107, a bill to provide any State
with a child welfare demonstration
project that is scheduled to terminate
at the end of fiscal year 2019 the option
to extend the project for up to 2 addi-
tional years.
S. 116
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 116, a bill to address
maternal mortality and morbidity.
S. 130
At the request of Mr. SASSE, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) and the Senator from Kentucky
(Mr. PAUL) were added as cosponsors of
S. 130, a bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit a health care
practitioner from failing to exercise
the proper degree of care in the case of
a child who survives an abortion or at-
tempted abortion.
S. 153
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 153, a bill to promote veteran
involvement in STEM education, com-
puter science, and scientific research,
and for other purposes.
S. 162
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
names of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY), the Senator from Dela-
ware (Mr. CARPER) and the Senator
from Michigan (Mr. PETERS) were
added as cosponsors of S. 162, a bill to
provide back pay to low-wage con-
tractor employees, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 203
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) and the Senator
from Idaho (Mr. RISCH) were added as
cosponsors of S. 203, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to per-
manently extend the railroad track
maintenance credit, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 227
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and the Senator
from Montana (Mr. DAINES) were added
as cosponsors of S. 227, a bill to direct
the Attorney General to review, revise,
and develop law enforcement and jus-
tice protocols appropriate to address
missing and murdered Indians, and for
other purposes.
S. 237
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 237, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
permit nurse practitioners and physi-
cian assistants to satisfy the docu-
mentation requirement under the
Medicare program for coverage of cer-
tain shoes for individuals with diabe-
tes.
S. 248
At the request of Mr. TILLIS, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. BURR) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 248, a bill to ensure that the
Secretary of the Interior collaborates
fully with State and local authorities
and certain nonprofit entities in man-
aging the Corolla Wild Horse popu-
lation on Federal land.
S. 257
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 257, a bill to provide for
rental assistance for homeless or at-
risk Indian veterans, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 262
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Illinois
(Mr. DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 262, a bill to provide for a pay in-
crease in 2019 for certain civilian em-
ployees of the Federal Government,
and for other purposes.
S. 266
At the request of Mr. REED, the name
of the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
266, a bill to provide for the long-term
improvement of public school facili-
ties, and for other purposes.
S. 279
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 279, a bill to allow tribal grant
schools to participate in the Federal
Employee Health Benefits Program.
S. 296
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII
of the Social Security Act to ensure
more timely access to home health
services for Medicare beneficiaries
under the Medicare program.
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 296, supra.
S. 311
At the request of Mr. SASSE, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) and the Senator from Kentucky
(Mr. PAUL) were added as cosponsors of
S. 311, a bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit a health care
practitioner from failing to exercise
the proper degree of care in the case of
a child who survives an abortion or at-
tempted abortion.
S. 315
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 315, a bill to authorize cyber hunt
and incident response teams at the De-
partment of Homeland Security, and
for other purposes.
S. 331
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added
as a cosponsor of S. 331, a bill to amend
the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of
1975 to modify the exemptions from
certain disclosure requirements.
S. 336
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 336, a bill to direct the Comp-
troller General of the United States to
submit a report on the response of law
enforcement agencies to reports of
missing or murdered Indians.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 362, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to re-
form taxation of alcoholic beverages.
S. 366
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
366, a bill to shorten monopoly periods
for prescription drugs that are the sub-
jects of sudden price hikes.
S. RES. 36
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 36, a resolution supporting the ob-
servation of National Trafficking and
Modern Slavery Prevention Month dur-
ing the period beginning on January 1,
2019, and ending on February 1, 2019, to
raise awareness of, and opposition to,
human trafficking and modern slavery.
AMENDMENT NO. 119
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 119 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 47, a bill to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses.
AMENDMENT NO. 120
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 120 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 47, a bill to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses.
AMENDMENT NO. 121
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 121 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 47, a bill to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses.
AMENDMENT NO. 128
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 128 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 47, a bill to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses.
AMENDMENT NO. 138
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 138 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 47, a bill to provide for the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00104 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.031 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1135
February 7, 2019
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses.
AMENDMENT NO. 145
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of amendment No. 145 intended to be
proposed to S. 47, a bill to provide for
the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 149
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 149 intended to be pro-
posed to S. 47, a bill to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mrs. FISCHER (for herself and
Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. 371. A bill to provide regulatory re-
lief to charitable organizations that
provide housing assistance, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I rise
today to announce the reintroduction
of the bipartisan, bicameral Building
Up Independent Lives and Dreams Act,
more commonly known as the BUILD
Act.
After the passage of the Dodd-Frank
Act in 2010, the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau was tasked with
creating a single set of integrated dis-
closure forms for mortgage loans. This
set of forms, created by the TRID rule,
was designed to provide a more con-
sumer-friendly approach to traditional
mortgage lenders. Its aim was to
streamline disclosure requirements in
the Truth in Lending Act and the Real
Estate Settlements Procedures Act
into a single set of forms.
The measure works for most tradi-
tional mortgage lenders; however, it
buried not-for-profit, charitable orga-
nizations in mountains of paperwork.
The weight of the nearly 2,000-page
TRID rule is not only burdensome but
confusing—especially for small lenders
and housing charities that do not have
the funding to hire financial experts.
The forms present a variety of unnec-
essary obstacles, including the require-
ment for expensive software with a
cost calculator. These costly and com-
plex forms are expected of large banks
and institutions, and they can better
afford to hire experts who are well
versed on the TRID rule, but smaller
community-based organizations, like
Habitat for Humanity, they simply
cannot. The overwhelming majority of
the more than 1,200 Habitat for Human-
ity organizations across our country
are faced with limited resources.
Historically, Habitat for Humanity
has built homes for struggling families
and provided a low- or no-interest loan.
The loan amounts are typically lower
due to the free labor of thousands of
volunteers in Habitat projects around
the world. These loans give Habitat
homeowners a chance to establish
themselves as creditworthy and a fresh
start for their future.
There are currently 15 Habitat for
Humanity affiliates in Nebraska. The
chapters in Omaha, Lincoln, Fremont,
Grand Island, and Columbus, as well as
the Sarpy County and Scotts Bluff
County chapters have voiced their full
support for the BUILD Act. I thank
them for that.
These organizations are a constant
source of hope for our communities
across the State, and they make sig-
nificant contributions to provide a
hand up for struggling families. The ex-
ecutive director of Habitat’s Lincoln
chapter recently sent my office the
story of a local couple who became a
Habitat homeowner.
Abdelkarim and Sailwa worked hard
to provide for their five sons. With help
from Habitat for Humanity, the couple
was approved for a 30-year, zero-inter-
est mortgage on their new home. Pay-
ments are capped at 30 percent of their
combined monthly income. Now Sailwa
can work part time, and Abdelkarim
pursues his degree from Southeast
Community College. He is helping to
secure his family’s future. Their chil-
dren are comfortable in their neighbor-
hood, where they have made new
friends and attend a local school.
The executive director of the Lincoln
chapter continued, saying: ‘‘With the
ability to focus on our mission, instead
of burdensome regulatory requirements
and expenses, we can help more fami-
lies build strength, stability, and self-
reliance through homeownership.
The BUILD Act will do exactly that.
This bill will allow nonprofits to use
the simpler Truth in Lending, good-
faith estimate and HUD–1 forms, in-
stead of that overbearing, nearly 2,000-
page TRID rule. These forms were pre-
viously used for years.
Habitat for Humanity’s volunteers
with financial expertise were once able
to sit down with the borrower and re-
view each section of the forms to-
gether. This gave the volunteer an op-
portunity to teach the new homeowner
about personal finance and the critical
steps he or she could take to grow as a
financially responsible citizen. With
the passage of the BUILD Act, volun-
teers will be able to provide this pru-
dent advice once again.
My office has also been informed that
some Habitat chapters lack the staff-
ing capacity to comply with the TRID
rule. What is more, these chapters do
not possess the adequate funding need-
ed to purchase the required software.
In Habitat for Humanity chapters in
Lincoln, Grand Island, and Fremont,
they are going to benefit from the pas-
sage of the BUILD Act, and I think all
of us in this body can agree that chari-
table organizations like Habitat for
Humanity are a constant source of
hope for families in need. They should
not be hurt because of a preventable
oversight.
By working together and finding
commonsense solutions, we can fix
this. The BUILD Act gained momen-
tum last year and passed the House
unanimously, but we can push this leg-
islation over the finish line during the
116th Congress.
I thank the junior Senator from
Maryland for partnering with me and
helping to reintroduce this bipartisan
legislation. I thank our lead sponsors
in the House who spearheaded this ef-
fort last Congress.
The BUILD Act would provide that
commonsense reform to ensure all
housing charities are able to provide
much needed stability to communities
without being harmed by overly bur-
densome regulations.
The President highlighted a variety
of different ways we can work together
during his State of the Union speech
this week, and I believe the passage of
a bipartisan, bicameral BUILD Act
would be an encouraging start.
By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself,
Mr. BENNET, Mr. JONES, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mrs.
CAPITO, Ms. COLLINS, Mr. COR-
NYN, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. ENZI,
Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. GARDNER,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr.
INHOFE, Mr. JOHNSON, Mr. KING,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. MANCHIN,
Mr. PETERS, Ms. SMITH, Mr.
THUNE, Mr. UDALL, Mr. WICKER,
and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 382. A bill to authorize a special
resource study on the spread vectors of
chronic wasting disease in Cervidae,
and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
have spoken many times in this Cham-
ber about human health from my per-
spective as an orthopedic surgeon.
Today, I am here to talk about a dif-
ferent crisis that is facing our Nation.
Earlier today, 24 of my colleagues
joined me in introducing a bill to com-
bat chronic wasting disease in cervid
populations across this country. Chron-
ic wasting disease is a terrible degen-
erative brain disease. It affects captive
and wild deer, elk, moose, and caribou
in at least 26 States and several Cana-
dian Provinces. It is highly contagious
and always fatal.
In my home State of Wyoming,
chronic wasting disease was first de-
tected back in 1985. Since then, the Wy-
oming Game and Fish Department has
partnered with scientists, State wild-
life managers, and Federal Agencies to
understand how the disease spreads.
Many other state agencies have forged
similar partnerships to study the same
things. Over the last 34 years, their
work has shown that the disease is
spread by prions, but how these prions
actually infect animals remains a mys-
tery.
The disease can be transmitted
through nose-to-nose contact, through
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00105 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.033 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1136 February 7, 2019
animal waste, or through carcasses of
infected animals. Some studies have
suggested that prions can remain in af-
fected soil for up to 16 years.
Well, there is a lot we still don’t
know about the disease, including the
risk to humans. Chronic wasting dis-
ease is a type of transmissible
spongiform encephalopathy, like bo-
vine spongiform encephalopathy and
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
There are a number of diseases I
studied in medical school from a
human standpoint that now seem to be
affecting animals as well.
There have been no reported cases of
this chronic wasting disease in humans
as of this time, but the Centers for Dis-
ease Control takes the risk of human
infection quite seriously. The CDC de-
veloped a list of things people can do to
reduce their own risk of consuming
meat from an infected animal. Across
the country, many people rely on meat
they harvest from deer, moose, and elk
to feed their families. For them hunt-
ing is not a recreational activity but
an important part of their way of life.
Hunting also contributes tens of bil-
lions of dollars in economic activity
each year. Those dollars fund impor-
tant wildlife research and habitat con-
servation and contribute nearly 10,000
jobs in Wyoming alone. Dollars derived
from the sales of tags or hunting li-
censes and hunting equipment are used
by State wildlife agencies to carry out
important monitoring, management,
and conservation work.
If this disease persists and we cannot
instill confidence in the public that the
risk can be controlled, hunting will de-
crease. Fewer licenses sold means less
money for our wildlife agencies, which
means less research. So we need to act
now.
Chronic wasting disease threatens
the iconic deer, elk, and moose herds
that roam our State. It is a threat to
our western heritage, but it is not just
a western problem. Chronic wasting
disease has found its way to Alabama,
New York, and Pennsylvania. After
finding the disease late last year, the
Tennessee Wildlife Resources Agency
now requires hunters to check in their
deer at physical locations to check for
infection. The Muley Fanatic Founda-
tion in Wyoming, which does fantastic
work, told me there is no bigger threat
to our big game populations than the
spread of chronic wasting disease.
The bill is being introduced today.
Senator JONES from Alabama is on the
floor and is going to speak next. The
bill we have introduced today requires
the Department of Agriculture’s Ani-
mal and Plant Health Inspection Serv-
ice and the U.S. Geological Survey to
work with the National Academies of
Science to answer some important
questions about chronic wasting dis-
ease. They will review gaps in current
scientific knowledge about trans-
mission. They will review where Fed-
eral and State best management prac-
tices can better align, and they will re-
view the areas at greatest risk for new
infections.
State wildlife managers need answers
to these questions so they can coordi-
nate prevention and control efforts
among their States and so they can
target their research to fill in any gaps
in current knowledge.
Chronic wasting disease is not a new
threat, but it is one that has fun-
damentally changed our efforts to
manage and conserve wildlife. Un-
checked, this disease can truly be cata-
strophic for wildlife and for local
economies. Across our Nation, whole
industries are built around wildlife,
tourism, wildlife watching, and deer
and elk farming.
I believe this bill and this research
can make a real difference. So I am
glad that so many of my colleagues
agree and have cosponsored this legis-
lation.
Mr. JONES. Mr. President, first, I
would like to thank my colleague from
Wyoming for his work today and for
his work on this very, very important
issue of chronic wasting disease and
prevention. This is an issue of great
importance not only to Alabama but to
26 other States—from Wyoming to Ten-
nessee, Alabama, and Mississippi. This
is an issue which, if we fail to act, will
result in an environmental and eco-
nomic crisis.
Chronic wasting disease, or CWD, is
truly a terrible, contagious neuro-
logical illness that affects all deer, elk,
and moose populations nationwide. It
is a disease that is as bad as it sounds.
It functions much like mad cow dis-
ease.
Senator BARRASSO gave all of the sci-
entific words. He has a little bit more
training in that than I do. So I will just
call it what it is—mad cow disease and
neurological disorders.
It attacks an animal’s nervous sys-
tem and, over time, renders the animal
weak and emaciated, with little con-
trol over its body. The disease has a fa-
tality rate of 100 percent. Every single
animal that contracts this disease dies.
It is highly communicable, spreading
not only through physical contact but
also through contaminated environ-
ments where infected animals have
been.
The jury is still out on whether
chronic wasting disease may be trans-
mitted to humans, but the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention rec-
ommend against consuming animals
contaminated with the disease. In 2017,
a Canadian study documented trans-
mission through consumption of con-
taminated meat to a nonhuman pri-
mate. Clearly, this is something to be
very concerned and cautious about be-
cause of the clear and concrete evi-
dence that it could be transmitted to
humans.
The fact is, the disease is spreading,
and it is spreading fast. Even if it does
not pose an immediate health threat to
humans or at least a documented
health threat right now, it poses a seri-
ous significant financial threat to Ala-
bama and many other States.
The total annual economic contribu-
tion of deer hunting to the U.S. econ-
omy is close to $40 billion. In fact, as a
hunting company, if it were a publicly-
traded company, it would fall in the
top 100 on the Fortune 500 list.
The hunting industry in Alabama
generates $2.6 billion every year for the
State’s economy, and according to the
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, deer
hunting alone generates nearly $2 bil-
lion or roughly 80 percent of that
amount. Obviously, this makes deer
hunting sound like a very big business,
and it is. It is a big business in Ala-
bama, and it is a big business across
the country.
But make no mistake. It is more
than just that. It is more than just an
economy. It is more than money that
comes into our community. Any hun-
ter in Alabama will tell you that hunt-
ing is not only a time-honored tradi-
tion and a recreational pastime. It is in
our State and in so many others a way
of life.
Hunters in Alabama will also tell you
about the devastating effect that CWD
can have in the State of Alabama.
They use the word ‘‘disaster,’’ and they
are not exaggerating.
Chronic wasting disease is spreading
throughout the country, and it is clos-
ing in on Alabama. Cases have already
been confirmed in southern Tennessee
and northeastern Mississippi. A study
out of the University of Tennessee in
Knoxville on the projected impacts of
chronic wasting disease in Tennessee
has predicted a nearly $100 million
total loss to that State alone.
We are thankful currently that no
deer in Alabama have yet tested posi-
tive for CWD, which is a testament to
the hard work being done by groups
like the Alabama Department of Con-
servation and Natural Resources, but
State agencies alone cannot address
this problem. Their budgets are already
strained by the activities that they
currently undertake to monitor and
manage the disease as well as the many
other fine programs they manage in
my State and elsewhere.
Adequate resources must be devoted
to studying the transmission of this
disease and developing strategies for
its containment. If it doesn’t happen,
then CWD, or chronic wasting disease,
in Alabama and in other States not yet
affected becomes not a question of if
but when.
That is why today, along with Sen-
ator BARRASSO from Wyoming and Sen-
ator BENNET from Colorado, we are
proud to introduce the Chronic Wast-
ing Disease Transmission in Cervidae
Study Act.
Once again, I want to commend Sen-
ator BARRASSO, in particular, as the
chairman of the Environment and Pub-
lic Works Committee for his leadership
in this space. I know he cares deeply
about Wyoming’s wildlife population,
but clearly he cares about the popu-
lation and conservation efforts
throughout the country.
Despite its widespread prevalence,
very little is known about CWD and
how it is transmitted. Our bipartisan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00106 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.015 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1137
February 7, 2019
legislation tasks the USDA and the De-
partment of the Interior to work with
the National Academy of Sciences to
conduct a review of the existing
science, how it is spread, and current
best-management practices in order to
get a better handle on what we already
know about the disease and its trans-
mission.
More specifically, this legislation
will allow us to identify the most effec-
tive techniques for prevention, surveil-
lance, and management of the disease.
It will also enable us to get a better
understanding of the total economic
cost of CWD to our State economies, to
wildlife agencies, to landowners, and to
hunters.
A review conducted under this legis-
lation will allow us to gather essential
data that will enable us to conduct bet-
ter research into the future and to bet-
ter formulate our policy goals in order
to mitigate and manage this dev-
astating disease.
Like many Alabamians, I love spend-
ing time outdoors, taking in the
breathtaking nature and wildlife of my
State. Alabama is a gorgeous State
with an incredibly diverse array of
fauna and wildlife. It is an amazing
place. I am also a pretty avid hunter,
and, in fact, this weekend is the last
weekend for deer season in my State,
and I am hoping to get out there this
Sunday, the very last day, for the last
deer hunt of the season as this season
comes to a close. This has really been
a cherished pastime for me and my
youngest child, my son Christopher, for
many, many years.
Taking action to find a solution to
stop the spread of CWD will help to en-
sure that countless other outdoors men
and women—because women are a big
part of the hunting population in the
State of Alabama—can continue to
enjoy this tradition.
We have to do everything we can to
combat what is truly an existential
threat to the deer hunting industry in
my State and around the country. Our
legislation is an essential step forward
in protecting the health of our wildlife,
protecting the health of our environ-
ment, and, ultimately, protecting the
way of life for millions of hunting
Americans.
Thank you, Mr. President.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and
Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. 416. A bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to amend the
process by which students with certain
special circumstances apply for Fed-
eral financial aid; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I would
like to bring the Senate’s attention to
the Free Application for Federal Stu-
dent Aid (FAFSA) Fairness Act of 2019,
common sense legislation I am intro-
ducing with my colleague from Mary-
land, Senator VAN HOLLEN today. This
legislation seeks to eliminate a barrier
that potential college students with
difficult personal and financial cir-
cumstances face when applying for
Federal financial aid that too often has
left them without a path forward to
earning a college education and joining
the middle class.
This body has worked to improve the
college application process for students
and their families over the last several
years and successfully lobbied the De-
partment of Education to allow stu-
dents and their families to submit
their FAFSA application in October
and utilize prior prior-year tax data.
These changes provide future college
students and their families with sev-
eral months to submit their financial
information instead of a short time
frame between January and February
to meet State and institutional-based
deadlines for need- and merit-based fi-
nancial aid programs. These steps have
made it easier for students to sit with
their families and make informed fi-
nancial decisions on which college or
university will provide the highest
quality yet least expensive college edu-
cation.
Despite our work, a number of our
students are being left behind and can-
not take advantage of these changes.
Many of these students face difficult
personal and financial situations. For
instance, some have left home due to
abusive family environments; others
may have parents who are incarcer-
ated. Still others may be unable to lo-
cate their parents. All of the students
in these circumstances are unable to
fill out the FAFSA application. Rather
than fill out one universal Federal fi-
nancial aid application form, a poten-
tial college student must contact each
institution she or he is applying to and
undergo a ‘‘dependency override’’ proc-
ess before a college or university will
put together an estimated financial aid
package for the student. Under this
process, a student applying to one uni-
versity in my State of Maryland, for
instance, must submit nine different
pieces of financial information, a per-
sonal statement, and references to
verify their independent status. These
students, often first generation stu-
dents unfamiliar with the process for
applying to school, may give up on the
dependency override process and fail to
finish the college application process
or leave significant Federal financial
aid on the table.
Mr. President, I think it is unfair
that we place additional burdens on
these students. We should not make
opening the door to a brighter future
harder than it is already. In Maryland,
we know that access to a high-quality,
yet affordable, education is the key to
success and increasingly required for
entry into the middle class. Regardless
of a student’s background or the cir-
cumstances that he or she has fought
to overcome, it is my belief that this
Congress should work to ensure max-
imum access to higher education.
The FAFSA Fairness Act would seek
to correct this inequity for some of our
most vulnerable students. If enacted,
my legislation would allow students in
these difficult personal and financial
circumstances to fill out a FAFSA
form as a ‘‘provisional independent’’
student and receive a provisional deter-
mination of their Federal financial aid
award from the Department of Edu-
cation. The colleges that the student
applies to would receive notification of
the student’s special circumstances
and conduct outreach to inform the
student of the process for completing a
dependency override. After a student
has completed the dependency override
form, the school would provide the stu-
dent with a final financial aid award
package that includes Federal, State,
and institutional need- and merit-based
aid so the student could bargain shop
for the best financial aid award pack-
age between multiple schools. After
such students have been admitted to
college, this legislation would allow
them to remain focused on their class-
work instead of annual recertification
of their independent status by main-
taining the dependency override deci-
sion for as long as they remain in
school or if the university is made
aware of new information about their
status. My legislation would provide
students with a pathway to complete
the FAFSA, one of the first steps to-
wards applying to college and obtain-
ing a foothold in the middle class. It
also provides students with an oppor-
tunity to identify the colleges and uni-
versities that match up the best with
their financial situation and edu-
cational goals.
I am proud to lead this Senate effort
with my colleague from Maryland and
appreciate the work of our delegation,
especially U.S. Representatives ELIJAH
E. CUMMINGS, C.A. DUTCH RUPPERS-
BERGER, and JOHN P. SARBANES, who
are introducing a companion bill in the
U.S. House of Representatives. I urge
my Senate colleagues to join in this ef-
fort to help some of our most vulner-
able and disadvantaged students
achieve their dream of higher edu-
cation despite their difficult family
and financial circumstances.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the text of the bill be printed
in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 416
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘FAFSA
Fairness Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PROVISIONAL INDEPENDENCE FOR CER-
TAIN STUDENTS.
Section 483 of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1090) is amended—
(1) in subsection (h)(1), by inserting the fol-
lowing before the semicolon: ‘‘, including the
special circumstances under which a student
may qualify for a determination of independ-
ence’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(i) PROVISIONAL INDEPENDENT STUDENTS.—
‘‘(1) REQUIREMENTS FOR THE SECRETARY.—
The Secretary shall—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00107 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.016 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1138 February 7, 2019
‘‘(A) enable each student who, based on the
special circumstance specified in subsection
(h)(1), may qualify for an adjustment under
section 479A that will result in a determina-
tion of independence under such section and
section 480(d)(1)(I), to complete the forms de-
veloped by the Secretary under subsection
(a) as an independent student for the purpose
of a provisional determination of the stu-
dent’s Federal financial aid award, but sub-
ject to verification under paragraph (2)(E)
for the purpose of the final determination of
the award;
‘‘(B) upon completion of the forms devel-
oped by the Secretary under subsection (a),
provide an estimate of the student’s Federal
Pell Grant award, based on the assumption
the student is determined to be an inde-
pendent student;
‘‘(C) ensure that, on each form developed
under this section, there is a single and eas-
ily understood screening question to identify
an applicant for aid who wishes to provision-
ally apply for independent status under sec-
tions 479A and 480(d)(1)(I); and
‘‘(D) specify, on the forms, the con-
sequences under section 490(a) of knowingly
and willfully completing the forms as an
independent student under subparagraph (A)
without meeting the special circumstances
to qualify for such a determination.
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS FOR FINANCIAL AID AD-
MINISTRATORS.—With respect to a student ac-
cepted for admission who completes the
forms as an independent student under para-
graph (1)(A), a financial aid administrator—
‘‘(A) shall notify the student of the institu-
tional process and requirements for an ad-
justment under sections 479A and 480(d)(1)(I)
that will result in a determination of inde-
pendence under such sections within a rea-
sonable time after the student completes the
forms developed by the Secretary under sub-
section (a) as an independent student for the
purpose of a provisional determination of the
student’s Federal financial aid award;
‘‘(B) may make an adjustment under sec-
tions 479A and 480(d)(1)(I) for a determina-
tion of independence in the absence of con-
flicting information;
‘‘(C) shall provide a final determination of
the student’s Federal financial aid award to
the student in the same manner as, and by
not later than the date that, the adminis-
trator provides most other provisionally
independent students their final determina-
tions of Federal financial aid awards, or dur-
ing the award year in which the student ini-
tially submits an application, whichever
comes sooner;
‘‘(D) shall, in making a final determination
of the student’s Federal financial aid award,
use the discretion provided under sections
479A and 480(d)(1)(I) to verify whether the
student meets the special circumstances to
qualify as an independent student;
‘‘(E) in accordance with paragraph (B),
may consider as adequate verification that a
student qualifies for an adjustment under
sections 479A and 480(d)(1)(I)—
‘‘(i) submission of a court order or official
Federal or State documentation that the
student’s parent or legal guardian is incar-
cerated in any Federal or State penal insti-
tution;
‘‘(ii) a documented phone call with, or a
written statement from—
‘‘(I) a child welfare agency authorized by a
State or county;
‘‘(II) a Tribal child welfare authority;
‘‘(III) an independent living case worker; or
‘‘(IV) a public or private agency, facility,
or program serving the victims of abuse, ne-
glect, assault, or violence;
‘‘(iii) a documented phone call with, or a
written statement from, an attorney, a
guardian ad litem, or a court appointed spe-
cial advocate, documenting that person’s re-
lationship to the student;
‘‘(iv) a documented phone call with, or a
written statement from, a representative of
a program under chapter 1 or 2 of subpart 2
of part A; or
‘‘(v) submission of a copy of the student’s
biological or adoptive parents’ or legal
guardians’—
‘‘(I) certificates of death; or
‘‘(II) verified obituaries;
‘‘(F) if a student does not have, and cannot
get, documentation from any of the des-
ignated authorities described in subpara-
graph (E) of whether a student may qualify
for an adjustment under sections 479A and
480(d)(1)(I) that will result in a determina-
tion of independence, may base the
verification and final determination on—
‘‘(i) a documented interview with the stu-
dent that is limited to whether the student
meets the requirements, and not about the
reasons for the student’s situations; and
‘‘(ii) an attestation from the student that
they meet the requirements, which includes
a description of the approximate dates that
the student ended the financial or caregiving
relationship with their parent or legal guard-
ian, to the best of the student’s knowledge;
‘‘(G) retain all documents related to the
adjustment under sections 479A and
480(d)(1)(I), including documented interviews,
for the duration of the student’s enrollment
at the institution and for a minimum of 1
year after the student is no longer enrolled
at the institution; and
‘‘(H) shall presume that any student who
has obtained an adjustment under sections
479A and 480(d)(1)(I) and a final determina-
tion of independence for a preceding award
year at an institution to be independent for
a subsequent award year at the same institu-
tion unless—
‘‘(i) the student informs the institution
that circumstances have changed; or
‘‘(ii) the institution has specific conflicting
information about the student’s independ-
ence.’’.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 54—AUTHOR-
IZING EXPENDITURES BY THE
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE,
NUTRITION, AND FORESTRY
Mr. ROBERTS submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; from the Committee
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration:
S. RES. 54
Resolved,
SECTION 1. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
In carrying out its powers, duties, and
functions under the Standing Rules of the
Senate, in accordance with its jurisdiction
under rule XXV of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, including holding hearings, report-
ing such hearings, and making investiga-
tions as authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of
rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the Committee on Agriculture, Nutri-
tion, and Forestry (in this resolution re-
ferred to as the ‘‘committee’’) is authorized
from March 1, 2019 through February 28, 2021,
in its discretion, to—
(1) make expenditures from the contingent
fund of the Senate;
(2) employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
use on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable
basis the services of personnel of any such
department or agency.
SEC. 2. EXPENSES.
(a) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this resolution
shall not exceed $2,758,627, of which
amount—
(1) not to exceed $200,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $40,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(b) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this resolution shall not exceed
$4,729,075, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $200,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $40,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this resolution shall not exceed
$1,970,448, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $200,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $40,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 3. EXPENSES AND AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) EXPENSES OF THE COMMITTEE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), expenses of the committee
under this resolution shall be paid from the
contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers
approved by the chairman of the committee.
(2) VOUCHERS NOT REQUIRED.—Vouchers
shall not be required for—
(A) the disbursement of salaries of employ-
ees paid at an annual rate;
(B) the payment of telecommunications
provided by the Office of the Sergeant at
Arms and Doorkeeper;
(C) the payment of stationery supplies pur-
chased through the Keeper of the Stationery;
(D) payments to the Postmaster of the
Senate;
(E) the payment of metered charges on
copying equipment provided by the Office of
the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper;
(F) the payment of Senate Recording and
Photographic Services; or
(G) the payment of franked and mass mail
costs by the Sergeant at Arms and Door-
keeper.
(b) AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.—There are au-
thorized to be paid from the appropriations
account for ‘‘Expenses of Inquiries and Inves-
tigations’’ of the Senate such sums as may
be necessary for agency contributions re-
lated to the compensation of employees of
the committee—
(1) for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019;
(2) for the period October 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2020; and
(3) for the period October 1, 2020 through
February 28, 2021.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00108 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.044 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1139
February 7, 2019
SENATE RESOLUTION 55—AUTHOR-
IZING EXPENDITURES BY THE
COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AF-
FAIRS
Mr. ISAKSON submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; from the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Rules and
Administration:
S. RES. 55
Resolved,
SECTION 1. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
In carrying out its powers, duties, and
functions under the Standing Rules of the
Senate, in accordance with its jurisdiction
under rule XXV of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, including holding hearings, report-
ing such hearings, and making investiga-
tions as authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of
rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs (in
this resolution referred to as the ‘‘com-
mittee’’) is authorized from March 1, 2019
through February 28, 2021, in its discretion,
to—
(1) make expenditures from the contingent
fund of the Senate;
(2) employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
use on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable
basis the services of personnel of any such
department or agency.
SEC. 2. EXPENSES.
(a) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this resolution
shall not exceed $1,633,522, of which
amount—
(1) not to exceed $4,100 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $16,500 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(b) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this resolution shall not exceed
$2,800,323, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $7,000 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $28,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this resolution shall not exceed
$1,166,801, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $3,000 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $11,700 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 3. EXPENSES AND AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) EXPENSES OF THE COMMITTEE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), expenses of the committee
under this resolution shall be paid from the
contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers
approved by the chairman of the committee.
(2) VOUCHERS NOT REQUIRED.—Vouchers
shall not be required for—
(A) the disbursement of salaries of employ-
ees paid at an annual rate;
(B) the payment of telecommunications
provided by the Office of the Sergeant at
Arms and Doorkeeper;
(C) the payment of stationery supplies pur-
chased through the Keeper of the Stationery;
(D) payments to the Postmaster of the
Senate;
(E) the payment of metered charges on
copying equipment provided by the Office of
the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper;
(F) the payment of Senate Recording and
Photographic Services; or
(G) the payment of franked and mass mail
costs by the Sergeant at Arms and Door-
keeper.
(b) AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.—There are au-
thorized to be paid from the appropriations
account for ‘‘Expenses of Inquiries and Inves-
tigations’’ of the Senate such sums as may
be necessary for agency contributions re-
lated to the compensation of employees of
the committee—
(1) for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019;
(2) for the period October 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2020; and
(3) for the period October 1, 2020 through
February 28, 2021.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 56—AUTHOR-
IZING EXPENDITURES BY THE
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELA-
TIONS
Mr. RISCH submitted the following
resolution; from the Committee on
Foreign Relations; which was referred
to the Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration:
S. RES. 56
Resolved,
SECTION 1. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
In carrying out its powers, duties, and
functions under the Standing Rules of the
Senate, in accordance with its jurisdiction
under rule XXV of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, including holding hearings, report-
ing such hearings, and making investiga-
tions as authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of
rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the Committee on Foreign Relations (in
this resolution referred to as the ‘‘com-
mittee’’) is authorized from March 1, 2019
through February 28, 2021, in its discretion,
to—
(1) make expenditures from the contingent
fund of the Senate;
(2) employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
use on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable
basis the services of personnel of any such
department or agency.
SEC. 2. EXPENSES.
(a) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this resolution
shall not exceed $4,224,651, of which
amount—
(1) not to exceed $150,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(b) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this resolution shall not exceed
$7,242,259, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $150,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this resolution shall not exceed
$3,017,608, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $150,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 3. EXPENSES AND AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) EXPENSES OF THE COMMITTEE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), expenses of the committee
under this resolution shall be paid from the
contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers
approved by the chairman of the committee.
(2) VOUCHERS NOT REQUIRED.—Vouchers
shall not be required for—
(A) the disbursement of salaries of employ-
ees paid at an annual rate;
(B) the payment of telecommunications
provided by the Office of the Sergeant at
Arms and Doorkeeper;
(C) the payment of stationery supplies pur-
chased through the Keeper of the Stationery;
(D) payments to the Postmaster of the
Senate;
(E) the payment of metered charges on
copying equipment provided by the Office of
the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper;
(F) the payment of Senate Recording and
Photographic Services; or
(G) the payment of franked and mass mail
costs by the Sergeant at Arms and Door-
keeper.
(b) AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.—There are au-
thorized to be paid from the appropriations
account for ‘‘Expenses of Inquiries and Inves-
tigations’’ of the Senate such sums as may
be necessary for agency contributions re-
lated to the compensation of employees of
the committee—
(1) for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019;
(2) for the period October 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2020; and
(3) for the period October 1, 2020 through
February 28, 2021.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 57—AUTHOR-
IZING EXPENDITURES BY THE
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
Mr. GRAHAM submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; from the Committee
on the Judiciary; which was referred to
the Committee on Rules and Adminis-
tration:
S. RES. 57
Resolved,
SECTION 1. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
In carrying out its powers, duties, and
functions under the Standing Rules of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00109 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.046 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1140 February 7, 2019
Senate, in accordance with its jurisdiction
under rule XXV of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, including holding hearings, report-
ing such hearings, and making investiga-
tions as authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of
rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the Committee on the Judiciary (in this
resolution referred to as the ‘‘committee’’) is
authorized from March 1, 2019 through Feb-
ruary 28, 2021, in its discretion, to—
(1) make expenditures from the contingent
fund of the Senate;
(2) employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
use on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable
basis the services of personnel of any such
department or agency.
SEC. 2. EXPENSES.
(a) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this resolution
shall not exceed $6,280,596, of which
amount—
(1) not to exceed $116,667 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $11,667 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(b) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this resolution shall not exceed
$10,766,736, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $200,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this resolution shall not exceed
$4,486,140, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $83,333 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $8,333 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of the
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 3. EXPENSES AND AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) EXPENSES OF THE COMMITTEE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), expenses of the committee
under this resolution shall be paid from the
contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers
approved by the chairman of the committee.
(2) VOUCHERS NOT REQUIRED.—Vouchers
shall not be required for—
(A) the disbursement of salaries of employ-
ees paid at an annual rate;
(B) the payment of telecommunications
provided by the Office of the Sergeant at
Arms and Doorkeeper;
(C) the payment of stationery supplies pur-
chased through the Keeper of the Stationery;
(D) payments to the Postmaster of the
Senate;
(E) the payment of metered charges on
copying equipment provided by the Office of
the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper;
(F) the payment of Senate Recording and
Photographic Services; or
(G) the payment of franked and mass mail
costs by the Sergeant at Arms and Door-
keeper.
(b) AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.—There are au-
thorized to be paid from the appropriations
account for ‘‘Expenses of Inquiries and Inves-
tigations’’ of the Senate such sums as may
be necessary for agency contributions re-
lated to the compensation of employees of
the committee—
(1) for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019;
(2) for the period October 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2020; and
(3) for the period October 1, 2020 through
February 28, 2021.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 58—AUTHOR-
IZING EXPENDITURES BY THE
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING
Ms. COLLINS submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; from the Special
Committee on Aging; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Rules and
Administration:
S. RES. 58
Resolved,
SECTION 1. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
In carrying out its powers, duties, and
functions imposed by section 104 of S. Res. 4,
agreed to February 4, 1977 (95th Congress),
and in exercising the authority conferred on
it by such section, the Special Committee on
Aging (in this resolution referred to as the
‘‘committee’’) is authorized from March 1,
2019 through February 28, 2021, in its discre-
tion, to—
(1) make expenditures from the contingent
fund of the Senate;
(2) employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
use on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable
basis the services of personnel of any such
department or agency.
SEC. 2. EXPENSES.
(a) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this resolution
shall not exceed $1,516,667, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $1,500 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $3,000 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of the
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
(b) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this resolution shall not exceed
$2,600,000, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $3,000 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $3,000 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of the
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this resolution shall not exceed
$1,083,333, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $1,250 may be expended for
the procurement of the services of individual
consultants, or organizations thereof (as au-
thorized by section 202(i) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4301(i)));
and
(2) not to exceed $1,500 may be expended for
the training of the professional staff of the
committee (under procedures specified by
section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 3. EXPENSES AND AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) EXPENSES OF THE COMMITTEE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), expenses of the committee
under this resolution shall be paid from the
contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers
approved by the chairman of the committee.
(2) VOUCHERS NOT REQUIRED.—Vouchers
shall not be required for—
(A) the disbursement of salaries of employ-
ees paid at an annual rate;
(B) the payment of telecommunications
provided by the Office of the Sergeant at
Arms and Doorkeeper;
(C) the payment of stationery supplies pur-
chased through the Keeper of the Stationery;
(D) payments to the Postmaster of the
Senate;
(E) the payment of metered charges on
copying equipment provided by the Office of
the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper;
(F) the payment of Senate Recording and
Photographic Services; or
(G) the payment of franked and mass mail
costs by the Sergeant at Arms and Door-
keeper.
(b) AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.—There are au-
thorized to be paid from the appropriations
account for ‘‘Expenses of Inquiries and Inves-
tigations’’ of the Senate such sums as may
be necessary for agency contributions re-
lated to the compensation of employees of
the committee—
(1) for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019;
(2) for the period October 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2020; and
(3) for the period October 1, 2020 through
February 28, 2021.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 59—RECOG-
NIZING THE DUTY OF THE FED-
ERAL GOVERNMENT TO CREATE
A GREEN NEW DEAL
Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. SANDERS, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. WARREN, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. BOOKER, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mr.
MURPHY) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public
Works:
S. RES. 59
Whereas the October 2018 report entitled
‘‘Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5 C’’
by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change and the November 2018 Fourth Na-
tional Climate Assessment report found
that—
(1) human activity is the dominant cause
of observed climate change over the past
century;
(2) a changing climate is causing sea levels
to rise and an increase in wildfires, severe
storms, droughts, and other extreme weather
events that threaten human life, healthy
communities, and critical infrastructure;
(3) global warming at or above 2 degrees
Celsius beyond pre-industrialized levels will
cause—
(A) mass migration from the regions
most affected by climate change;
(B) more than $500,000,000,000 in lost an-
nual economic output in the United States
by the year 2100;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00110 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.048 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1141
February 7, 2019
(C) wildfires that, by 2050, will annually
burn at least twice as much forest area in
the western United States than was typi-
cally burned by wildfires in the years pre-
ceding 2019;
(D) a loss of more than 99 percent of all
coral reefs on Earth;
(E) more than 350,000,000 more people to
be exposed globally to deadly heat stress
by 2050; and
(F) a risk of damage to $1,000,000,000,000
of public infrastructure and coastal real es-
tate in the United States; and
(4) global temperatures must be kept below
1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrialized
levels to avoid the most severe impacts of a
changing climate, which will require—
(A) global reductions in greenhouse gas
emissions from human sources of 40 to 60
percent from 2010 levels by 2030; and
(B) net-zero global emissions by 2050;
Whereas, because the United States has
historically been responsible for a dispropor-
tionate amount of greenhouse gas emissions,
having emitted 20 percent of global green-
house gas emissions through 2014, and has a
high technological capacity, the United
States must take a leading role in reducing
emissions through economic transformation;
Whereas the United States is currently ex-
periencing several related crises, with—
(1) life expectancy declining while basic
needs, such as clean air, clean water, healthy
food, and adequate health care, housing,
transportation, and education, are inacces-
sible to a significant portion of the United
States population;
(2) a 4-decade trend of wage stagnation,
deindustrialization, and anti-labor policies
that has led to—
(A) hourly wages overall stagnating since
the 1970s despite increased worker produc-
tivity;
(B) the third-worst level of socio-
economic mobility in the developed world
before the Great Recession;
(C) the erosion of the earning and bar-
gaining power of workers in the United
States; and
(D) inadequate resources for public sec-
tor workers to confront the challenges of
climate change at local, State, and Federal
levels; and
(3) the greatest income inequality since
the 1920s, with—
(A) the top 1 percent of earners accruing
91 percent of gains in the first few years of
economic recovery after the Great Reces-
sion;
(B) a large racial wealth divide amount-
ing to a difference of 20 times more wealth
between the average white family and the
average black family; and
(C) a gender earnings gap that results in
women earning approximately 80 percent
as much as men, at the median;
Whereas climate change, pollution, and en-
vironmental destruction have exacerbated
systemic racial, regional, social, environ-
mental, and economic injustices (referred to
in this preamble as ‘‘systemic injustices’’) by
disproportionately affecting indigenous peo-
ples, communities of color, migrant commu-
nities, deindustrialized communities, de-
populated rural communities, the poor, low-
income workers, women, the elderly, the
unhoused, people with disabilities, and youth
(referred to in this preamble as ‘‘frontline
and vulnerable communities’’);
Whereas, climate change constitutes a di-
rect threat to the national security of the
United States—
(1) by impacting the economic, environ-
mental, and social stability of countries and
communities around the world; and
(2) by acting as a threat multiplier;
Whereas the Federal Government-led mo-
bilizations during World War II and the New
Deal created the greatest middle class that
the United States has ever seen, but many
members of frontline and vulnerable commu-
nities were excluded from many of the eco-
nomic and societal benefits of those mobili-
zations; and
Whereas the Senate recognizes that a new
national, social, industrial, and economic
mobilization on a scale not seen since World
War II and the New Deal era is a historic op-
portunity—
(1) to create millions of good, high-wage
jobs in the United States;
(2) to provide unprecedented levels of pros-
perity and economic security for all people
of the United States; and
(3) to counteract systemic injustices: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that—
(1) it is the duty of the Federal Govern-
ment to create a Green New Deal—
(A) to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas
emissions through a fair and just transition
for all communities and workers;
(B) to create millions of good, high-wage
jobs and ensure prosperity and economic se-
curity for all people of the United States;
(C) to invest in the infrastructure and in-
dustry of the United States to sustainably
meet the challenges of the 21st century;
(D) to secure for all people of the United
States for generations to come—
(i) clean air and water;
(ii) climate and community resiliency;
(iii) healthy food;
(iv) access to nature; and
(v) a sustainable environment; and
(E) to promote justice and equity by stop-
ping current, preventing future, and repair-
ing historic oppression of indigenous peoples,
communities of color, migrant communities,
deindustrialized communities, depopulated
rural communities, the poor, low-income
workers, women, the elderly, the unhoused,
people with disabilities, and youth (referred
to in this resolution as ‘‘frontline and vul-
nerable communities’’);
(2) the goals described in subparagraphs (A)
through (E) of paragraph (1) (referred to in
this resolution as the ‘‘Green New Deal
goals’’) should be accomplished through a 10-
year national mobilization (referred to in
this resolution as the ‘‘Green New Deal mo-
bilization’’) that will require the following
goals and projects—
(A) building resiliency against climate
change-related disasters, such as extreme
weather, including by leveraging funding and
providing investments for community-de-
fined projects and strategies;
(B) repairing and upgrading the infrastruc-
ture in the United States, including—
(i) by eliminating pollution and green-
house gas emissions as much as techno-
logically feasible;
(ii) by guaranteeing universal access to
clean water;
(iii) by reducing the risks posed by climate
impacts; and
(iv) by ensuring that any infrastructure
bill considered by Congress addresses cli-
mate change;
(C) meeting 100 percent of the power de-
mand in the United States through clean, re-
newable, and zero-emission energy sources,
including—
(i) by dramatically expanding and upgrad-
ing renewable power sources; and
(ii) by deploying new capacity;
(D) building or upgrading to energy-effi-
cient, distributed, and ‘‘smart’’ power grids,
and ensuring affordable access to electricity;
(E) upgrading all existing buildings in the
United States and building new buildings to
achieve maximum energy efficiency, water
efficiency, safety, affordability, comfort, and
durability, including through electrification;
(F) spurring massive growth in clean man-
ufacturing in the United States and remov-
ing pollution and greenhouse gas emissions
from manufacturing and industry as much as
is technologically feasible, including by ex-
panding renewable energy manufacturing
and investing in existing manufacturing and
industry;
(G) working collaboratively with farmers
and ranchers in the United States to remove
pollution and greenhouse gas emissions from
the agricultural sector as much as is techno-
logically feasible, including—
(i) by supporting family farming;
(ii) by investing in sustainable farming and
land use practices that increase soil health;
and
(iii) by building a more sustainable food
system that ensures universal access to
healthy food;
(H) overhauling transportation systems in
the United States to remove pollution and
greenhouse gas emissions from the transpor-
tation sector as much as is technologically
feasible, including through investment in—
(i) zero-emission vehicle infrastructure and
manufacturing;
(ii) clean, affordable, and accessible public
transit; and
(iii) high-speed rail;
(I) mitigating and managing the long-term
adverse health, economic, and other effects
of pollution and climate change, including
by providing funding for community-defined
projects and strategies;
(J) removing greenhouse gases from the at-
mosphere and reducing pollution by restor-
ing natural ecosystems through proven low-
tech solutions that increase soil carbon stor-
age, such as land preservation and
afforestation;
(K) restoring and protecting threatened,
endangered, and fragile ecosystems through
locally appropriate and science-based
projects that enhance biodiversity and sup-
port climate resiliency;
(L) cleaning up existing hazardous waste
and abandoned sites, ensuring economic de-
velopment and sustainability on those sites;
(M) identifying other emission and pollu-
tion sources and creating solutions to re-
move them; and
(N) promoting the international exchange
of technology, expertise, products, funding,
and services, with the aim of making the
United States the international leader on
climate action, and to help other countries
achieve a Green New Deal;
(3) a Green New Deal must be developed
through transparent and inclusive consulta-
tion, collaboration, and partnership with
frontline and vulnerable communities, labor
unions, worker cooperatives, civil society
groups, academia, and businesses; and
(4) to achieve the Green New Deal goals
and mobilization, a Green New Deal will re-
quire the following goals and projects—
(A) providing and leveraging, in a way that
ensures that the public receives appropriate
ownership stakes and returns on investment,
adequate capital (including through commu-
nity grants, public banks, and other public
financing), technical expertise, supporting
policies, and other forms of assistance to
communities, organizations, Federal, State,
and local government agencies, and busi-
nesses working on the Green New Deal mobi-
lization;
(B) ensuring that the Federal Government
takes into account the complete environ-
mental and social costs and impacts of emis-
sions through—
(i) existing laws;
(ii) new policies and programs; and
(iii) ensuring that frontline and vulnerable
communities shall not be adversely affected;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00111 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.050 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1142 February 7, 2019
(C) providing resources, training, and high-
quality education, including higher edu-
cation, to all people of the United States,
with a focus on frontline and vulnerable
communities, so that all people of the United
States may be full and equal participants in
the Green New Deal mobilization;
(D) making public investments in the re-
search and development of new clean and re-
newable energy technologies and industries;
(E) directing investments to spur economic
development, deepen and diversify industry
and business in local and regional economies,
and build wealth and community ownership,
while prioritizing high-quality job creation
and economic, social, and environmental
benefits in frontline and vulnerable commu-
nities, and deindustrialized communities,
that may otherwise struggle with the transi-
tion away from greenhouse gas intensive in-
dustries;
(F) ensuring the use of democratic and
participatory processes that are inclusive of
and led by frontline and vulnerable commu-
nities and workers to plan, implement, and
administer the Green New Deal mobilization
at the local level;
(G) ensuring that the Green New Deal mo-
bilization creates high-quality union jobs
that pay prevailing wages, hires local work-
ers, offers training and advancement oppor-
tunities, and guarantees wage and benefit
parity for workers affected by the transition;
(H) guaranteeing a job with a family-sus-
taining wage, adequate family and medical
leave, paid vacations, and retirement secu-
rity to all people of the United States;
(I) strengthening and protecting the right
of all workers to organize, unionize, and col-
lectively bargain free of coercion, intimida-
tion, and harassment;
(J) strengthening and enforcing labor,
workplace health and safety, antidiscrimina-
tion, and wage and hour standards across all
employers, industries, and sectors;
(K) enacting and enforcing trade rules, pro-
curement standards, and border adjustments
with strong labor and environmental protec-
tions—
(i) to stop the transfer of jobs and pollu-
tion overseas; and
(ii) to grow domestic manufacturing in the
United States;
(L) ensuring that public lands, waters, and
oceans are protected and that eminent do-
main is not abused;
(M) obtaining the free, prior, and informed
consent of indigenous peoples for all deci-
sions that affect indigenous peoples and
their traditional territories, honoring all
treaties and agreements with indigenous
peoples, and protecting and enforcing the
sovereignty and land rights of indigenous
peoples;
(N) ensuring a commercial environment
where every businessperson is free from un-
fair competition and domination by domes-
tic or international monopolies; and
(O) providing all people of the United
States with—
(i) high-quality health care;
(ii) affordable, safe, and adequate housing;
(iii) economic security; and
(iv) clean water, clean air, healthy and af-
fordable food, and access to nature.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 60—AUTHOR-
IZING EXPENDITURES BY THE
COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET
Mr. ENZI submitted the following
resolution; from the Committee on the
Budget; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration:
S. RES. 60
Resolved,
SECTION 1. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
In carrying out its powers, duties, and
functions under the Standing Rules of the
Senate, in accordance with its jurisdiction
under rule XXV of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, including holding hearings, report-
ing such hearings, and making investiga-
tions as authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 of
rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the Committee on the Budget (in this
resolution referred to as the ‘‘committee’’) is
authorized from March 1, 2019 through Feb-
ruary 28, 2021, in its discretion, to—
(1) make expenditures from the contingent
fund of the Senate;
(2) employ personnel; and
(3) with the prior consent of the Govern-
ment department or agency concerned and
the Committee on Rules and Administration,
use on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable
basis the services of personnel of any such
department or agency.
SEC. 2. EXPENSES.
(a) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING SEP-
TEMBER 30, 2019.—The expenses of the com-
mittee for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019 under this resolution
shall not exceed $3,534,372, of which
amount—
(1) not to exceed $15,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $18,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(b) EXPENSES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 PE-
RIOD.—The expenses of the committee for the
period October 1, 2019 through September 30,
2020 under this resolution shall not exceed
$6,058,924, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $40,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $30,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
(c) EXPENSES FOR PERIOD ENDING FEBRUARY
28, 2021.—The expenses of the committee for
the period October 1, 2020 through February
28, 2021 under this resolution shall not exceed
$2,524,552, of which amount—
(1) not to exceed $10,000 may be expended
for the procurement of the services of indi-
vidual consultants, or organizations thereof
(as authorized by section 202(i) of the Legis-
lative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C.
4301(i))); and
(2) not to exceed $10,000 may be expended
for the training of the professional staff of
the committee (under procedures specified
by section 202(j) of that Act).
SEC. 3. EXPENSES AND AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.
(a) EXPENSES OF THE COMMITTEE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), expenses of the committee
under this resolution shall be paid from the
contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers
approved by the chairman of the committee.
(2) VOUCHERS NOT REQUIRED.—Vouchers
shall not be required for—
(A) the disbursement of salaries of employ-
ees paid at an annual rate;
(B) the payment of telecommunications
provided by the Office of the Sergeant at
Arms and Doorkeeper;
(C) the payment of stationery supplies pur-
chased through the Keeper of the Stationery;
(D) payments to the Postmaster of the
Senate;
(E) the payment of metered charges on
copying equipment provided by the Office of
the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper;
(F) the payment of Senate Recording and
Photographic Services; or
(G) the payment of franked and mass mail
costs by the Sergeant at Arms and Door-
keeper.
(b) AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.—There are au-
thorized to be paid from the appropriations
account for ‘‘Expenses of Inquiries and Inves-
tigations’’ of the Senate such sums as may
be necessary for agency contributions re-
lated to the compensation of employees of
the committee—
(1) for the period March 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2019;
(2) for the period October 1, 2019 through
September 30, 2020; and
(3) for the period October 1, 2020 through
February 28, 2021.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 61—HON-
ORING THE LIFE OF ROSEMARY
MARINER
Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself and
Mr. ALEXANDER) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 61
Whereas, on April 2, 1953, Rosemary Ann
Bryant was born to Captain Cecil Bryant and
Constance Boylan Bryant in Harlingen,
Texas;
Whereas, as a teenager, Rosemary washed
planes at a local airport to earn money for
flying lessons;
Whereas Rosemary was the first woman to
enroll in the aeronautics program at Purdue
University;
Whereas, following graduation from Pur-
due University, Rosemary Bryant Mariner
joined the United States Navy;
Whereas, on graduation from officer can-
didate school, Rosemary Mariner was chosen
for the first female flight training class in
the history of the Navy;
Whereas, in 1974, Captain Mariner was
among 6 of the graduates of the first female
flight training class to earn wings, and, the
next year, Captain Mariner became the first
female aviator in the Navy to fly a jet at-
tack aircraft;
Whereas, during her Navy career, Captain
Mariner logged 17 landings on aircraft car-
riers and more than 3,500 flight hours in 15
different aircraft;
Whereas, in 1990, Captain Mariner was
named commander of a Navy tactical elec-
tronic warfare squadron at Naval Air Station
Point Mugu, a unit that was 30% female,
making Captain Mariner the first woman to
command an operational air squadron, even
though women were still barred from flying
combat missions;
Whereas Captain Mariner later said that,
during her time as commander and in other
Navy positions, she learned: ‘‘If [women]
cannot share the equal risks and hazards in
arduous duty, then you are not equal’’;
Whereas Captain Mariner fought tirelessly
for the equality of women in the military—
(1) by leading the Women Military Avi-
ators organization; and
(2) by working with members of Congress
and a Defense Department advisory board to
overturn laws and regulations barring
women from combat;
Whereas Captain Mariner stated, ‘‘if we
thought something was unfair—they
wouldn’t let a woman land on a ship, for ex-
ample—we would write a letter up the chain
of command and put it on the record that we
wanted that changed’’;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00112 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.050 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1143
February 7, 2019
Whereas, in April 1993, Defense Secretary
Les Aspin lifted the restrictions on female
pilots flying combat missions;
Whereas, on retirement from Navy service
in 1997, Captain Mariner moved to Norris,
Tennessee, with—
(1) her husband, Commander Tommy Mar-
iner; and
(2) their daughter, Emmalee;
Whereas, for more than 20 years, Captain
Mariner was a resident scholar of military
history at the Center for the Study of War
and Society at the University of Tennessee
in Knoxville, Tennessee;
Whereas, as a resident scholar at the Cen-
ter for the Study of War and Society, Cap-
tain Mariner shaped the minds and outlooks
of countless undergraduate students, in
whom her legacy will live for generations to
come;
Whereas Rosemary Mariner passed away
on January 24, 2019, in Knoxville, Tennessee,
at the age of 65;
Whereas Rosemary Mariner was honored as
‘‘one of the nation’s leading advocates for
equal opportunity in the military’’ by Debo-
rah G. Douglas in ‘‘American Women and
Flight since 1940’’;
Whereas, in tribute to Captain Mariner,
the United States Navy conducted its first
all-female flyover at the funeral service for
Captain Mariner on Saturday, February 2,
2019, in Maynardville, Tennessee; and
Whereas Rosemary Mariner is an American
hero who exemplified strength, sacrifice, and
service to the United States: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) extends its heartfelt sympathies to the
family of Rosemary Mariner;
(2) honors the life of Captain Mariner;
(3) honors and, on behalf of the United
States, expresses deep appreciation for the
outstanding and important service of Cap-
tain Mariner to the United States; and
(4) respectfully requests that the Secretary
of the Senate communicate this resolution
to the House of Representatives and trans-
mit an enrolled copy of this resolution to the
family of Rosemary Mariner.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 158. Mr. GRASSLEY (for Mr. LANKFORD
(for himself, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. CORNYN, and
Mr. RUBIO)) proposed an amendment to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) to the
bill S. 47, to provide for the management of
the natural resources of the United States,
and for other purposes.
SA 159. Ms. MCSALLY (for herself and Ms.
SINEMA) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 111 pro-
posed by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, supra; which was
ordered to lie on the table.
SA 160. Ms. MCSALLY (for herself, Mr.
UDALL, Mr. ALEXANDER, Ms. SINEMA, and Mr.
BENNET) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 111 pro-
posed by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, supra; which was
ordered to lie on the table.
SA 161. Mr. LEE submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
111 proposed by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself
and Mr. MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 162. Mr. LEE proposed an amendment
to amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) to the
bill S. 47, supra.
SA 163. Mr. INHOFE submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 proposed by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for her-
self and Mr. MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 164. Mr. WHITEHOUSE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) to the
bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 165. Mr. WHITEHOUSE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) to the
bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 166. Mr. WICKER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 proposed by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for her-
self and Mr. MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 167. Mr. PERDUE (for himself, Mr.
ISAKSON, Mr. JONES, and Mr. SCOTT, of South
Carolina) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 168. Mr. PAUL submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 proposed by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for her-
self and Mr. MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 169. Mr. PAUL submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 111 proposed by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for her-
self and Mr. MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 170. Ms. MCSALLY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI (for herself and Mr. MANCHIN) to the
bill S. 47, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 158. Mr. GRASSLEY (for Mr.
LANKFORD (for himself, Mr. INHOFE, Mr.
CORNYN, and Mr. RUBIO)) proposed an
amendment to amendment SA 111 pro-
posed by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself
and Mr. MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to
provide for the management of the nat-
ural resources of the United States,
and for other purposes; as follows:
Beginning on page 468, strike line 1 and all
that follows through page 469, line 18 and in-
sert the following:
‘‘(1) not less than 40 percent shall be used
for Federal purposes;
‘‘(2) not less than 40 percent shall be used
to provide financial assistance to States; and
‘‘(3) not less than 5 percent shall be used
for deferred maintenance needs on Federal
land.’’.
(c) PARITY FOR TERRITORIES AND THE DIS-
TRICT OF COLUMBIA.—Section 200305(b) of title
54, United States Code, is amended by strik-
ing paragraph (5).
(d) RECREATIONAL PUBLIC ACCESS.—Section
200306 of title 54, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c) RECREATIONAL PUBLIC ACCESS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Of the amounts made
available for expenditure in any fiscal year
under section 200303, there shall be made
available for recreational public access
projects identified on the priority list devel-
oped under paragraph (2) not less than the
greater of—
‘‘(A) an amount equal to 3 percent of those
amounts; or
‘‘(B) $15,000,000.
‘‘(2) PRIORITY LIST.—The Secretary and the
Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation
with the head of each affected Federal agen-
cy, shall annually develop a priority list for
projects that, through acquisition of land (or
an interest in land), secure recreational pub-
lic access to Federal land under the jurisdic-
tion of the applicable Secretary for hunting,
fishing, recreational shooting, or other out-
door recreational purposes.’’.
(e) ACQUISITION CONSIDERATIONS.—Section
200306 of title 54, United States Code (as
amended by subsection (d)), is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) ACQUISITION CONSIDERATIONS.—In de-
termining whether to acquire land (or an in-
terest in land) under this section, the Sec-
retary and the Secretary of Agriculture shall
take into account—
‘‘(1) the significance of the acquisition;
‘‘(2) the urgency of the acquisition;
‘‘(3) management efficiencies;
‘‘(4) management cost savings;
‘‘(5) geographic distribution;
‘‘(6) threats to the integrity of the land;
and
‘‘(7) the recreational value of the land.’’.
(f) CERTAIN LAND ACQUISITION REQUIRE-
MENTS.—Section 200306 of title 54, United
States Code (as amended by subsection (e)),
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(e) MAINTENANCE NEEDS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (3),
funds appropriated for the acquisition of
land under this section shall include any
funds necessary to address maintenance
needs at the time of acquisition on the ac-
quired land.
‘‘(2) ACCEPTANCE OF DONATIONS.—A Federal
agency may accept, hold, administer, and
use donations to address maintenance needs
on land acquired under this section.
‘‘(3) LIMITATION.—If a Federal agency ac-
cepts a donation under paragraph (2) to ad-
dress maintenance needs on land acquired
under this section, the funds appropriated
for the acquisition under paragraph (1) shall
not include funds equivalent to the amount
of that donation.’’.
SA 159. Ms. MCSALLY (for herself
and Ms. SINEMA) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title IX, add the following:
SEC. 90llll. RELEASE OF FEDERAL REVER-
SIONARY INTEREST, FLAGSTAFF, AR-
IZONA.
Any land (including the parcel of land lo-
cated in the City of Flagstaff, Arizona,
owned by Win Oil Company, Inc., and more
particularly described in the deed recorded
in Coconino County, Arizona, on November
11, 1998, as document number 98–44431) that is
subject to a Federal reversionary interest
pursuant to the Act of July 27, 1866 (14 Stat.
292, chapter 278), shall no longer be subject
to the Federal reversionary interest de-
scribed in that Act.
SA 160. Ms. MCSALLY (for herself,
Mr. UDALL, Mr. ALEXANDER, Ms.
SINEMA, and Mr. BENNET) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike section 9003 and insert the fol-
lowing:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:55 May 07, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00113 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\FEBRUARY\S07FE9.REC S07FE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1144 February 7, 2019
SEC. 9003. JOHN S. MCCAIN III 21ST CENTURY
CONSERVATION SERVICE CORPS
ACT.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘John S. McCain III 21st Cen-
tury Conservation Service Corps Act’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—Section 203 of the Public
Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1722) is
amended—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘under sec-
tion 204’’ and inserting ‘‘by section 204(a)(1)’’;
(2) by redesignating paragraphs (8) through
(13) as paragraphs (9) through (14), respec-
tively;
(3) by inserting after paragraph (7) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(8) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘institution of
higher education’ has the meaning given the
term in section 102 of the Higher Education
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002).
‘‘(B) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘institution of
higher education’ does not include—
‘‘(i) an institution described in section
101(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1001(b)); or
‘‘(ii) an institution outside the United
States, as described in section 102(a)(1)(C) of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1002(a)(1)(C)).’’;
(4) in paragraph (9) (as so redesignated)—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘, as follows’’ and inserting
‘‘and other conservation and restoration ini-
tiatives, as follows’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(E) To protect, restore, or enhance ma-
rine, estuarine, riverine, and coastal habitat
ecosystem components—
‘‘(i) to promote the recovery of threatened
species, endangered species, and managed
fisheries;
‘‘(ii) to restore fisheries, protected re-
sources, and habitats impacted by oil and
chemical spills and natural disasters; or
‘‘(iii) to enhance the resilience of coastal
ecosystems, communities, and economies
through habitat conservation.’’;
(5) in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (11)
(as so redesignated), by striking ‘‘individuals
between the ages of 16 and 30, inclusive,’’ and
inserting ‘‘individuals between the ages of 16
and 30, inclusive, or veterans age 35 or
younger’’;
(6) in paragraph (13) (as so redesignated)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) with respect to the National Marine
Sanctuary System, coral reefs, and other
coastal, estuarine, and marine habitats, and
other land and facilities administered by the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration, the Secretary of Commerce.’’; and
(7) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(15) VETERAN.—The term ‘veteran’ has the
meaning given the term in section 101 of
title 38, United States Code.’’.
(c) PUBLIC LANDS CORPS PROGRAM.—Sec-
tion 204 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993
(16 U.S.C. 1723) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PUBLIC LANDS
CORPS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established in
the Department of the Interior, the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and the Department of
Commerce a corps, to be known as the ‘Pub-
lic Lands Corps’.
‘‘(2) NO EFFECT ON OTHER AGENCIES.—Noth-
ing in this subsection precludes the estab-
lishment of a public lands corps by the head
of a Federal department or agency other
than a department described in paragraph
(1), in accordance with this Act.’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘indi-
viduals between the ages of 16 and 30, inclu-
sive,’’ and inserting ‘‘individuals between the
ages of 16 and 30, inclusive, and veterans age
35 or younger’’; and
(B) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘section 137(b) of the National and Commu-
nity Service Act of 1990’’ and inserting
‘‘paragraphs (1), (2), (4), and (5) of section
137(a) of the National and Community Serv-
ice Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12591(a))’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(g) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section au-
thorizes the use of the Public Lands Corps
for projects on or impacting real property
owned by, operated by, or within the cus-
tody, control, or administrative jurisdiction
of the Administrator of General Services
without the express permission of the Ad-
ministrator of General Services.’’.
(d) TRANSPORTATION.—Section 205 of the
Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C.
1724) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(e) TRANSPORTATION.—The Secretary may
provide to Corps participants who reside in
their own homes transportation to and from
appropriate conservation project sites.’’.
(e) RESOURCE ASSISTANTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 206(a) of the Pub-
lic Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1725(a))
is amended by striking the first sentence and
inserting the following: ‘‘The Secretary may
provide individual placements of resource as-
sistants to carry out research or resource
protection activities on behalf of the Sec-
retary.’’.
(2) DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY.—Section 121(a)
of the Department of the Interior, Environ-
ment, and Related Agencies Appropriations
Act, 2012 (16 U.S.C. 1725a), is amended—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) by striking ‘‘Secretary of the Interior’’
and inserting ‘‘Secretary (as defined in sec-
tion 203 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993
(16 U.S.C. 1722))’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘paragraph (1)’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘paragraph (2)’’; and
(iii) by striking ‘‘with a land managing
agency of the Department of the Interior’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ‘‘with a
land managing agency’’ and inserting ‘‘with
the Secretary (as so defined)’’.
(f) COMPENSATION AND EMPLOYMENT STAND-
ARDS.—Section 207 of the Public Lands Corps
Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1726) is amended—
(1) by striking the section heading and in-
serting ‘‘COMPENSATION AND TERMS OF SERV-
ICE’’;
(2) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c)
as subsections (c) and (d), respectively;
(3) by inserting after subsection (a) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(b) EDUCATIONAL CREDIT.—The Secretary
may provide a Corps participant with an edu-
cational credit that may be applied toward a
program of postsecondary education at an
institution of higher education that agrees
to award the credit for participation in the
Corps.’’;
(4) in subsection (c) (as so redesignated)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Each participant’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Each participant’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) INDIAN YOUTH SERVICE CORPS.—With re-
spect to the Indian Youth Service Corps es-
tablished under section 210, the Secretary
shall establish the term of service of partici-
pants in consultation with the affected In-
dian tribe.’’;
(5) in subsection (d) (as so redesignated)—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2)
as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively,
and indenting the subparagraphs appro-
priately;
(B) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A) (as so redesignated), by striking ‘‘The
Secretary’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) TIME-LIMITED APPOINTMENT.—For pur-
poses of section 9602 of title 5, United States
Code, a former member of the Corps hired by
the Secretary under paragraph (1)(B) for a
time-limited appointment shall be consid-
ered to be appointed initially under open,
competitive examination.’’; and
(6) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) APPLICABILITY TO QUALIFIED YOUTH OR
CONSERVATION CORPS.—The hiring and com-
pensation standards described in this section
shall apply to any individual participating in
an appropriate conservation project through
a qualified youth or conservation corps, in-
cluding an individual placed through a con-
tract or cooperative agreement, as approved
by the Secretary.’’.
(g) REPORTING AND DATA COLLECTION.—
Title II of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993
(16 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.) is amended—
(1) by redesignating sections 209 through
211 as sections 211 through 213, respectively;
(2) by inserting after section 208 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 209. REPORTING AND DATA COLLECTION.
‘‘(a) REPORT.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of the John S. McCain
III 21st Century Conservation Service Corps
Act, and annually thereafter, the Chief Exec-
utive Officer of the Corporation for National
and Community Service, in coordination
with the Secretaries, shall submit to Con-
gress a report that includes data on the
Corps, including—
‘‘(1) the number of participants enrolled in
the Corps and the length of the term of serv-
ice for each participant;
‘‘(2) the projects carried out by Corps par-
ticipants, categorized by type of project and
Federal agency;
‘‘(3) the total amount and sources of fund-
ing provided for the service of participants;
‘‘(4) the type of service performed by par-
ticipants and the impact and accomplish-
ments of the service; and
‘‘(5) any other similar data determined to
be appropriate by the Chief Executive Officer
of the Corporation for National and Commu-
nity Service or the Secretaries.
‘‘(b) DATA.—Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of the John S. McCain III
21st Century Conservation Service Corps
Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretaries
shall submit to the Chief Executive Officer
of the Corporation for National and Commu-
nity Service the data described in subsection
(a).
‘‘(c) DATA COLLECTION.—The Chief Execu-
tive Officer of the Corporation for National
and Community Service may coordinate
with qualified youth or conservation corps to
improve the collection of the required data
described in subsection (a).
‘‘(d) COORDINATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretaries shall, to
the maximum extent practicable, coordinate
with each other to carry out activities au-
thorized under this Act, including—
‘‘(A) the data collection and reporting re-
quirements of this section; and
‘‘(B) implementing and issuing guidance on
eligibility for noncompetitive hiring status
under section 207(d).
‘‘(2) DESIGNATION OF COORDINATORS.—The
Secretary shall designate a coordinator to
coordinate and serve as the primary point of
contact for any activity of the Corps carried
out by the Secretary.’’; and
(3) in subsection (c) of section 212 (as so re-
designated), by striking ‘‘211’’ and inserting
‘‘213’’.
(h) INDIAN YOUTH SERVICE CORPS.—Title II
of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00114 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.055 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1145
February 7, 2019
U.S.C. 1721 et seq.) (as amended by sub-
section (g)) is amended by inserting after
section 209 the following:
‘‘SEC. 210. INDIAN YOUTH SERVICE CORPS.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is established
within the Public Lands Corps a program to
be known as the ‘Indian Youth Service
Corps’ that—
‘‘(1) enrolls participants between the ages
of 16 and 30, inclusive, and veterans age 35 or
younger, a majority of whom are Indians;
‘‘(2) is established pursuant to an agree-
ment between an Indian tribe and a qualified
youth or conservation corps for the benefit
of the members of the Indian tribe; and
‘‘(3) carries out appropriate conservation
projects on eligible service land.
‘‘(b) AUTHORIZATION OF COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENTS.—The Secretary may enter into
cooperative agreements with Indian tribes
and qualified youth or conservation corps for
the establishment and administration of the
Indian Youth Service Corps.
‘‘(c) GUIDELINES.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of enactment of the John S.
McCain III 21st Century Conservation Serv-
ice Corps Act, the Secretary of the Interior,
in consultation with Indian tribes, shall
issue guidelines for the management of the
Indian Youth Service Corps, in accordance
with this Act and any other applicable Fed-
eral laws.’’.
SA 161. Mr. LEE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 24llll. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL
MONUMENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 320301 of title 54,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘The
President may, in the President’s discre-
tion’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘After ob-
taining congressional approval of the pro-
posed national monument, certifying compli-
ance with the National Environmental Pol-
icy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) with re-
spect to the proposed national monument,
and receiving from the Governor of each
State in which the proposed national monu-
ment is to be located notice that the State
legislature has enacted legislation approving
the designation of the proposed national
monument, and subject to subsection (e), the
President may’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) REQUIREMENTS FOR DECLARATION OF
MARINE NATIONAL MONUMENTS.—
‘‘(1) DEFINITION OF EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC
ZONE.—In this subsection, the term ‘exclu-
sive economic zone’ means the zone estab-
lished by Proclamation Number 5030, dated
March 10, 1983 (16 U.S.C. 1453 note).
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS.—The President may
not declare any area of the exclusive eco-
nomic zone to be a national monument un-
less—
‘‘(A) the declaration is specifically author-
ized by an Act of Congress;
‘‘(B) the President has certified compliance
with the National Environmental Policy Act
of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) with respect to
the proposed national monument;
‘‘(C) the President has submitted to the
Governor of each State and each territory,
any part of which is located within 100 nau-
tical miles of the proposed national monu-
ment, a proposal to make the declaration;
‘‘(D) the Governor of each State and terri-
tory described in subparagraph (C) submits
to the President notice that the legislature
of the State or territory has approved the
proposal submitted under that paragraph;
and
‘‘(E) the declaration is substantially the
same as the proposal submitted under sub-
paragraph (C).’’.
(b) RESTRICTIONS ON PUBLIC USE.—Section
320303 of title 54, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘The Secretary,’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary,’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(b) RESTRICTIONS ON PUBLIC USE.—The
Secretary, or the Secretary of Commerce,
with respect to any area of the exclusive eco-
nomic zone (as defined in section 320301(e)(1))
designated as a national monument, shall
not implement any restrictions on the public
use of a national monument until the expira-
tion of an appropriate review period (as de-
termined by the Secretary or the Secretary
of Commerce, as applicable) providing for
public input and congressional approval.’’.
SA 162. Mr. LEE proposed an amend-
ment to amendment SA 111 proposed
by Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; as follows:
In section 3001, strike subsection (a) and
insert the following:
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 200302 of title 54,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘September
30, 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘September 30, 2023’’;
and
(2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ‘‘Sep-
tember 30, 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘September
30, 2023’’.
SA 163. Mr. INHOFE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title VII, add the following:
SEC. 70ll. USE OF VALUE OF LAND FOR COST
SHARING.
The Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restora-
tion Act (16 U.S.C. 669 et seq.) is amended—
(1) by redesignating section 13 as section
14; and
(2) by inserting after section 12 the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 13. VALUE OF LAND.
‘‘Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, any institution eligible to receive Fed-
eral funds under the Agricultural Research,
Extension, and Education Reform Act of 1998
(7 U.S.C. 7601 et seq.) shall be allowed to use
the value of any land owned by the institu-
tion as an in-kind match to satisfy any cost
sharing requirement under this Act.’’.
SA 164. Mr. WHITEHOUSE submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title IX, add the following:
SEC. 90ll. APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS FOR THE
NATIONAL OCEANS AND COASTAL
SECURITY FUND.
Section 908 of the National Oceans and
Coastal Security Act (16 U.S.C. 7507) is
amended by striking ‘‘such sums’’ and all
that follows through the period at the end
and inserting ‘‘and there are appropriated to
carry out this title for each fiscal year an
amount equal to the amount deposited for
such fiscal year for the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund pursuant to section
105(a)(2)(B) of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Se-
curity Act of 2006 (43 U.S.C. 1331 note).’’.
SA 165. Mr. WHITEHOUSE submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title IX, add the following:
SEC. 90ll. PERMANENT AUTHORIZATION OF
THE NATIONAL OCEANS AND COAST-
AL SECURITY FUND.
Section 908 of the National Oceans and
Coastal Security Act (16 U.S.C. 7507) is
amended by inserting ‘‘and for each subse-
quent fiscal year’’ after ‘‘2019’’.
SA 166. Mr. WICKER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title IX, add the following:
SEC. 9010. NAMED STORM EVENT MODEL AND
POST-STORM ASSESSMENTS.
(a) AMENDMENTS TO THE OMNIBUS PUBLIC
LAND MANAGEMENT ACT OF 2009.—Section
12312 of the Omnibus Public Land Manage-
ment Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3611) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking the period
at the end and inserting the following: ‘‘, ex-
cept that the term shall not apply with re-
spect to a State or territory that has an
operational wind and flood loss allocation
system.’’;
(B) in paragraph (6), by inserting ‘‘sus-
tained’’ before ‘‘winds’’; and
(C) in paragraph (7), by striking ‘‘that
threaten any portion of a coastal State’’ and
inserting ‘‘for which post-storm assessments
are conducted’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in subparagraph (A)—
(I) by striking ‘‘540 days after the date of
the enactment of the Consumer Option for
an Alternative System to Allocate Losses
Act of 2012’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31,
2019’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘by regulation’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking
‘‘every’’ and inserting ‘‘an’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) PUBLIC REVIEW.—The Administrator
shall seek input and suggestions from the
public before the Named Storm Event Model,
or any modification to the Named Storm
Event Model, takes effect.’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and
(C) as subparagraphs (D) and (E), respec-
tively;
(ii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the
following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00115 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.055 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1146 February 7, 2019
‘‘(B) DATA COLLECTION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Upon identification of a
named storm under subparagraph (A), and
pursuant to the protocol established under
subsection (c), the Administrator may de-
ploy sensors to enhance the collection of
covered data in the areas in coastal States
that the Administrator determines are at
the highest risk of experiencing geophysical
events that would cause indeterminate
losses.
‘‘(ii) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—If the Admin-
istrator takes action under clause (i), that
action may not be construed as indicating
that a post-storm assessment will be devel-
oped for any coastal State in which that ac-
tion is taken.
‘‘(C) IDENTIFICATION OF INDETERMINATE
LOSSES IN COASTAL STATES.—Not later than 30
days after the first date on which sustained
winds of not less than 39 miles per hour are
measured in a coastal State during a named
storm identified under subparagraph (A), the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall notify
the Administrator with respect to the exist-
ence of any indeterminate losses in that
coastal State resulting from that named
storm.’’;
(iii) in subparagraph (D), as so redesig-
nated—
(I) by striking ‘‘identification of a named
storm under subparagraph (A)’’ and inserting
‘‘confirmation of indeterminate losses iden-
tified under subparagraph (C) with respect to
a named storm’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘assessment for such
named storm’’ and inserting ‘‘assessment for
each coastal State that suffered such inde-
terminate losses as a result of the named
storm’’;
(iv) in subparagraph (E), as so redesig-
nated—
(I) by striking ‘‘an identification of a
named storm is made under subparagraph
(A)’’ and inserting ‘‘any indeterminate losses
are identified under subparagraph (C)’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘for such storm under sub-
paragraph (B)’’ and inserting ‘‘under sub-
paragraph (D) for any coastal State that suf-
fered such indeterminate losses’’; and
(v) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(F) SEPARATE POST-STORM ASSESSMENTS
FOR A SINGLE NAMED STORM.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator may
conduct a separate post-storm assessment
for each coastal State in which indetermi-
nate losses are identified under subparagraph
(C).
‘‘(ii) TIMELINE.—If the Administrator con-
ducts a separate post-storm assessment
under clause (i), the Administrator shall
complete the assessment based on the dates
of actions that the Administrator takes
under subparagraphs (C) and (D).’’; and
(3) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘540 days
after the date of the enactment of the Con-
sumer Option for an Alternative System to
Allocate Losses Act of 2012’’ and inserting
‘‘December 31, 2019’’;
(B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘, in the
discretion of the Administrator,’’ after ‘‘of
sensors as may’’; and
(C) in paragraph (4)(B), by inserting ‘‘and
expend’’ after ‘‘receive’’.
(b) AMENDMENTS TO THE NATIONAL FLOOD
INSURANCE ACT OF 1968.—Section 1337 of the
National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42
U.S.C. 4057) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (3), by striking the period
at the end and inserting the following: ‘‘, ex-
cept that the term shall not apply with re-
spect to a State or territory that has an
operational wind and flood loss allocation
system.’’; and
(B) in paragraph (5), by inserting ‘‘sus-
tained’’ after ‘‘maximum’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘establish
by rule’’ and inserting ‘‘publish for comment
in the Federal Register’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting after
‘‘Elevation Certificate’’ the following: ‘‘, or
other data or information used to determine
a property’s current risk of flood, as deter-
mined by the Administrator,’’;
(3) in subsection (c)(3)(A)(i), by striking
‘‘the issuance of the rule establishing the
COASTAL Formula’’ and inserting ‘‘publica-
tion of the COASTAL Formula in the Fed-
eral Register as required by subsection
(b)(1)’’;
(4) in subsection (h)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘that issues a standard
flood insurance policy under the national
flood insurance program’’ after ‘‘company’’;
and
(B) by striking ‘‘or the COASTAL For-
mula’’ and inserting ‘‘, the COASTAL For-
mula, or any other loss allocation or post-
storm assessment arising under the laws or
ordinances of any State’’;
(5) in subsection (i), by striking ‘‘after the
date on which the Administrator issues the
rule establishing the COASTAL Formula
under subsection (b)’’ and inserting ‘‘60 days
after publication of the COASTAL Formula
in the Federal Register as required by sub-
section (b)(1)’’; and
(6) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(k) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to create a
cause of action under this Act.’’.
SA 167. Mr. PERDUE (for himself,
Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. JONES, and Mr. SCOTT
of South Carolina) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 47, to provide for the
management of the natural resources
of the United States, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
At the end, add the following:
TITLE X—ADDITIONAL SUPPLEMENTAL
APPROPRIATIONS FOR DISASTER RE-
LIEF, 2019
The following sums in this title are appro-
priated, out of any money in the Treasury
not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes, namely:
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
PROCESSING, RESEARCH AND MARKETING
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Office of
the Secretary’’, $3,005,442,000, which shall re-
main available until December 31, 2020, for
necessary expenses related to losses of crops
(including milk and harvested adulterated
wine grapes), trees, bushes, and vines, as a
consequence of Hurricanes Michael or Flor-
ence, other hurricanes, typhoons, volcanic
activity, or wildfires occurring in calendar
year 2018 under such terms and conditions as
determined by the Secretary of Agriculture
(referred to in this title as the ‘‘Secretary’’):
Provided, That the Secretary may provide as-
sistance for such losses in the form of block
grants to eligible states and territories and
such assistance may include compensation
to producers, as determined by the Sec-
retary, for past or future crop insurance pre-
miums, forest restoration, and poultry and
livestock losses: Provided further, That of the
amounts provided under this heading, tree
assistance payments may be made under sec-
tion 1501(e) of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7
U.S.C. 9081(e)) to eligible orchardists or nurs-
ery tree growers (as defined in such section)
of pecan trees with a tree mortality rate
that exceeds 7.5 percent (adjusted for normal
mortality) and is less than 15 percent (ad-
justed for normal mortality), to be available
until expended, for losses incurred during the
period beginning January 1, 2018, and ending
December 31, 2018: Provided further, That in
the case of producers impacted by volcanic
activity that resulted in the loss of crop
land, or access to crop land, the Secretary
shall consider all measures available, as ap-
propriate, to bring replacement land into
production: Provided further, That the total
amount of payments received under this
heading and applicable policies of crop insur-
ance under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7
U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) or the Noninsured Crop
Disaster Assistance Program (NAP) under
section 196 of the Federal Agriculture Im-
provement and Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C.
7333) shall not exceed 90 percent of the loss
as determined by the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That the total amount of payments re-
ceived under this heading for producers who
did not obtain a policy or plan of insurance
for an insurable commodity for the applica-
ble crop year under the Federal Crop Insur-
ance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) for the crop
incurring the losses or did not file the re-
quired paperwork and pay the service fee by
the applicable State filing deadline for a
noninsurable commodity for the applicable
crop year under NAP for the crop incurring
the losses shall not exceed 70 percent of the
loss as determined by the Secretary: Provided
further, That producers receiving payments
under this heading, as determined by the
Secretary, shall be required to purchase crop
insurance where crop insurance is available
for the next two available crop years, exclud-
ing tree insurance policies, and producers re-
ceiving payments under this heading shall be
required to purchase coverage under NAP
where crop insurance is not available in the
next two available crop years, as determined
by the Secretary: Provided further, That, not
later than 120 days after the end of fiscal
year 2019, the Secretary shall submit a re-
port to the Congress specifying the type,
amount, and method of such assistance by
state and territory: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
FARM SERVICE AGENCY
EMERGENCY FOREST RESTORATION PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Emer-
gency Forest Restoration Program’’, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Michael and Florence and
wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018, and
other natural disasters, $480,000,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION
OPERATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Watershed
and Flood Prevention Operations’’, for nec-
essary expenses for the Emergency Water-
shed Protection Program related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $125,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00116 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.056 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1147
February 7, 2019
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
RURAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for the cost of
grants for rural community facilities pro-
grams as authorized by section 306 and de-
scribed in section 381E(d)(1) of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act, for
necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Michael and Flor-
ence and wildfires occurring in calendar year
2018, and other natural disasters, $150,000,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That sections 381E-H and 381N of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act are
not applicable to the funds made available
under this heading: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 10001. In addition to amounts other-
wise made available, out of the funds made
available under section 18 of Food and Nutri-
tion Act of 2008, $25,200,000 shall be available
for the Secretary to provide a grant to the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands for disaster nutrition assistance in re-
sponse to the Presidentially declared major
disasters and emergencies: Provided, That
funds made available to the Commonwealth
of the Northern Mariana Islands under this
section shall remain available for obligation
by the Commonwealth until September 30,
2020: Provided further, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 10002. For purposes of administering
title I of subdivision 1 of division B of the Bi-
partisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–
123), losses to agricultural producers result-
ing from hurricanes shall also include losses
incurred from Tropical Storm Cindy and
losses of peach and blueberry crops in cal-
endar year 2017 due to extreme cold: Pro-
vided, That the amounts provided by this
section are designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursu-
ant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985: Provided further, That amounts
repurposed under this heading that were pre-
viously designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress as
an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 10003. (a)(1) Except as provided in
paragraph (2), a person or legal entity is not
eligible to receive a payment under the Mar-
ket Facilitation Program established pursu-
ant to the Commodity Credit Corporation
Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714 et seq.) if the aver-
age adjusted gross income of such person or
legal entity is greater than $900,000.
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a per-
son or legal entity if at least 75 percent of
the adjusted gross income of such person or
legal entity is derived from farming, ranch-
ing, or forestry related activities.
(b) A person or legal entity may not re-
ceive a payment under the Market Facilita-
tion Program described in subsection (a)(1),
directly or indirectly, of more than $125,000.
(c) In this section, the term ‘‘average ad-
justed gross income’’ has the meaning given
the term defined in section 760.1502 of title 7
Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect
July 18, 2018).
(d) The amount provided by this section is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SA 168. Mr. PAUL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle B of title I, add the
following:
SEC. 11lll. ACCESS TO WATERWAYS IN THE
DANIEL BOONE NATIONAL FOREST,
KENTUCKY.
The Secretary of Agriculture shall allow
access to the waterways feeding into Lake
Cumberland through the Daniel Boone Na-
tional Forest in Rockcastle County, Pulaski
County, Laurel County, Wayne County,
McCreary County, and Whitley County, Ken-
tucky, for the purpose of installing docks,
boat slips, and marinas.
SA 169. Mr. PAUL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of subtitle A of title I, add the
following
SEC. 10llll. SALE OF CERTAIN NATIONAL
FOREST SYSTEM LAND IN THE DAN-
IEL BOONE NATIONAL FOREST.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Agri-
culture (referred to in this section as the
‘‘Secretary’’) shall, in accordance with any
other applicable law and subject to valid ex-
isting rights, conduct 1 or more sales of the
National Forest System land described in
subsection (b) to qualified bidders.
(b) DESCRIPTION OF LAND.—The National
Forest System land referred to in subsection
(a) consists of National Forest System land
that—
(1) is located along U.S. Highway No. 27
from Burnside, Kentucky, through the Dan-
iel Boone National Forest to the point at
which U.S. Highway No. 27 crosses into the
State of Tennessee, as depicted on the map
prepared under subsection (c); and
(2) is identified for disposal by the Sec-
retary.
(c) MAP.—As soon as practicable after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
shall prepare a map of the National Forest
System land referred to in subsection (b)(1).
(d) CONSIDERATION.—The sale of National
Forest System land under subsection (a)
shall be for not less than fair market value.
SA 170. Ms. MCSALLY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 111 proposed by Ms.
MURKOWSKI (for herself and Mr.
MANCHIN) to the bill S. 47, to provide
for the management of the natural re-
sources of the United States, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of section 6001(a)(5), add the fol-
lowing:
(C) MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.—The
management plan for the National Heritage
Area designated by subparagraph (A) that is
submitted to the Secretary for approval
shall incorporate elements of history of the
State of Arizona, including—
(i) copper;
(ii) cattle;
(iii) cotton;
(iv) citrus; and
(v) climate.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
have 8 requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND
FORESTRY
The Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Thursday, February 7, 2019, at 1:45
p.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, February 7,
2019, at 10:15 a.m., to conduct a hearing
entitled ‘‘Examining United States Af-
rica Command and United States
Southern Command in review of the
Defense Authorization Request for fis-
cal year 2020 and the Future Years De-
fense Program.’’
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Thursday, February 7, 2019, at 9:30 a.m.,
to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Thursday, Feb-
ruary 7, 2019, at 2 p.m., to conduct a
hearing.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, February 7,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a business
meeting and hearing on the following
nominations: nominations of William
Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to be Attor-
ney General, and Donald W. Wash-
ington, of Texas, to be Director of the
United States Marshals Service, both
of the Department of Justice, Bridget
S. Bade, of Arizona, and Eric D. Miller,
of Washington, both to be a United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Cir-
cuit, Paul B. Matey, of New Jersey, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the
Third Circuit, Eric E. Murphy, of Ohio,
and Chad A. Readler, of Ohio, both to
be a United States Circuit Judge for
the Sixth Circuit, Allison Jones Rush-
ing, of North Carolina, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Fourth
Circuit, Rossie David Alston, Jr., to be
United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Virginia, Roy
Kalman Altman, Â Rodolfo Armando
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00117 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.057 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S1148 February 7, 2019
Ruiz II, and Rodney Smith, each to be
a United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Florida, Raul M.
Arias-Marxuach, to be United States
District Judge for the District of Puer-
to Rico, Thomas P. Barber, and Wendy
Williams Berger, both to be a United
States District Judge for the Middle
District of Florida, J. Campbell Bark-
er, and Â Michael J. Truncale, both to
be a United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Texas, Pamela
A. Barker, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of
Ohio, Kenneth D. Bell, to be United
States District Judge for the Western
District of North Carolina, Jean-Paul
Boulee, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of
Georgia, Holly A. Brady, and Â Damon
Ray Leichty, both to be a United
States District Judge for the Northern
District of Indiana, Andrew Lynn
Brasher, to be United States District
Judge for the Middle District of Ala-
bama, Brian C. Buescher, to be United
States District Judge for the District
of Nebraska, James David Cain, Jr., to
be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Louisiana, Stephen
R. Clark, Sr., to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Eastern District of
Missouri, Clifton L. Corker, to be
United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Tennessee, Daniel
Desmond Domenico, to be United
States District Judge for the District
of Colorado, Karin J. Immergut, to be
United States District Judge for the
District of Oregon, Matthew J.
Kacsmaryk, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Northern District of
Texas, Corey Landon Maze, to be
United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Alabama, David
Steven Morales, to be United States
District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of Texas, Sarah Daggett Morri-
son, to be United States District Judge
for the Southern District of Ohio, Carl
J. Nichols, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Columbia,
Howard C. Nielson, Jr., to be United
States District Judge for the District
of Utah, J. Nicholas Ranjan, to be
United States District Judge for the
Western District of Pennsylvania,
Wendy Vitter, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Eastern District of
Louisiana, T. Kent Wetherell II, and
Allen Cothrel Winsor, both to be a
United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Florida, Joshua
Wolson, and John Milton Younge, both
to be a United States District Judge
for the Eastern District of Pennsyl-
vania, Patrick R. Wyrick, to be United
States District Judge for the Western
District of Oklahoma, M. Miller Baker,
of Louisiana, and Timothy M. Reif, of
the District of Columbia, both to be a
Judge of the United States Court of
International Trade, and Richard A.
Hertling, of Maryland, and Ryan T.
Holte, of Ohio, both to be a Judge of
the United States Court of Federal
Claims.
COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
The Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Thursday, February 7, 2019, during
the first vote to conduct an organiza-
tional hearing.
COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS
The Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Thursday, Feb-
ruary 7, 2019, to conduct an organiza-
tional hearing.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Thursday,
February 7, 2019, at 2 p.m., to conduct
a closed briefing.
f
NOMINATION REFERRAL
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, as
in executive session, I ask unanimous
consent that the nomination of PN 191,
Ronald D. Vitiello, of Illinois, to be an
Assistant Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity, referred to the Homeland Security
Committee, upon reporting out be re-
ferred to the Judiciary Committee for
a period not to exceed 60 calendar days,
after which the nomination, if still in
committee, be discharged and placed
on the Executive Calendar.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR MONDAY, FEBRUARY
11, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 3 p.m., Monday, February
11; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; further, that following
leader remarks, the Senate resume
consideration of S. 47; finally, that not-
withstanding the provisions of rule
XXII, the cloture motion filed during
today’s session ripen at 5:30 p.m., Mon-
day, and the filing deadline for first-de-
gree amendments be at 4 p.m. on Mon-
day.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order following the remarks of
Senator CORNYN.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, today,
the Senate Judiciary Committee held a
vote on William Barr to be the next At-
torney General of the United States.
During his confirmation hearing a
few weeks ago, we saw an articulate,
measured, and highly capable indi-
vidual. There is no question in my
mind why two separate Presidents have
selected him to lead the Department of
Justice.
Throughout his impressive career,
Mr. Barr has displayed both legal acu-
men and an unwavering commitment
to the rule of law—a basic prerequisite
to serve as the highest law enforce-
ment officer in the country.
I will add that the Attorney General
is a unique member of the Cabinet be-
cause, as I said, he is the chief law en-
forcement officer of the country, but
he is also a political appointee of the
President. It takes some skill to navi-
gate that very thin line and to do it
with distinction and honor—something
that Mr. Barr has done before.
President George Herbert Walker
Bush recognized the talent in Mr. Barr
more than 25 years ago and nominated
him for not one, not two, but three im-
portant roles in the Department of Jus-
tice.
Mr. Barr testified before the Judici-
ary Committee for each of these posi-
tions: Assistant Attorney General for
the Office of Legal Counsel, Deputy At-
torney General, and, finally, Attorney
General of the United States. All three
times, he was unanimously approved
by the Senate.
As impressive as Mr. Barr was during
these confirmation hearings, he was
even more impressive once he was ac-
tually on the job. It is clear he made a
lasting impression on his colleagues at
the Department of Justice.
A group of 120 former Justice Depart-
ment and law enforcement officials
have written a letter to the chairman
and ranking member of the Judiciary
Committee supporting Mr. Barr’s nom-
ination. The list includes former Attor-
neys General and Deputy Attorneys
General, FBI Directors and Deputy Di-
rectors, a Department of Homeland Se-
curity Secretary, and a host of high-
ranking DOJ officials.
They wrote: ‘‘Bill is that rare com-
bination of intellect and principle who
has served our country in the Depart-
ment of Justice with great distinction
and then excelled as a senior executive
in the private sector.’’
They continued: ‘‘Bill also developed
great partnerships with state and local
law enforcement around the country
through the Department’s Executive
Working Group, creating joint task
forces to combat white collar crime,
drug trafficking and violent crime
across the nation.’’
Knowing that, it is no surprise he re-
ceived the endorsement of several orga-
nizations that represent law enforce-
ment, like the International Associa-
tion of Chiefs of Police, the Major Cit-
ies Chiefs Association, the Fraternal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00118 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE6.058 S07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S1149
February 7, 2019
Order of Police, the Major County
Sheriffs of America, and the National
Narcotics Officers’ Associations’ Coali-
tion, as well as others.
I quote our friend, the ranking mem-
ber DIANNE FEINSTEIN herself, who said:
‘‘No one can say he isn’t qualified.’’
We are fortunate to have such an in-
dividual who is willing to, once again,
step back into the spotlight to serve
his country. To me, that speaks vol-
umes.
It would be the easiest thing in the
world for Mr. Barr to say: Well, I have
been there and done that. Now I have
worked in the private sector, been a
success, and I am ready to hang it up
or at least enjoy my retirement years
with my grandkids and my wife.
That is not Bill Barr. Bill Barr is a
person driven by his sense of duty and
his desire to serve the American peo-
ple. To me, that is one of the distinc-
tions about him that impresses me the
most.
It would be easy for him to take a
walk and to not accept this responsi-
bility during these polarized times, but
he is willing to serve, and I think we
ought to embrace that willingness to
serve and confirm him.
I was proud to support Mr. Barr’s
nomination in the Judiciary Com-
mittee today, and I look forward to
voting yes on his nomination next
week when we vote on it.
Although Mr. Barr’s name has been
in the headlines, there are also a num-
ber of well-qualified nominees for Fed-
eral judgeships across the United
States who were reported out of the
Judiciary Committee today, including
four Texans. They are J. Campbell
Barker and Michael Truncale to be
U.S. district judges for the Eastern
District of Texas, Matthew Kacsmaryk
to be U.S. district judge for the North-
ern District of Texas, and David Mo-
rales to be U.S. district judge for the
Southern District of Texas. These indi-
viduals are principled and highly quali-
fied for the Federal bench.
Senator CRUZ and I worked closely
with our Federal Judicial Evaluation
Committee—a bipartisan committee of
the best lawyers in the State of
Texas—to screen these individuals and
then make recommendations to the
White House. I am confident in their
ability to serve Texans by faithfully
applying the law, and I hope the Senate
will move quickly to confirm them.
f
S. 47
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, finally,
following the President’s call for unity
and bipartisanship in his State of the
Union Address earlier this week, I am
glad to see the Senate responding to
that call and taking up legislation that
we are currently on that has received
broad bipartisan support in the Senate
just today.
Near the end of the last Congress, the
Senate and the House reached an
agreement on a package of more than
100 individual lands bills that received
broad bipartisan support. Unfortu-
nately, we ran out of time and weren’t
able to get it done, but next week, we
will have the opportunity to vote on
this important piece of legislation and
send this bipartisan bill to the Presi-
dent’s desk and demonstrate, once
again, to the American people—lest
anybody be in doubt—that we are capa-
ble of working together in a bipartisan
way in advancing the interests of the
American people.
Throughout my time in the Senate, I
have been an advocate for America’s
outdoor sporting traditions and com-
monsense wildlife conservation poli-
cies. Enhancing and expanding sports-
men’s access to Federal lands has been
on Congress’s to-do list for years, and
this legislation will help make that a
reality.
This package includes a series of bi-
partisan provisions negotiated over
years, which will provide increased op-
portunities for sportsmen and sports-
women to utilize Federal lands for
hunting and fishing. Those changes are
coupled with additional ones for con-
serving and enhancing wildlife habitats
to ensure we are protecting these lands
for generations to come.
This legislation also authorizes doz-
ens of land swaps—exchanges—and con-
veyances, which will deliver big
changes to communities across the
country, including in my State.
For example, the Lake Fannin recre-
ation area was once a thriving tourist
attraction for Texas, but, through the
years, it has become dilapidated due to
the inability of the Forest Service to
properly do maintenance.
The county has now developed a com-
prehensive plan to manage that land
for recreation, and this bill will restore
local control to more than 2,000 acres
in Fannin County, TX.
This legislation will also protect
property owners along the Red River—
the border between Texas and Okla-
homa—who have faced uncertainty fol-
lowing a flawed Bureau of Land Man-
agement survey under the previous ad-
ministration. This legislation will as-
sure these landowners that the Federal
Government has no rightful claim and
will make no claim to their property.
Again, I look forward to debating
this legislation in the coming days, and
I hope we can pass this bill, which will
allow for the responsible development
and conservation of land across our
country.
I see no Senators seeking the floor,
so I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 3 P.M.
MONDAY
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 3 p.m. on Monday.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 5:09 p.m.,
adjourned until Monday, February 11,
2019, at 3 p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00119 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G07FE6.044 S07FEPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E143
February 7, 2019
CONGRATULATING MR. EDWARD
HAMBERGER ON HIS RETIRE-
MENT FROM THE ASSOCIATION
OF AMERICAN RAILROADS
HON. DANIEL LIPINSKI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Mr. Edward Hamberger on his
retirement from the Association of American
Railroads (AAR), where he has served as
President since 1998. As a member of the
Transportation and Infrastructure committee,
and having worked alongside him for 14
years, I am pleased to recognize his contribu-
tions and commitment to America’s rail trans-
portation.
As President of AAR, Mr. Hamberger was
committed to improving the safety and effi-
ciency of our nation’s rail transportation net-
work. His more than 40 years of professional
experience have spanned the legislative and
executive branches of government, and pri-
vate legal practice. As President of AAR, he
was instrumental in elevating the voice of the
rail industry during the consideration of impor-
tant legislation including the Safe, Account-
able, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity
Act: A Legacy for Users, the Passenger Rail
Reform and Investment Act of 2015 and the
Fixing America’s Surface Transportation
(FAST) Act of 2016. Working collaboratively
with Members of Congress, Mr. Hamberger
was able to ensure these bills put forward poli-
cies that have improved safety and contributed
to the strength of the industry.
In addition to his work with AAR, Mr. Ham-
berger has served as an appointed member of
the Private Sector Advisory Panel on Infra-
structure Financing and as a member of the
Presidential Commission on Intermodal Trans-
portation. Most recently, he served on the
Blue Ribbon Panel of Transportation Experts,
after being appointed by the National Surface
Transportation Policy and Revenue Study
Commission. He is also a Board Member with
Railine, GoRail, and the University of Denver
Intermodal Transportation Institute.
His impact on transportation extends to the
farthest reaches of our transportation network,
and I am grateful for his service and expertise.
As a policymaker, I will miss his thoughtful
contribution to national dialogue and his char-
ismatic demeanor.
I ask my colleagues to join me in recog-
nizing Mr. Hamberger’s retirement and profes-
sional accomplishments throughout his career.
While his presence will be missed on Capitol
Hill, I wish him, and his wife Susan, a happy
retirement.
CELEBRATION AND RECOGNITION
OF GEORGE SCIMGER
HON. PAUL MITCHELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate Elba Township Deputy Fire
Chief George Scimger’s 45 years of service to
Lapeer County.
Born and raised in North Branch, Michigan,
Mr. Scimger has served and protected our
community for decades, working his way from
a firefighter, to captain, to assistant chief, and
now deputy chief.
In addition to his duties as a firefighter, fire-
fighting instructor, and hazmat instructor, Mr.
Scimger has contributed to many organiza-
tions serving as chairman for both the Lapeer
County Fire Association and the Michigan
State Firemen’s Association.
George has been honored many times for
his commitment to the community. The Lapeer
County Fire Association awarded him the
award for Firefighter of the Year and Out-
standing Officer two times. Also, his home
township, Elba Township, awarded him the
Chief’s Award two times.
He has been a dedicated husband, father,
and grandfather to his wife of 53 years, Carol,
their three children, and four grandchildren.
I join George’s family, friends, and the
Lapeer County community in thanking him for
the years of service and wish him well in his
retirement.
f
RECOGNIZING STUDENTS AND
FACULTY OF BIG TIMBER GRADE
SCHOOL AND SWEET GRASS
COUNTY HIGH SCHOOL
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the students and faculty of Big
Timber Grade School and Sweet Grass Coun-
ty High School for supporting and encouraging
Barrett Artukovich, a 7-year-old, second-grade
student from Big Timber who is battling can-
cer.
In early December 2018, Barrett was diag-
nosed with Hodgkin’s lymphoma, a form of
cancer that can advance quickly throughout
the body and weaken the immune system.
Barrett is undergoing a unique, personalized,
two-year treatment plan in Colorado where he
and his parents, Bill and Heather Artukovich,
will travel frequently for clinical visits.
The Big Timber community has rallied
around the family, offering generous support.
Because of the treatment, Barrett’s head is
shaved, and he wears a hat. The boys in
Barrett’s class shaved their heads in support
of their friend. Big Timber Grade School and
Sweet Grass County High School recently ob-
served ‘‘Wear a Hat for Barrett Day’’ with stu-
dents wearing hats in school with a one-dollar
donation to support a fund for the Artukovichs.
The schools kicked off ‘‘Barrett’s Penny
War,’’ a competition among each grade level
to see which grade raises the most money
through the end of February.
The high school boys basketball team
named Barrett its honorary captain for the
season. With his parents taking precautions,
Barrett attended the emotional game where
the team presented him with an autographed
basketball and team picture.
With the help of a grant, Barrett participates
virtually in the classroom using a telepresence
robot. The device provides a two-way audio/
video connection which allows Barrett to inter-
act with his teacher and classmates from
home.
Barrett’s uncle set up an online campaign to
help with travel, accommodations, and other
expenses. The initial goal of $20,000 was met
within a day, according to Bill Artukovich.
Madam Speaker, for their encouragement
and support of a classmate battling cancer
and his family, I recognize the students and
faculty of Big Timber Grade School and Sweet
Grass County High School for their spirit of
Montana.
f
IN MEMORY OF TROOPER LUCAS
B. DOWELL
HON. H. MORGAN GRIFFITH
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, the Com-
monwealth of Virginia mourns the loss of
Trooper Lucas B. Dowell of the Virginia State
Police. Trooper Dowell was killed in the line of
duty on February 4, 2019, at the age of 28.
His life, although too short, showed a commit-
ment to the rigorous calling of law enforce-
ment.
Trooper Dowell was a native of Chilhowie in
Smyth County. He participated in athletics dur-
ing his days at Chilhowie High School, playing
football and baseball. After graduating in 2009,
he pursued an interest in law enforcement. At
Radford University, he earned a bachelor’s de-
gree in criminal justice. He graduated from the
Virginia State Police’s 122nd Basic Session in
November 2014 and subsequently served in
its Appomattox Division. While executing a
search warrant in Cumberland County as part
of a Virginia State Police Tactical Team, a
suspect opened fire and Trooper Dowell was
hit. He later died at Southside Community
Hospital in Farmville.
Law enforcement can be a demanding vo-
cation, requiring sacrifices that may include,
as the example of Trooper Dowell shows, the
ultimate sacrifice, one’s life. This is a loss for
the Commonwealth of Virginia, Smyth County,
and the Town of Chilhowie. I mourn his loss,
yet I am grateful that he and the other men
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:24 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K07FE8.001 E07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E144 February 7, 2019
and women of law enforcement step forward
to protect us knowing full well the risks they
face. Trooper Dowell’s survivors include his
parents, Mike and Rebecca, and his sister,
Erica. His family is in my prayers.
f
IN HONOR OF THE 2019 CABARRUS
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE NON-
PROFIT OF THE YEAR AWARD
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and congratulate the NorthEast Foun-
dation for receiving the 2019 Cabarrus Cham-
ber of Commerce Nonprofit of the Year Award.
Carolinas HealthCare System NorthEast has
provided high quality health care and assist-
ance to those most in need in our community,
including when my young son, Lane, was de-
livered there just a few years ago. The hos-
pital’s NorthEast Foundation has been the
driver of so much development and advances
to help better serve our people, including rais-
ing the money needed to build the Jeff Gordon
Children’s Center, the Breast Health Center,
Cabarrus College of Health Sciences and ex-
panding the Tucker Hospice House.
Led by President Charlie Sastoque, the
NorthEast Foundation was formed in 1994 to
support one of our community’s most valued
assets, NorthEast Hospital. Utilizing a commu-
nity-driven and donor-centric approach, the
NorthEast Foundation has provided a platform
for which donors can provide to specialty
areas that interest or impact them the most.
This approach allows donors to directly see
the results of their donation, from a new piece
of equipment in the neurology lab to support
for a scholarship for aspiring nurses and doc-
tors. These creative programs have led di-
rectly to Cabarrus County being at the fore-
front of many medical innovations the last 25
years.
Our community—and my home—is a much
better place to live because of the work of the
NorthEast Foundation, and I wish them suc-
cess for the next quarter century.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
congratulating NorthEast Foundation on their
achievement of the 2019 Cabarrus Chamber
of Commerce Nonprofit of the Year Award.
f
CONDEMNING THE STATE OF
AFFAIRS IN VENEZUELA
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to draw attention to the human rights
atrocities that are occurring in Venezuela.
Under the leadership of Nicolás Madura, Ven-
ezuela has reverted from one of the most
prosperous nations in South America to a
country into severe crisis.
Venezuela’s economy, once the envy of
South America, currently faces one of the
worst cases of hyperinflation in modern his-
tory. The International Monetary Fund expects
the inflation rate to reach an astounding 10
million percent this year. Across the country
Venezuelans are struggling to survive, facing
immense difficulties putting food on the table
or affording basic necessities such as fuel and
medicine. More than 80 percent of Ven-
ezuelan households have insufficient access
to food. As grocery stores become increas-
ingly bare, hospitals too are running dan-
gerously low on supplies as the medical sys-
tem continues to crumble. Even though the
Ministry of Health has stopped reporting na-
tional health data, we know that rates of mal-
nutrition are rising, as are outbreaks of pre-
ventable diseases and the rate of infant mor-
tality.
Madam Speaker, more than three million
Venezuelan citizens have fled their home to
nearby nations, including nearly 300,000 who
have come to the United States seeking ref-
uge in 2018. As the situation continues to de-
teriorate, tens of thousands of protestors have
taken to he street to protest the economic and
humanitarian crises and demand change. We
must stand with those who are putting their
lives on the line to ensure that future genera-
tions of Venezuelans live in a peaceful and
prosperous country.
f
IN REMEMBRANCE OF GEORGE
KLEIN
HON. STEVE COHEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to pay tribute to George Klein, a Memphis
original and one of the late Elvis Presley’s
longest and closest friends after they met at
Humes High School in 1948, both aged 13.
Mr. Klein died Tuesday evening in Memphis at
the age of 83. George Klein, known as ‘‘GK,’’
was Memphis disc jockey and protégé of pio-
neering disc jockey Dewey Phillips, hosting
WHBQ-TV’s ‘‘Talent Party’’ (1964 to 1973)
and WMC radio’s ‘‘George Klein’s Rock & Roll
Ballroom. ‘‘ He later hosted SiriusXM satellite
radio’s Elvis Radio channel until last year. Mr.
Klein was inducted into the Memphis Music
Hall of Fame in 2018. A member of King of
Rock & Roll’s ‘‘Memphis Mafia’’ traveling en-
tourage, Mr. Klein was a groomsman in Pres-
ley’s wedding to Priscilla Beaulieu in 1967 in
Las Vegas (Elvis served as his best man
when Mr. Klein married in 1970) and served
as an Elvis pallbearer after the singer’s death
in 1977. Mr. Klein also had bit parts in some
of Elvis’ movies, including ‘‘Jailhouse Rock’’ in
1957. When Elvis was posthumously inducted
into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame in 1986, it
was his loyal friend Mr. Klein who gave the
acceptance speech. For Memphis, Mr. Klein
was our Bob Hope, hosting many civic affairs
programs and producing the annual George
Klein Christmas Charity Show that people
looked forward to seeing for years and which
raised a lot of money for various charities. As
a radio personality, he had a variety of career
highlights, hosting Johnny Cash’s radio debut;
bringing the first African American recording
artists—Fats Domino, Sam Cooke, James
Brown, and Jackie Wilson—to play on live
Memphis television; and introducing The
Beatles when they played the Mid-South Coli-
seum in August 1966. Everybody loved
George Klein. He was always cheerful and up-
beat and made life better for all he met; you
could say he helped make your day. Mr. Klein
very closely followed Memphis State and later
University of Memphis sports, particularly bas-
ketball. University of Memphis basketball
coach John Calipari said he used to talk to Mr.
Klein before basketball games and called him
‘‘an unbelievable ambassador’’ for Memphis.
George and I had a mutual friend in Irvin
Salky, who was his contemporary and occa-
sionally his counselor. Priscilla, who visited my
office last month, recognized Mr. Klein’s influ-
ence. She released a statement Tuesday
evening calling Mr. Klein ‘‘a legendary broad-
caster,’’ adding ‘‘but he was so much more to
our family. George has been there from the
beginning . . . He was a true Memphian and
always made it feel like home on trips back to
Graceland. I will forever cherish our memories
together, they will stay with me always.’’
George was my friend and his was a life well-
lived. He will be missed.
f
PASSING OF SHIRLEY RODRIGUEZ
REMENESKI
HON. NYDIA M. VELÁZQUEZ
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor my friend, Shirley Rodriguez
Remeneski, a dear friend and fellow New
Yorker who passed last week. Shirley was an
inspiration to all of us, a trailblazer and a lead-
er. To me, she was a friend. Her passion was
for people and community and her rich career
encapsulates those values.
In 1965, she created and directed the first
Social Services Unit in the Bronx Borough
President’s Office under the leadership of Her-
man Badillo and, later, Robert Abrams. Six
years later, she became the District Adminis-
trator for then-Congressman Herman Badillo,
serving as a vital bridge between New York
City and Washington, D.C.
Shirley’s next step was in the Koch Adminis-
tration, working as Assistant Deputy Mayor for
affirmative action, intergovernmental relations,
and community development in South Bronx,
Harlem and other underdeveloped areas in
New York City.
When President Carter visited South Bronx,
calling it the nation’s disgrace, Shirley became
the Legislative Coordinator for the South
Bronx Development Organization. In that role,
she secured funding for vital programs like
Bathgate Industrial Park and the Charlotte
Gardens Housing Development Project. She
helped to create the South Bronx Job Corps
Center, and other land revitalization projects.
By helping South Bronx become an Empower-
ment Zone, she channeled needed business
development and economic opportunity to the
area.
Later, as Executive Director of Governor
Mario Cuomo’s Office for Hispanic Affairs she
initiated the Puerto Rico Exchange of Officials
Program to enhance governmental services to
Puerto Ricans on the island and in New York
state. In 2002, Governor Pataki appointed her
Senior Vice President at the Empire State De-
velopment Corporation’s Economic Develop-
ment Division.
While Shirley’s professional accomplish-
ments are impressive, to me she was so much
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:24 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A07FE8.001 E07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E145
February 7, 2019
more. For 35 years she was one of my closest
friends. We traveled together and Shirley’s
love for people always shined through wher-
ever we went. She loved entertaining and her
house became a gathering place for all the
women she had mentored and empowered.
No one could throw a party like Shirley and I’ll
remember many nights of food, drink and,
most of all, lots of laughs and warm company
in her home. She truly meant the phrase Your
house is my house (Su Casa es mi Casa).
She always said she adored my Tina Turner
impression. I’ll do it again for Shirley when I
next see her.
I’ll miss my dear friend, Shirley Rodriguez
Remeneski. Her soul was infused with a pas-
sion for improving her community, for serving
others and for strengthening New York. In
every position she served, she brought a tire-
less commitment to positive change and an in-
fectious energy that made those around her
feel no obstacle was insurmountable. I send
my prayers and thoughts to Shirley’s family.
May they take comfort in knowing our commu-
nity mourns with them and that our city will
continue paying homage to her myriad con-
tributions.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. MICHAEL WALTZ
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. WALTZ. Madam Speaker, due to
logistical challenges, I unintentionally missed a
roll call vote on H.R. 502. Had I been present,
I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 53.
f
IN HONOR OF CHRIS ARCHER FOR
RECEIVING THE 2019 CABARRUS
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AM-
BASSADOR OF THE YEAR AWARD
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and congratulate Chris Archer for re-
ceiving the Cabarrus Chamber of Commerce
Ambassador of the Year Award.
The Cabarrus Chamber of Commerce Am-
bassador team is a group of highly visible,
prestigious volunteers who serve as the
Chamber’s primary liaison to Chamber mem-
bers and the community. They provide vital
leadership by sharing their business insights
and connections with members and represent
the best the Chamber has to offer.
Since joining the Cabarrus Chamber two
years ago, Mr. Archer understood that building
relationships is the key to any successful busi-
ness. As an Account Manager at Sharp Busi-
ness Systems, he has seen success as a re-
sult of his involvement with the Chamber of
Commerce. He is always ready to greet new
members and promote the Chamber to non-
members—he’s one of the key reasons our
Chamber has been so successful the past
year.
Mr. Archer is deserving of this award and I
wish him success as he continues to provide
excellent service to our community.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
congratulating Chris Archer on receiving the
2019 Cabarrus Chamber of Commerce Am-
bassador of the Year Award.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA NATIONAL GUARD
HOME RULE ACT
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the District of Columbia National
Guard Home Rule Act, a bill that would give
the mayor of the District of Columbia authority
to deploy the D.C. National Guard, after con-
sultation with the Commanding General of the
D.C. National Guard, with the President retain-
ing authority on federal matters. In local emer-
gencies, including natural disasters and civil
disturbances unrelated to national or home-
land security, the mayor of the District should
have the same authority that governors exer-
cise over the National Guard in their states
and territories. Each governor—including the
governors of the three U.S. territories with
Guards—has the authority to deploy the Na-
tional Guard to protect his or her state or terri-
tory, just as local militia did historically.
The National Guards in the 50 states and
territories operate under dual federal and local
jurisdiction. Yet only the President currently
has the authority to deploy the D.C. National
Guard for both national and local purposes.
Today, by far the most likely need for the D.C.
National Guard here would be for natural dis-
asters, such as hurricanes and floods, and to
restore order in the wake of civil disturbances.
The mayor, who knows the city better than
any federal official and who works closely with
federal security officials, should be able to call
on the D.C. National Guard for local natural
disasters and civil disturbances, after consulta-
tion with the Commanding General of the D.C.
National Guard. The President should be fo-
cused on national matters, including homeland
security, not local D.C. matters. Homeland se-
curity authority, with respect to the D.C. Na-
tional Guard, would remain the sole province
of the President, along with the power to fed-
eralize the D.C. National Guard for federal
matters at will. It does no harm to give the
mayor authority to deploy the Guard for civil
disturbances and natural disasters. However,
it could do significant harm to leave the mayor
powerless to act quickly. If it makes sense that
governors would have control over the deploy-
ment of their National Guards, it makes equal
sense for the mayor of the District, with a pop-
ulation the size of a small state, to have the
same authority.
The mayor of the District, as chief execu-
tive, should have the authority to deploy the
D.C. National Guard in instances that do not
rise to the level of federal homeland security
activities. My bill permits the mayor to deploy
the D.C. National Guard only after consultation
with the Commanding General of the D.C. Na-
tional Guard. The bill is another important step
toward completing the transfer of full self-gov-
ernment powers to the District that Congress
began with the passage of the Home Rule Act
of 1973, when it delegated most of its author-
ity over District matters to an elected mayor
and Council. The bill follows that model.
I urge my colleagues to support the bill.
f
IN HONOR OF TIM VAUGHN, THE
2019 DUKE ENERGY CITIZENSHIP
AND SERVICE AWARD WINNER
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and congratulate Timothy F. Vaughn
for receiving the 2019 Duke Energy Citizen-
ship and Service Award from the Cabarrus
Chamber of Commerce.
The Duke Energy Citizenship and Service
Award seeks out individuals who use their
time, talent and compassion to positively im-
pact the lives of others in their community or
in the workplace. Recipients of the award help
foster a culture of citizenship and service that
acts as a catalyst for others to become in-
volved in civic and social activities.
Even though he always puts others first, I
can think of no one more deserving of rec-
ognition than Tim Vaughn. I’ve known Tim for
over twenty years at this point—despite man-
aging Hilbish Ford, one of the biggest car
dealerships in the state, he’s always found
time to step up and lead our community. He’s
helped lead the Rotary Club, he’s helped our
children in both Cabarrus County and
Kannapolis City Schools, and he’s always
been thoroughly involved with the Cabarrus
Chamber.
Tim Vaughn truly represents the best our
county has to offer, and I’m thrilled he is being
recognized by Duke Energy and the Cabarrus
Chamber of Commerce.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
congratulating Timothy F. Vaughn on receiving
the 2019 Duke Energy Citizenship and Service
Award from the Cabarrus Chamber of Com-
merce.
f
RECOGNIZING MR. JACK KELEHER
FOR HIS INTERNSHIP WITH THE
UNI-CAPITAL WASHINGTON IN-
TERNSHIP PROGRAMME
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Mr. Jack Keleher. Jack has
worked in my Washington, D.C. Congressional
office as an intern through the Uni-Capitol
Washington Internship Programme (UCWIP)
since January. I am so pleased to acknowl-
edge his hard work and dedication.
Jack is currently pursuing his Bachelor of
Arts/Bachelor of Laws at Deakin University in
Victoria, where he is a Member of the Deakin
Law Student’s Society, the Law Institute of
Victoria, and the Golden Key International
Honor Society. He earned a certificate in Ad-
vanced Legal Research in 2017 and gained
valuable experience as a legal caseworker,
law clerk, and paralegaL
For the past 19 years, UCWIP has paired
students from nearly a dozen partner univer-
sities in Australia with offices on Capitol Hill,
giving them the opportunity to work in the halls
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:24 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A07FE8.005 E07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E146 February 7, 2019
of Congress and learn about the American
legislative process. Over the years, I have
been honored to host many outstanding Aus-
tralian students, and Jack has been no excep-
tion.
As an intern, Jack has helped my office with
many of the day-to-day administrative func-
tions, including taking calls from constituents,
welcoming visitors, and drafting letters in re-
sponse to inquiries. He also had the oppor-
tunity to work on floor remarks, as well as
helping my staff with legislative research and
outreach on several bills that I have intro-
duced in the 116th Congress. Jack ap-
proached his internship with great enthusiasm
and clearly has showed his passion for public
service.
On February 5th, Jack had the opportunity
to attend the 2019 State of the Union Address
by President Trump. I know this is just one of
several experiences that he will take away
from his time in Washington and the United
States.
Madam Speaker, it has been my honor to
host Jack for his Congressional internship. I
have no doubt he will go on to do great things
in the future. I wish him much success.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF MRS. MILLIE RUTH
MCCLELLAND CHARLES
HON. CEDRIC L. RICHMOND
OF LOUISIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. RICHMOND. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the life and legacy of Mrs. Millie Ruth
McClelland Charles, a legendary social worker
and native of New Orleans, Louisiana. Mrs.
McClelland passed away at the age of 96.
Mrs. Charles was born July 25, 1923 in New
Orleans, Louisiana to Rev. Williams
McClelland, a Baptist preacher, and Frankie
Little, a school teacher.
Mrs. Charles entered Dillard University
when she was only 15 years old and grad-
uated with a degree in secondary education.
However, after a few years of teaching in
north Louisiana and loving the children in her
classes, she realized she could find more ful-
fillment in social work because she would be
able to help children and their families find
ways to solve problems. Therefore, she
earned a master’s degree in the subject at the
University of Southern California in the mid-
1950s.
Mrs. Charles was married briefly, to Charles
Carrol Charles, in 1950, while she was work-
ing in the City Welfare Department, Children
and Family Services Division. He died while
she was pregnant with her only child, who
goes by the name H.M.K. Amen.
In or about 1965, Dr. Emmett W. Bashful,
asked an energetic, passionate 42 year old
Mrs. Charles to start a social work program at
Southern University in New Orleans (SUNO).
In its beginnings, it was a department of So-
cial Work. Under the leadership of Mrs.
Charles, the department transformed into a
fully-accredited school of social work offering
baccalaureate and masters level degrees.
Mrs. Charles’s work has been recognized
nationally. The National Association of Social
Workers named her Social Worker of the
Year. SUNO has a Millie McClelland Charles
Endowed Chair of Social Work, and the Lou-
isiana Legislature passed a special resolution
to name SUNO’s School of Social Work build-
ing after her. The building opened in 2016.
Mrs. Charles served as Co-Chair of the
Council on Social Work Education (CSWE)
Annual Meeting; a Member of the CSWE
Committee on Undergraduate Curriculum
Standards; and a Site Visitor for the CSWE
Accreditation Commission. In addition, since
1972, she has consulted with numerous Un-
dergraduate and Graduate Social Work Pro-
grams around the U.S., advising them on cur-
ricula.
Mrs. Charles has received numerous
awards: National Social Worker of the Year
(NASW), 1975; Humanitarian of the Year,
Federal Women Employees Association, 1975;
Founders Award, New Orleans Chapter, Na-
tional Association of Black Social Workers,
1979; Doctor of Humane Letters, Dillard Uni-
versity, 1993; and she also was one of four
women honored by the New Orleans YWCA
for lifetime of service to the community. Mrs.
Charles was hailed as a lifelong crusader for
equality during a ceremony in which she was
presented The Times-Picayune Loving Cup on
Tuesday, June 24, 2013.
Mrs. Charles loved the city and the people
of New Orleans. Her legacy will forever be a
part of the city and her dedication to commu-
nity embodies the spirit of New Orleans. We
cannot match the sacrifices made by Mrs.
Charles, but surely, we can try to match her
sense of service. We cannot match her cour-
age, but we can strive to match her devotion.
Madam Speaker, I celebrate the life and
legacy of Mrs. Millie Ruth McClelland Charles.
f
IN HONOR OF THE 2019 CABARRUS
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE NEW
BUSINESS OF THE YEAR AWARD
WINNER
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and congratulate 73 & Main Res-
taurant on receiving the 2019 Cabarrus Cham-
ber of Commerce New Business of the Year
Award.
Located in Mt. Pleasant, North Carolina, 73
& Main Restaurant has established itself as a
restaurant that caters to not just folks from
around the area, but people from across the
country. This restaurant features a bourbon
bar, chef’s table, patio, event space, and
more. 73 & Main has quickly become a source
of pride for the community, myself included.
Led by Dr. Allen Dobson and General Man-
ager Anthony Misuraca, 73 & Main over the
past year has not just become Mt. Pleasant’s
largest employer, but has also helped revi-
talize downtown Mt. Pleasant and eastern
Cabarrus County. With over 50 percent of
their guests coming from outside Cabarrus
County, it is clear that 73 & Main is worthy of
their already stellar reputation.
Dr. Dobson, Mr. Misuraca and 73 & Main
Restaurant are deserving of this award and I
wish them success as they continue to provide
excellent service to our community. I person-
ally look forward to my next visit while I’m
traveling across the district.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
congratulating Allen Dobson, Anthony
Misuraca and 73 & Main Restaurant on receiv-
ing the 2019 Cabarrus Chamber of Commerce
New Business of the Year Award.
f
HONORING SENIOR MASTER
SERGEANT DAVID HOUTZ
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect that I rise today to recognize
Senior Master Sergeant David Houtz. After 24
years of dedicated and honorable service in
the Pennsylvania Air National Guard, SMSgt
Houtz will be retiring at the end of this month.
I have a profound admiration for those indi-
viduals who answer the call to serve and dedi-
cate themselves to our country and commu-
nity. SMSgt Houtz is actively engaged in
strengthening his community and serves as an
important role model for both fellow airmen
and our younger generations.
Throughout his distinguished career, SMSgt
Houtz has received various awards and acco-
lades, including the Meritorious Service Medal,
Air Force Commendation Medal, and the Army
Achievement Medal. He has also served as a
Boy Scout leader, a coach for various youth
sports, and a member of the Myerstown Water
Authority.
I ask that my colleagues join me in thanking
SMSgt Houtz for his dedicated service to the
United States and his many contributions to
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. We wish
him the best as he enters this next chapter in
life.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE YAKIMA
RIVER BASIN WATER ENHANCE-
MENT PROJECT PHASE III ACT
HON. DAN NEWHOUSE
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to introduce my legislation, the Yakima
River Basin Water Enhancement Project
Phase III Act. As my constituents know all too
well, communities across the western United
States are often faced with the detrimental im-
pacts of droughts and water shortages. This
bipartisan legislation offers solutions to give
water users more certainty, while also recog-
nizing the concerns of conservationists and
the various stakeholders in the Yakima River
Basin.
The Yakima River Basin is one of the lead-
ing agricultural regions in Washington State
and throughout the country. The orchardists,
wine grape and hop growers, and other mem-
bers of the agricultural community inject ap-
proximately $3.2 billion into Washington’s
economy and support countless jobs in the
area. However, the demand for water in the
region currently exceeds the resources avail-
able, especially during times of drought, which
have hit the state especially hard in the past
few years.
With researchers predicting that drought
seasons will only become more common and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:24 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A07FE8.010 E07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E147
February 7, 2019
get worse as snowpack in the mountains con-
tinues to decline, action needs to be taken so
that stakeholders in the Yakima River Basin
can continue operating without having to worry
about whether or not they will be able to water
their crops or support key commercial and mu-
nicipal activities. As the nation has witnessed
extreme water problems in California, we must
be proactive and have a viable plan in place
should intense drought persist in Washington
State.
The Yakima River Basin Integrated Plan
was developed by a diverse group of stake-
holders from the region, including farmers and
ranchers; irrigation districts; county and city
governments; tribes; conservation organiza-
tions; and state and federal agencies. The
Plan will protect, mitigate and enhance fish
and wildlife habitat; provide increased oper-
ational flexibility to manage instream flows to
meet ecological objectives; and improve the
reliability of the water supply in the Yakima
River Basin for irrigation, municipal supply,
and domestic uses.
After years of tough negotiations, the Yak-
ima River Basin Plan is a model of collabora-
tion that offers a solution to give water users
more certainty, while also recognizing the con-
cerns of conservationists and the various
stakeholders in the Yakima Basin. The author-
ization of this next crucial phase of the Plan is
vital for my District. This legislation will provide
the tools and necessary next steps to ad-
dressing our water challenges in Central
Washington.
I thank my new colleague, Representative
SCHRIER, for joining me in introducing this leg-
islation, as well as Senator CANTWELL for her
partnership and continued determination to get
this effort across the finish line. As this iden-
tical legislation currently moves through the
Senate in the lands package legislation, I wel-
come all members to join me in supporting the
legislation here in the People’s House.
f
AMERICAN FOOD FOR AMERICAN
SCHOOLS ACT OF 2019
HON. JOHN GARAMENDI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker, today I
reintroduce the ‘‘American Food for American
Schools Act.’’ I want to thank my colleague
and northern California neighbor Congress-
man DOUG LAMALFA (R–CA) for his support as
the original cosponsor.
The ‘‘American Food for American Schools
Act’’ would strengthen ‘‘Buy American’’ re-
quirements under the National School Lunch
Program, administered by the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture (USDA). This will ensure
that school districts use federal taxpayer dol-
lars to purchase domestically sourced food
products for in-school meals. Our bipartisan
bill would also increase transparency so that
parents are notified when their schoolchildren
are served foreign-produced foods.
Even in northern California and Central Val-
ley farming communities, some school districts
use taxpayer dollars to buy imported foods,
unnecessarily, without informing parents. In
numerous cases, these same imported foods
have been recalled due to safety concerns
and outbreaks of foodborne diseases, when
those same foods could have been sourced
locally in the first place.
Under our bill, school districts would be re-
quired to obtain a waiver from the USDA to
use any federal taxpayer dollars to purchase
foreign-sourced food products. Any such
USDA waivers would only be granted if the
domestically produced food was cost prohibi-
tive or simply unavailable.
Our bill would also require that school dis-
tricts notify parents of all foreign-sourced
foods served to students, by posting any such
waivers obtained from the USDA on the
school’s website. This would increase public
transparency and provide American farmers
an opportunity to seek out school districts that
need affordable, domestically grown foods.
Our nation’s schoolchildren should be served
nutritious, American-grown foods produced
under the strictest food safety standards in the
world. That is exactly what our bill would do.
Last year, Congress included ‘‘Buy Amer-
ican’’ language for the National School Lunch
Program in the Agriculture Improvement Act of
2018 (Public Law 115–334). This is a good
first step in addressing this critical issue for
American farmers and school parents. Now
Congress needs to finish the job by passing
our ‘‘American Food for American Schools
Act’’ into law.
Madam Speaker, I hope all members of the
House will join me and Congressman LaMalfa
in cosponsoring the ‘‘American Food for Amer-
ican Schools Act of 2019.’’ I also hope that
our bipartisan bill will be included in any future
Child Nutrition Reauthorization taken up by the
House and Senate.
f
IN HONOR OF THE 2019 CABARRUS
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE SMALL
BUSINESS OF THE YEAR AWARD
WINNER
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and congratulate DecisionPathHR for
receiving the 2019 Cabarrus Chamber of
Commerce Small Business of the Year Award.
With North Carolina locations in Charlotte
and Concord, DecisionPathHR is one of the
finest staffing companies in the country. Their
ability to compete with national and inter-
national companies has allowed them to cre-
ate an impressive reputation in the industry,
and through their hard work and dedication
they exemplify the true meaning of a success-
ful small business.
Led by President and CEO Tom Gibson,
DecisionPathHR has quickly risen from their
founding in 2012 to leading the industry today.
Achieving a number of industry staffing
awards over the years, DecisionPathHR has
developed through innovation in internal hiring
and improvements in their digital marketing
and collaboration process. It is clear that the
best days for DecisionPathHR are still ahead.
They also shared the same office site as my
District Office in Concord, so my team has
personally witnessed their hard work in action
over the years.
DecisionPathHR and its entire team is in-
credibly deserving of this award and I wish
them success as they continue to help folks in
our area find good jobs to provide for their
families and our community.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
congratulating DecisionPathHR on receiving
the 2019 Cabarrus Chamber of Commerce
Small Business of the Year Award.
f
SALUTING THE HEROIC ACTS OF
THE MEMBERS OF THE PALM
BAY POLICE DEPARTMENT,
PALM BAY, FLORIDA
HON. BILL POSEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. POSEY. Madam Speaker, on February
27, 2019, the City of Palm Bay will recognize
the courage and bravery of the City’s law en-
forcement officers and civilians during their
Annual Award ’s Ceremony to be held at the
Dragonfly Farms located at 750 Osmosis Dr.
in Palm Bay, FL. Over two-hundred Law En-
forcement Officials and Civilian Employees
make up The City of Palm Bay’s Police De-
partment.
The 166 Sworn Officers, and all the men
and women that make up the Palm Bay Police
Department lay down their lives on a daily
basis as peacekeepers, maintaining law and
order for the protection and enhancement of
our community. Their motto of Connect,
Serve, and Impact speaks of officers con-
necting with the community as they serve with
pride to provide a positive impact to its citi-
zens. Their selfless actions are right and
noble. Their actions help keep our community
safe.
The Palm Bay Police Department obtained
its State of Florida Law Enforcement Accredi-
tation status on October 31, 2007, from the
Commission for Florida Law Enforcement Ac-
creditation, Inc. and has successfully reached
reaccreditations over the last twelve years.
I am honored to show my support for the
law enforcement personnel of the Palm Bay
Police Department and their heroic acts. I ask
my colleagues to join me in recognizing their
sacrifices and the sacrifices of their families.
Among those to be recognized are the Offi-
cer of the Year Recipient, Agent Sean Pindar,
the Civilian of the Year Recipient, Crime Ana-
lyst Dawn Strickland, and the Telecommuni-
cator of the Year, Shift Supervisor Magan
Salender.
The Distinguished Service Cross Award Re-
cipients: Corporal Neal Valenti and Officer
Christina Martin.
Officers and Civilian Recipients of the Life
Saving Award: Officer Matthew Boggess, Offi-
cer Thomas Danti, Officer Joseph Moreno, Of-
ficer John Neal, Officer William Pennington,
and Officer Brandon Williams.
Officers and Civilian Recipients of the Meri-
torious Service Award: Sergeant Steve Shytle,
Agent Sean Pindar (second award), Officer
Aaron Arndt, Officer Christopher Jones, Officer
Edwin Lutz, Officer Frank Tobar, and Officer
Thomas Trotter.
Officers and Civilian Recipients of the Com-
munity Service Award: Lieutenant Steve
Bland, Lieutenant Lance Fisher, Sergeant Jef-
frey Spears, Sergeant Tina Hensel, K9 Officer
Byron Patrick, YSU Officer Roy Lavanture, Of-
ficer Ryan Austin, and School Crossing Guard
George Henderson (second award).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:24 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A07FE8.014 E07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E148 February 7, 2019
HONORING MEDAL OF HONOR
RECIPIENT DESMOND DOSS
HON. BEN CLINE
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. CLINE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
pay tribute to Lynchburg, Virginia, native and
Medal of Honor recipient, Desmond Doss, on
what would be his 100th birthday.
An Army Medic, Pfc. Doss was presented
the Congressional Medal of Honor, the na-
tion’s highest military award, for his heroic ac-
tions during the infamous World War II Battle
of Okinawa.
According to his Medal of Honor Citation,
‘‘As our troops gained the summit, a heavy
concentration of artillery, mortar and machine-
gun fire crashed into them, inflicting approxi-
mately 75 casualties and driving the others
back. Pfc. Doss refused to seek cover and re-
mained in the fire-swept area with the many
stricken, lowering them one by one to the
edge of the cliff into friendly hands.’’
Though seriously injured himself, Doss
spurned an initial rescue attempt seeing a
more critically wounded man nearby. Awaiting
the return of litter bearers, Doss was again in-
jured yet crawled 300 yards to safety at an aid
station.
‘‘Through his outstanding bravery and un-
flinching determination in the face of des-
perately dangerous conditions, Pfc. Doss
saved the lives of many soldiers,’’ the citation
read. ‘‘His name became a symbol throughout
the 77th Infantry Division for outstanding gal-
lantry far above and beyond the call of duty.’’
On the date of what would be his 100th
birthday, I take this occasion to celebrate the
life and accomplishments of Pfc. Desmond
Doss.
f
CELEBRATING MR. DON KIVLER’S
90TH BIRTHDAY
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, It is with
great respect that I rise today to recognize Mr.
Don Kivler of the Lake Silkworth Volunteer
Fire Department. Don, who currently serves as
President of the fire department and as Cap-
tain of the Fire Police, recently celebrated his
90th Birthday.
Don has been a member of the Lake
Silkworth Volunteer Fire Department for over
fifty years. A man of humility and integrity, he
has bravely responded to countless emer-
gency situations and dedicated over half of his
life to promoting the safety and security of his
friends and neighbors.
Don has strengthened the department and
shaped his community for years to come. He
is truly a cornerstone of Lake Silkworth and
serves as an example to those around him. As
Don embarks on his 90th year, I ask that my
colleagues join me in thanking him for his
dedicated service to the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania and wishing him many more
happy and healthy years.
RETIREMENT OF FIRE CHIEF TIM
BLACK
HON. DAVID P. JOYCE
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Ohio. Madam Speaker, I
would like to recognize the incredible life and
career of Fire Chief Tim Black. Chief Black is
retiring after 36 years of dedicated service to
the City of Macedonia. Originally hired as a
Parks and Recreation employee, Chief Black
rose through the ranks and was promoted to
Fire Chief in 1995. Chief Black facilitated the
growth of not only the fire department but of
the City of Macedonia as a whole, all while
protecting and serving the residents of Mac-
edonia. In his retirement, Chief Black hopes to
spend more time camping with his wife, Mary,
and his children and grandchildren. I applaud
and congratulate Fire Chief Tim Black on a life
of service and dedication to his community.
While I am sure he will be missed serving in
this role, I am certain he will continue to serve
Northeast Ohio and wish him the best in his
retirement.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. F. JAMES SENSENBRENNER, JR.
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. SENSENBRENNER. Madam Speaker,
due to a scheduled medical procedure, I was
physically absent from the House of Rep-
resentatives from January 10, 2019 to Feb-
ruary 5, 2019. During that time, I missed 44
recorded votes. Had I been present for those
votes, I would have voted: on Roll Call No. 22
on the Republican Motion to Recommit on
H.R. 267, I would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll
Call No. 23 on the Passage of H.R. 267, I
would have voted ‘‘Nay;’’ on Roll Call No. 24
on the Republican Motion to Recommit on
H.R. 265, I would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll
Call No. 25 on the Passage of H.R. 265, I
would have voted ‘‘Nay;’’ on Roll Call No. 26
on the Republican Motion to Recommit on
H.R. 266, I would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll
Call No. 27 on the Passage of H.R. 266, I
would have voted ‘‘Nay;’’ on Roll Call No. 28
on the Passage of S. 24, I would have voted
‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll Call No. 29 on the Passage of
H.R. 221, I would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll
Call No. 30 on the Passage of H.R. 116, I
would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll Call No. 31
on the Passage of H.J. Res. 27, I would have
voted ‘‘Nay;’’ on Roll Call No. 32 on the Pas-
sage of H. Res. 41, I would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’
on Roll Call No. 33 on the Passage of H.R.
135, I would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll Call
No. 34 on Ordering the Previous Question on
H. Res. 43, I would have voted ‘‘Nay;’’ on Roll
Call No. 35 on the Adoption of H. Res. 43, I
would have voted ‘‘Nay;’’ on Roll Call No. 36
on the Passage of H.R. 190, I would have
voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll Call No. 37 on the Pas-
sage of Amendment No. 2 offered by Mr.
MCGOVERN (D–MA), I would have voted
‘‘Nay;’’ on Roll Call No. 38 on Ordering the
Republican Motion to Recommit, I would have
voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll Call No. 39 on the Pas-
sage of H.R. 268, I would have voted ‘‘Nay;’’
on Roll Call No. 40 on the Adoption of H. Res.
52, I would have voted ‘‘Nay;’’ on Roll Call No.
41 on the Passage of H.R. 150, I would have
voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll Call No. 42 on the Pas-
sage of H.J. Res. 30, I would have voted
‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll Call No. 43 on Republican Mo-
tion to Recommit, I would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’
on Roll Call No. 44 on the Passage of H.R.
676, I would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll Call
No. 45 on the Passage of H.R. 328, I would
have voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll Call No. 46 on the
Passage of H.J. Res 28, I would have voted
‘‘Nay;’’ on Roll Call No. 47 on the Passage of
H. Res. 61, I would have voted ‘‘Nay;’’ on Roll
Call No. 48 on the Republican Motion to Re-
commit, I would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll
Call No. 49 on the Passage of H.R. 648, I
would have voted ‘‘Nay;’’ on Roll Call No. 50
on the Republican Motion to Recommit, I
would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll Call No. 51
on the Passage of H.J. Res. 31, I would have
voted ‘‘Nay;’’ on Roll Call No. 52 on the Pas-
sage of H.R. 624, I would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’
on Roll Call No. 53 on the Passage of H.R.
502, I would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll Call
No. 54 on Approving of the Speaker’s Journal,
I would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll Call No. 55
on the Motion to Adjourn, I would have voted
‘‘Nay;’’ on Roll Call No. 56 on the Passage of
H.R. 428, I would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll
Call No. 57 on the Passage of H.R. 449, I
would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll Call No. 58
on the Passage of H.R. 769, I would have
voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll Call No. 59 on the Mo-
tion to Table the Motion to Reconsider H. Res.
77, I would have voted ‘‘Nay;’’ on Roll Call No.
60 on Ordering the Previous Question on H.
Res. 87, I would have voted ‘‘Nay;’’ on Roll
Call No. 61 on the Passage of H. Res. 87, I
would have voted ‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll Call No. 62
on the Passage of Amendment No. 3 offered
by Mrs. TRAHAN (D–MA), I would have voted
‘‘Nay;’’ on Roll Call No. 63 on the Republican
Motion to Recommit, I would have voted
‘‘Yea;’’ on Roll Call No. 64 on the Passage of
H.R. 790, I would have voted ‘‘Nay;’’ and on
Roll Call No. 65 on the Passage of H. Res.
79, I would have voted ‘‘Nay.’’
f
IN HONOR OF THE 2019 CABARRUS
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE VOLUN-
TEER BUSINESS OF THE YEAR
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and congratulate Team Honeycutt of
Allen Tate Realtors for being named the 2019
Cabarrus Chamber of Commerce Volunteer
Business of the Year.
Team Honeycutt is one of Cabarrus Coun-
ty’s premier real estate teams. Helping North
Carolinians find new homes for over 30 years,
Team Honeycutt and their 24 employees are
known not just for their exemplary work in real
estate, but their commitment to volunteer serv-
ice in their community.
Led by my good friend and Cabarrus Coun-
ty Commissioner Diane Honeycutt, Team
Honeycutt has been a pillar of the community
for decades. Their team has an astounding
100 percent participation rate on service
projects, and in the last 15 years has contrib-
uted over $150,000 in the Cabarrus County
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:24 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A07FE8.018 E07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E149
February 7, 2019
area. These contributions include scholarships
to local schools and community colleges, do-
nations to the American Red Cross for Hurri-
cane Relief, and direct contributions to count-
less community organizations we know and
love.
Diane and all of Team Honeycutt are de-
serving of this award and I couldn’t be more
proud of the example they set for our county
and beyond.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
congratulating Diane Honeycutt and all of
Team Honeycutt on receiving the 2019
Cabarrus Chamber of Commerce Volunteer
Business of the Year Award.
f
REMEMBERING NORMAN ‘‘COACH’’
POLLOM FOR HIS COMPASSION
AND LEADERSHIP
HON. RAUL RUIZ
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Mr. RUIZ. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
honor of the late Norman Pollom, a constituent
of mine who led a full and inspiring life defined
by his compassion for others.
As a young man, Mr. Pollom served his
country in the U.S. Navy during World War II.
After returning to civilian life, he brought his
leadership to the football field, where he had
a long and successful career.
Mr. Pollom was a member of the University
of Washington Huskies’ Rose Bowl-winning
team in 1960. He went on to have a decorated
career as a college coach and NFL scout,
helping to build a Los Angeles Rams team
that won seven straight Western Division
Championships. He later moved to the Buffalo
Bills, helping to draft Hall of Famers Jim Kelly,
Bruce Smith, and Andre Reed. Mr. Pollom is
widely regarded as one of the best NFL
scouts of all time.
While Mr. Pollom’s professional accomplish-
ments were impressive, his conduct off the
field deserves the highest praise. After his son
passed away from cancer, Mr. Pollom estab-
lished the Mike Pollom Scholarship Founda-
tion in his memory. His foundation helped stu-
dents from underrepresented and underprivi-
leged backgrounds go to college and pursue
their dreams. Many students’ lives have been
forever changed by his kindness and gen-
erosity.
While I did not know Mr. Pollom personally,
those who did remember a man who always
saw the best in people and encouraged others
to follow their dreams. His charm and con-
tagious laughter helped brighten every room
he was in. As a veteran, a coach, and a good
Samaritan, Mr. Pollom exemplified the spirit of
service and empathy that make our nation
great.
Mr. Pollom died as he lived: eating a burger,
drinking scotch, and watching the Alabama-
Clemson National Championship. He is sur-
vived by his wife of 34 years, Bonnie, and
their three daughters, two stepsons, six grand-
children, and three great-grandchildren. His
legacy will live on in their hearts, and in the
memories of the many friends and neighbors
whose lives he touched.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:24 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A07FE8.022 E07FEPT1
D129
Thursday, February 7, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S1031–S1149
Measures Introduced: Sixty-three bills and eight
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S. 367–429,
and S. Res. 54–61. Pages S1131–33
Measures Reported:
S. Res. 54, authorizing expenditures by the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
S. Res. 55, authorizing expenditures by the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
S. Res. 56, authorizing expenditures by the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
S. Res. 57, authorizing expenditures by the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
S. Res. 58, authorizing expenditures by the Spe-
cial Committee on Aging.
S. Res. 60, authorizing expenditures by the Com-
mittee on the Budget. Page S1130
Measures Considered:
Natural Resources Management Act—Agree-
ment: Senate began consideration of S. 47, to pro-
vide for the management of the natural resources of
the United States, after agreeing to the motion to
proceed, and taking action on the following amend-
ments proposed thereto: Pages S1031–S1117
Pending:
Murkowski/Manchin Modified Amendment No.
111, in the nature of a substitute. Page S1031
Murkowski Amendment No. 112 (to Amendment
No. 111), to modify the authorization period for the
Historically Black Colleges and Universities Historic
Preservation program. Page S1109
Rejected:
Grassley (for Lankford) Amendment No. 158 (to
Amendment No. 111), to modify the provision relat-
ing to the Land and Water Conservation Fund to
impose certain requirements on the Federal acquisi-
tion of land and to require an allocation of funds for
the deferred maintenance backlog. (By 66 yeas to 33
nays (Vote No. 18), Senate tabled the amendment.)
Pages S1101–08
Lee Amendment No. 162 (to Amendment No.
111), to modify the authorization period of the Land
and Water Conservation Fund. (By 68 yeas to 30
nays (Vote No. 19), Senate tabled the amendment.)
Page S1109
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the bill, and, in accordance with the provisions of
Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, and
pursuant to the unanimous-consent agreement of
Thursday, February 7, 2019, a vote on cloture will
occur at 5:30 p.m., on Monday, February 11, 2019.
Page S1117
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 3 p.m., on Monday,
February 11, 2019, Senate resume consideration of
the bill; and that notwithstanding the provisions of
Rule XXII, the cloture motion filed during the ses-
sion of Thursday, February 7, 2019, ripen at 5:30
p.m., and the filing deadline for first-degree amend-
ments be at 4 p.m., on Monday, February 11, 2019.
Page S1148
Barr Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consider-
ation of the nomination of William Pelham Barr, of
Virginia, to be Attorney General, Department of
Justice. Page S1117
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of S. 47, to provide for the management of the nat-
ural resources of the United States. Page S1117
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S1117
Vitiello Nomination—Agreement: A unanimous-
consent agreement was reached providing that the
nomination of Ronald D. Vitiello, of Illinois, to be
an Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, be re-
ferred to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs, and upon reporting out be re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judiciary for a pe-
riod not to exceed 60 calendar days, after which the
nomination, if still in committee, be discharged and
placed on the Executive Calendar. Page S1148
Messages from the House: Page S1129
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:09 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D07FE9.REC D07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D130 February 7, 2019
Measures Referred: Page S1129
Executive Communications: Pages S1129–30
Executive Reports of Committees: Pages S1130–31
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S1133–35
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S1135–43
Additional Statements: Pages S1127–29
Amendments Submitted: Page S1143
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S1147–48
Record Votes: Two record votes were taken today.
(Total—19) Pages S1108, S1109
Adjournment: Senate convened at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 5:09 p.m., until 3 p.m. on Monday, Feb-
ruary 11, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S1148.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: Com-
mittee adopted its rules of procedure, and ordered fa-
vorably reported an original resolution (S. Res. 54)
authorizing expenditures by the committee for the
116th Congress.
Also, Committee announced the following sub-
committee assignments:
Subcommittee on Commodities, Risk Management, and
Trade: Senators Boozman (Chair), McConnell,
Hoeven, Hyde-Smith, Perdue, Grassley, Brown, Ben-
net, Gillibrand, Smith, and Durbin.
Subcommittee on Rural Development and Energy: Sen-
ators Ernst (Chair), McConnell, Hoeven, Braun,
Thune, Fischer, Smith, Brown, Klobuchar, Bennet,
and Durbin.
Subcommittee on Conservation, Forestry, and Natural
Resources: Senators Braun (Chair), Boozman, Hyde-
Smith, Perdue, Grassley, Thune, Bennet, Leahy, Klo-
buchar, Casey, and Durbin.
Subcommittee on Nutrition, Agricultural Research, and
Specialty Crops: Senators Fischer (Chair), McConnell,
Boozman, Hoeven, Ernst, Thune, Casey, Leahy,
Brown, Klobuchar, and Gillibrand.
Subcommittee on Livestock, Marketing, and Agriculture
Security: Senators Hyde-Smith (Chair), Ernst, Braun,
Perdue, Grassley, Fischer, Gillibrand, Leahy, Klo-
buchar, Casey, and Smith.
Senators Roberts and Stabenow are ex-officio members of
each subcommittee.
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION REQUEST AND
FUTURE YEARS DEFENSE PROGRAM
Committee on Armed Services: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine United States Africa Command
and United States Southern Command in review of
the Defense Authorization Request for fiscal year
2020 and the Future Years Defense Program, after
receiving testimony from General Thomas D.
Waldhauser, USMC, Commander, United States Af-
rica Command, and Admiral Craig S. Faller, USN,
Commander, United States Southern Command,
both of the Department of Defense.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on the Budget: Committee ordered favorably
reported an original resolution (S. Res. 60) author-
izing expenditures by the Committee for the 116th
Congress.
ENERGY INNOVATION IN THE U.S.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine the status and out-
look of energy innovation in the United States, after
receiving testimony from Paul M. Dabbar, Under
Secretary of Energy for Science; Ernest J. Moniz, En-
ergy Futures Initiative, Jay Faison, ClearPath, Jason
Grumet, Bipartisan Policy Center, and Deborah L.
Wince-Smith, Council on Competitiveness, all of
Washington, D.C.; and James F. Wood, West Vir-
ginia University Energy Institute, Morgantown.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee adopted its
rules of procedure, and ordered favorably reported an
original resolution (S. Res. 56) authorizing expendi-
tures by the Committee for the 116th Congress.
Also, Committee announced the following sub-
committee assignments:
Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Transnational
Crime, Civilian Security, Democracy, Human Rights, and
Global Women’s Issues: Senators Rubio (Chair),
Portman, Cruz, Gardner, Barrasso, Cardin, Udall,
Shaheen, and Kaine.
Subcommittee on Europe and Regional Security Coopera-
tion: Senators Johnson (Chair), Barrasso, Portman,
Paul, Romney, Shaheen, Murphy, Cardin, and Coons.
Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and Inter-
national Cybersecurity Policy: Senators Gardner (Chair),
Rubio, Johnson, Isakson, Young, Markey, Coons,
Merkley, and Udall.
Subcommittee on Near East, South Asia, Central Asia,
and Counterterrorism: Senators Romney (Chair), Cruz,
Graham, Gardner, Paul, Murphy, Cardin, Shaheen,
and Kaine.
Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health Policy:
Senators Graham (Chair), Isakson, Portman, Johnson,
Cruz, Kaine, Coons, Booker, and Murphy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:09 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D07FE9.REC D07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D131
February 7, 2019
Subcommittee on State Department and USAID Man-
agement, International Operations, and Bilateral Inter-
national Development: Senators Isakson (Chair), Young,
Paul, Portman, Rubio, Booker, Markey, Merkley,
and Udall.
Subcommittee on Multilateral International Develop-
ment, Multilateral Institutions, and International Eco-
nomic, Energy, and Environmental Policy: Senators
Young (Chair), Romney, Paul, Barrasso, Graham,
Merkley, Udall, Markey, and Booker.
Senators Risch and Menendez are ex officio members of
each subcommittee.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee adopted its
rules of procedure, and ordered favorably reported
the following business items:
An original resolution (S. Res. 57) authorizing ex-
penditures by the committee for the 116th Congress;
and
The nominations of William Pelham Barr, of Vir-
ginia, to be Attorney General, and Donald W.
Washington, of Texas, to be Director of the United
States Marshals Service, both of the Department of
Justice, Bridget S. Bade, of Arizona, and Eric D.
Miller, of Washington, both to be a United States
Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, Paul B. Matey,
of New Jersey, to be United States Circuit Judge for
the Third Circuit, Eric E. Murphy, of Ohio, and
Chad A. Readler, of Ohio, both to be a United
States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, Allison
Jones Rushing, of North Carolina, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, Rossie
David Alston, Jr., to be United States District Judge
for the Eastern District of Virginia, Roy Kalman
Altman, Rodolfo Armando Ruiz II, and Rodney
Smith, each to be a United States District Judge for
the Southern District of Florida, Raul M. Arias-
Marxuach, to be United States District Judge for the
District of Puerto Rico, Thomas P. Barber, and
Wendy Williams Berger, both to be a United States
District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, J.
Campbell Barker, and Michael J. Truncale, both to
be a United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Texas, Pamela A. Barker, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of
Ohio, Kenneth D. Bell, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of North Carolina,
Jean-Paul Boulee, to be United States District Judge
for the Northern District of Georgia, Holly A.
Brady, and Damon Ray Leichty, both to be a United
States District Judge for the Northern District of In-
diana, Andrew Lynn Brasher, to be United States
District Judge for the Middle District of Alabama,
Brian C. Buescher, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Nebraska, James David
Cain, Jr., to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Louisiana, Stephen R. Clark, Sr.,
to be United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Missouri, Clifton L. Corker, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Ten-
nessee, Daniel Desmond Domenico, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Colorado,
Karin J. Immergut, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Oregon, Matthew J.
Kacsmaryk, to be United States District Judge for
the Northern District of Texas, Corey Landon Maze,
to be United States District Judge for the Northern
District of Alabama, David Steven Morales, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of Texas, Sarah Daggett Morrison, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
Ohio, Carl J. Nichols, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Columbia, Howard C. Niel-
son, Jr., to be United States District Judge for the
District of Utah, J. Nicholas Ranjan, to be United
States District Judge for the Western District of
Pennsylvania, Wendy Vitter, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana,
T. Kent Wetherell II, and Allen Cothrel Winsor,
both to be a United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Florida, Joshua Wolson, and
John Milton Younge, both to be a United States
District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsyl-
vania, Patrick R. Wyrick, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma,
M. Miller Baker, of Louisiana, and Timothy M. Reif,
of the District of Columbia, both to be a Judge of
the United States Court of International Trade, and
Richard A. Hertling, of Maryland, and Ryan T.
Holte, of Ohio, both to be a Judge of the United
States Court of Federal Claims.
Also, Committee announced the following sub-
committee assignments:
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition Policy and
Consumer Rights: Senators Lee (Chair), Grassley,
Hawley, Crapo, Blackburn, Klobuchar, Leahy,
Blumenthal, and Booker.
Subcommittee on Border Security and Immigration: Sen-
ators Cornyn (Chair), Graham, Grassley, Lee, Cruz,
Hawley, Tillis, Ernst, Kennedy, Durbin, Feinstein,
Leahy, Klobuchar, Coons, Blumenthal, Hirono, and
Booker.
Subcommittee on The Constitution: Senators Cruz
(Chair), Cornyn, Lee, Sasse, Crapo, Blackburn,
Hirono, Durbin, Whitehouse, Coons, and Harris.
Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism: Senators
Hawley (Chair), Graham, Cornyn, Cruz, Tillis, Ernst,
Kennedy, Whitehouse, Feinstein, Durbin, Klo-
buchar, Coons, and Booker.
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property: Senators Tillis
(Chair), Graham, Grassley, Cornyn, Lee, Sasse, Crapo,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:09 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D07FE9.REC D07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D132 February 7, 2019
Blackburn, Coons, Leahy, Durbin, Whitehouse,
Blumenthal, Hirono, and Harris.
Subcommittee on Oversight, Agency Action, Federal
Rights and Federal Courts: Senators Sasse (Chair),
Grassley, Tillis, Ernst, Crapo, Kennedy, Blumenthal,
Leahy, Whitehouse, Klobuchar, and Hirono.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Com-
mittee adopted its rules of procedure, and ordered fa-
vorably reported an original resolution authorizing
expenditures by the Committee for the 116th Con-
gress.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Committee adopted its
rules of procedure, and ordered favorably reported an
original resolution (S. Res. 55) authorizing expendi-
tures by the Committee for the 116th Congress.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee met in
closed session to receive a briefing on certain intel-
ligence matters from officials of the intelligence
community.
BUSINESS MEETING
Special Committee on Aging: Committee adopted its
rules of procedure, and ordered favorably reported an
original resolution (S. Res. 58) authorizing expendi-
tures by the Committee for the 116th Congress.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 75 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 1032–1107; 1 private bill, H.R.
1107; and 4 resolutions, H. Res. 109–112, were in-
troduced. Pages H1457–62
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H1164–65
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Murphy to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H1395
Recess: The House recessed at 10:15 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Pages H1396–97
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Tiffany Joslyn Juvenile Accountability Block
Grant Program Reauthorization Act of 2019: H.R.
494, amended, to amend the Omnibus Crime Con-
trol and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to reauthorize the
Juvenile Accountability Block Grant program;
Pages H1403–06
Preventing Crimes Against Veterans Act of
2019: H.R. 450, amended, to amend title 18,
United States Code, to provide an additional tool to
prevent certain frauds against veterans, by a 2⁄3 yea-
and-nay vote of 417 yeas with none voting ‘‘nay’’,
Roll No. 70; Pages H1406–09, H1416–17
Put Trafficking Victims First Act of 2019: H.R.
507, to direct the Attorney General to study issues
relating to human trafficking, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay
vote of 414 yeas to 1 nay, Roll No. 71; and
Pages H1409–13, H1417–18
Open Book on Equal Access to Justice Act: H.R.
752, to amend titles 5 and 28, United States Code,
to require the maintenance of databases on awards of
fees and other expenses to prevailing parties in cer-
tain administrative proceedings and court cases to
which the United States is a party. Pages H1413–15
Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act: The House
considered H.R. 840, to amend title 38, United
States Code, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to provide child care assistance to veterans re-
ceiving certain medical services provided by the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs. Consideration is ex-
pected to resume tomorrow, February 8th.
Pages H1418–31
Pursuant to the Rule, it shall be in order to con-
sider as an original bill for the purpose of amend-
ment under the five-minute rule an amendment in
the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of
Rules Committee Print 116–3. Pages H1421–22
Agreed to:
Brindisi amendment (No. 1 printed in H. Rept.
116–6) that clarifies that veterans who receive cov-
ered health care services at VA community-based
out-patient clinics are eligible for child care assist-
ance; Page H1422
Radewagen amendment (No. 2 printed in H.
Rept. 116–6) that clarifies that the child care benefit
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:09 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D07FE9.REC D07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D133
February 7, 2019
be made available for veterans while they are trav-
eling to or attending VA appointments and not at
any other time; Pages H1423–24
Rose (NY) amendment (No. 3 printed in H.
Rept. 116–6) that includes substance or drug abuse
counseling in the definition of ‘‘covered health care
services’’; Page H1424
Lee (NV) amendment (No. 5 printed in H. Rept.
116–6) that specifies that all Vet Centers, not just
Vet Centers located within a physical area in which
VA has jurisdiction, would also be a place where
veterans could be eligible for no-cost child care;
Page H1426
Barr amendment (No. 6 printed in H. Rept.
116–6) that require a study of the effects of child
care assistance provided under section 2 of the un-
derlying bill and on compliance with treatment pro-
tocols; Pages H1426–27
Cisneros amendment (No. 7 printed in H. Rept.
116–6) that requires the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
to conduct a feasibility study to determine how the
Department of Veterans Affairs could provide child
care assistance for veterans who receive covered
health care services from non-Department facilities;
Pages H1427–28
Cisneros amendment (No. 8 printed in H. Rept.
116–6) that include intensive health care services re-
lated to physical therapy for a service-connected dis-
ability in the definition of ‘‘covered health care serv-
ices’’; Page H1428
Rodney Davis (IL) amendment (No. 9 printed in
H. Rept. 116–6) that prevents interpretation by the
VA that only one of the two parents could be con-
sidered the primary caretaker; Pages H1428–29
Sablan amendment (No. 10 printed in H. Rept.
116–6) that clarifies that veterans who receive tele-
mental health services furnished by the Department
as opposed to in-person mental health services would
be eligible for child care assistance authorized under
the bill; and Pages H1429–39
Cloud amendment (No. 11 printed in H. Rept.
116–6) that directs the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs (VA) to conduct an annual report to Congress
on its processing system for child care payments to
veterans and private care providers; moreover, the
VA must identify the number of unprocessed child
care claims that have been left unresolved in its re-
port. Pages H1430–31
Proceedings Postponed:
Bergman amendment (No. 4 printed in H. Rept.
116–6) that seeks to prohibit the VA from con-
structing new structures to be used as childcare cen-
ters. Pages H1424–26
H. Res. 105, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 840) and adoption of the resolution
(H. Res. 86) was agreed to by a yea-and-nay vote of
225 yeas to 193 nays, Roll No. 69, after the pre-
vious question was ordered by a yea-and-nay vote of
227 yeas to 189 nays, Roll No. 68. Pursuant to sec-
tion 2 of H. Res. 105, H. Res. 86 was agreed to.
Pages H1399–H1403, H1415–16, H1418
Clerk to Correct Engrossment: Agreed by unani-
mous consent that in the engrossment of H.R. 494,
the Clerk be directed to make the change placed at
the desk. Page H1431
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H1399.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Four yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H1415–17, H1416, H1416–17, and
H1417–18. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:52 p.m.
Committee Meetings
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING
Committee on Agriculture: Full Committee held an or-
ganizational meeting. The Committee adopted its
Rules for the 116th Congress and Committee Staff
Assignments, without amendment.
ENERGY TRENDS AND OUTLOOK
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Energy
and Water Development, and Related Agencies held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Energy Trends and Outlook’’.
Testimony was heard from Linda Capuano, Adminis-
trator, Energy Information Administration; and pub-
lic witnesses.
OFFICE OF CONGRESSIONAL WORKPLACE
RIGHTS
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Legisla-
tive Branch held a hearing entitled ‘‘Office of Con-
gressional Workplace Rights’’. Testimony was heard
from Susan Tsui Grundmann, Executive Director,
Office of Congressional Workplace Rights.
OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Legisla-
tive Branch held a hearing entitled ‘‘Open World
Leadership Center’’. Testimony was heard from Jane
Sargus, Executive Director, Open World Leadership
Center.
QUALITY OF LIFE IN THE MILITARY
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Mili-
tary Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related
Agencies held a hearing entitled ‘‘Quality of Life in
the Military’’. Testimony was heard from Sergeant
Major Daniel A. Dailey, Sergeant Major of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:09 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D07FE9.REC D07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D134 February 7, 2019
Army, U.S. Army; Sergeant Major Ronald L. Green,
Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps, U.S. Marine
Corps; Master Chief Petty Officer Russell Smith,
Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy, U.S. Navy;
and Chief Master Sergeant Kaleth O. Wright, Chief
Master Sergeant of the Air Force, U.S. Air Force.
INVESTING IN AMERICA’S ECONOMIC AND
NATIONAL SECURITY
Committee on the Budget: Full Committee held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Investing in America’s Economic and
National Security’’. Testimony was heard from pub-
lic witnesses.
GRADUALLY RAISING THE MINIMUM
WAGE TO $15: GOOD FOR WORKERS,
GOOD FOR BUSINESSES, AND GOOD FOR
THE ECONOMY
Committee on Education and Labor: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Gradually Raising the Min-
imum Wage to $15: Good for Workers, Good for
Businesses, and Good for the Economy’’. Testimony
was heard from Paul A. Brodeur, State Representa-
tive, 32nd Middlesex District, Commonwealth of
Massachusetts House of Representatives; and public
witnesses.
EXAMINING THE FAILURES OF THE
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION’S INHUMANE
FAMILY SEPARATION POLICY
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations held a hearing entitled
‘‘Examining the Failures of the Trump Administra-
tion’s Inhumane Family Separation Policy’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Kathryn A. Larin, Director,
Education, Workforce, and Income Security, Govern-
ment Accountability Office; Rebecca Gambler, Di-
rector Homeland Security and Justice, Government
Accountability Office; Ann Maxwell, Assistant In-
spector General for Evaluation and Inspections, Of-
fice of Evaluation and Inspections, Office of the In-
spector General, Department of Health and Human
Services; Commander Jonathan White, U.S. Public
Health Service Commissioned Corps, Department of
Health and Human Services; and public witnesses.
PRESERVING AN OPEN INTERNET FOR
CONSUMERS, SMALL BUSINESSES, AND
FREE SPEECH
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Communications and Technology held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Preserving an Open Internet for Consumers,
Small Businesses, and Free Speech’’. Testimony was
heard from public witnesses.
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING
Committee on House Administration: Full Committee
held an organizational meeting. The Committee
adopted its Rules for the 116th Congress, without
amendment.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
markup on a resolution authorizing issuance of a
subpoena to Acting Attorney General Matthew G.
Whitaker to secure his appearance and testimony at
the hearing of the Committee regarding oversight of
the U.S. Department of Justice; and H.R. 948, the
‘‘No Oil Producing and Exporting Cartels Act of
2019’’. A resolution authorizing issuance of a sub-
poena to Acting Attorney General Matthew G.
Whitaker to secure his appearance and testimony at
the hearing of the Committee regarding oversight of
the U.S. Department of Justice and H.R. 948 were
ordered reported, without amendment.
HEALTHY OCEANS AND HEALTHY
ECONOMIES: THE STATE OF OUR OCEANS
IN THE 21ST CENTURY
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on
Water, Oceans, and Wildlife held a hearing entitled
‘‘Healthy Oceans and Healthy Economies: The State
of Our Oceans in the 21st Century’’. Testimony was
heard from public witnesses.
EXPLORING CHALLENGES AND
OPPORTUNITIES OF UNDERSERVED
BUSINESSES IN THE 21ST CENTURY
Committee on Small Business: Subcommittee on Eco-
nomic Growth, Tax, and Capital Access held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Exploring Challenges and Opportuni-
ties of Underserved Businesses in the 21st Century’’.
Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING; THE COST
OF DOING NOTHING: WHY INVESTING IN
OUR NATION’S INFRASTRUCTURE
CANNOT WAIT
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Full
Committee held an organizational meeting; and a
hearing entitled ‘‘The Cost of Doing Nothing: Why
Investing in Our Nation’s Infrastructure Cannot
Wait’’. The Committee adopted its Rules for the
116th Congress, Chair and Ranking Members of the
Subcommittees, and Subcommittee Rosters. Testi-
mony was heard from public witnesses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:09 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D07FE9.REC D07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D135
February 7, 2019
LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS AND TAX LAW
RELATED TO PRESIDENTIAL AND
VICE–PRESIDENTIAL TAX RETURNS
Committee on Ways and Means: Subcommittee on
Oversight held a hearing entitled ‘‘Legislative Pro-
posals and Tax Law Related to Presidential and
Vice-Presidential Tax Returns’’. Testimony was
heard from public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY,
FEBRUARY 8, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Oversight of the U.S. Department of Justice’’,
9:30 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:09 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D07FE9.REC D07FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D136 February 7, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
3 p.m., Monday, February 11
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will resume consideration
of S. 47, Natural Resources Management Act, and vote
on the motion to invoke cloture on the bill at 5:30 p.m.
The filing deadline for first-degree amendments to the
bill is at 4 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
9 a.m., Friday, February 8
House Chamber
Program for Friday: Complete consideration of H.R.
840—Veterans’ Access to Child Care Act.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Cline, Ben, Va., E148
Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E144
Garamendi, John, Calif., E147
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E143
Griffith, H. Morgan, Va., E143
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E144, E145
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E144, E145, E145, E146, E147,
E148
Joyce, David P., Ohio, E148
Lipinski, Daniel, Ill., E143
Meuser, Daniel, Pa., E146, E148
Mitchell, Paul, Mich., E143
Newhouse, Dan, Wash., E146
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E145
Posey, Bill, Fla., E147
Richmond, Cedric L., La., E146
Ruiz, Raul, Calif., E149
Sensenbrenner, F. James, Jr., Wisc., E148
Velázquez, Nydia M., N.Y., E144
Waltz, Michael, Fla., E145
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:09 Feb 08, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D07FE9.REC D07FEPT1
