Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S5207
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JULY 31, 2019 No. 130
House of Representatives
The House was not in session today. Its next meeting will be held on Friday, August 2, 2019, at 11 a.m.
Senate
WEDNESDAY, JULY 31, 2019
The Senate met at 9:30 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, who laid the foundation
of the Earth, the Heavens are the
works of Your hands. You are the same
yesterday, today, and forever, and
Your years have no end.
Today, use our Senators as they
serve You with gladness and awe. May
they make pleasing You their first pri-
ority. Lord, give them Your guidance
so that they will behave wisely, striv-
ing to have a conscience void of offense
toward You and humanity. May they
never forget all Your blessings and ben-
efits.
We pray in Your loving Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak in
morning business for 1 minute.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
there is too much secrecy in drug pric-
ing, particularly in who benefits from
rebates. Not all rebates are created
equal in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Pro-
gram.
Rebate obligations for brand-name
drugs are currently based on both
brand-name and authorized generic
drug sales. That means brand-name
drug manufacturers pay less in rebate
obligations.
The bipartisan legislation I intro-
duced with Senator WYDEN fixes this.
It ensures that brand-name drug manu-
facturers pay—like common sense
ought to dictate—brand-name rebates.
This reduces gaming in the system to
make sure authorized generics come to
market for a purpose related to patient
access, not just to lower brand-name
rebate obligations.
Transparency brings accountability,
and with transparency and account-
ability, the market works better, com-
petition works better, and in the end,
gets the price of drugs down.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
yesterday the Senate took a number of
steps forward on our considerable to-do
list for the week. We confirmed four
well-qualified jurists who are now our
country’s newest district court judges
and voted to advance the nominations
of 10 more—10. That is what you call
big progress for the Federal Judiciary.
Today, we are going to continue mov-
ing these nominations forward.
For too long, thoroughly
uncontroversial judicial nominees just
like these have been held up and de-
layed by our Democratic colleagues,
even when the vacancy qualifies as a
judicial emergency.
Uncontroversial district judges used
to be confirmed promptly in big groups
by voice vote. These days, in a kind of
protest theater, our colleagues across
the aisle usually insist that we hold a
cloture vote and then a rollcall con-
firmation vote on each one. But we are
getting the President’s impressive
nominees on the job one way or an-
other, and we will continue doing just
that.
Our work doesn’t stop there. The ad-
ministration remains in need of a full
complement of leaders at the Pentagon
and in the diplomatic corps. Last
night, we voted to confirm David
Norquist, the President’s pick to serve
as No. 2 at the Pentagon under our new
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.000 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5208 July 31, 2019
Secretary of Defense, Mark Esper. We
also voted to advance the nomination
of Ambassador Kelly Craft, a very im-
pressive individual, to serve in the crit-
ical role of U.N. Ambassador.
Ms. Craft is a fellow product of the
Bluegrass State. She has already made
Kentucky and the Nation proud
through significant public service, in-
cluding as an alternate delegate to the
United Nations and, most recently, as
Ambassador to Canada.
In each of these cases, this impres-
sive nominee earned an unopposed con-
firmation, and, in each case, she repaid
the Senate’s confidence by skillfully
and effectively advocating for the in-
terests of the United States on the
international stage. During her tenure
as Ambassador to Canada, America’s
relationship with our northern neigh-
bor was tested. A number of chal-
lenging policy hurdles threatened to
trip up progress on several important
issues, including trade negotiations,
but, by all accounts, Ambassador
Craft’s involvement led to greater co-
operation.
She worked on finalizing the U.S.-
Mexico-Canada Agreement, encouraged
cross-border participation in joint
sanctions efforts, and helped more
Americans do business in Canada. As
she stands in this new role, she brings
the ringing endorsements of peers and
counterparts she engaged all along the
way.
The Premier of Ontario and a former
Canadian Ambassador to the United
States has said: ‘‘She’s done the job
very well.’’
And another quote: ‘‘Every Premier I
know thinks the world of her. . . . She
really proved herself over some tough
times.’’
Our partners to the north have a
healthy respect for the hard work and
qualifications of Ambassador Kelly
Craft, and so does the Senate. Last
week, even in this contentious mo-
ment, a wide bipartisan majority of our
colleagues on the Foreign Relations
Committee voted to recommend her
nomination to be U.N. Ambassador fa-
vorably here to the floor, and before we
adjourn this week, we will confirm her.
f
BIPARTISAN BUDGET ACT OF 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
the Senate needs to pass the bipartisan
budget agreement secured by the ad-
ministration with Speaker PELOSI. The
deal we have in front of us is a product
of extensive negotiations between
President Trump’s team and the Demo-
cratic House. I am confident it is not
exactly the legislation that either side
of the aisle would have written if one
party held the White House, the House,
and had 60 votes in the Senate. That is
what we call divided government, but I
am equally confident that this is a deal
that every one of my colleagues should
support when we vote on it in the near
future.
This government funding agreement
is the right deal for our national de-
fense. It is the right deal because it en-
sures the United States maintains its
full faith and credit. It is the right deal
because it brings predictability and
stability through 2020 and moves to-
ward restoring regular appropriations.
It is the right deal because it secures
these priorities without partisan poi-
son pill riders that would take us back-
ward on the issue of protecting human
life and curtail central Presidential au-
thorities.
The Republicans’ No. 1 priority was
investing in our national defense. After
8 years of neglect and atrophy under
the Obama administration, Congress
has worked hand-in-hand with the
Trump administration to begin writing
a new chapter. More of the resources
our Armed Forces need, more flexi-
bility for commanders, more cutting-
edge tools for U.S. servicemembers,
and more investments in moderniza-
tion will not only rebuild the military
that we need today but set us on the
trajectory we need to be on to secure
our future.
All in all, I don’t think any Senators
are actually rooting for a destabilizing
continuing resolution. I certainly don’t
think any Senators are rooting for a
debt limit crisis that could put our full
faith and credit at risk. I believe that
every one of our colleagues wants this
agreement to pass. That means every
one of our colleagues should actually
vote for it.
The House has passed this deal. The
President is ready and eager to sign it.
It is our turn to do our job.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
f
BIPARTISAN BUDGET ACT OF 2019
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, over 2
weeks ago, the four congressional lead-
ers in the White House reached an
agreement to raise the budget caps and
extend the debt ceiling. The House has
already passed the legislation that
codifies the agreement into law. The
President supports it. He is even mak-
ing calls—evidently, from press re-
ports—asking Republican colleagues to
support it. So the last piece of the puz-
zle here is the Senate.
Speaking for the minority, Demo-
crats have no objection to voting on
the budget caps deal as soon as pos-
sible. I say to my friend the majority
leader: Why don’t we vote on the caps
deal this morning and send it to the
President’s desk? There is no need to
wait until later in the afternoon today,
tonight, or tomorrow to get this done.
Democrats are ready to pass it right
now if the majority leader would call it
up for a vote.
f
CHINA
Mr. SCHUMER. As trade negotia-
tions with China continue this week, I
want to press the President again to
stay tough and hold out for the best
possible deal. If China is unwilling to
make significant reforms to its eco-
nomic model, President Trump must be
prepared to walk away.
I believe the President’s instincts on
China are right. I have not been afraid
to say so, despite our vast political and
moral disagreements. But if we are
going to be successful in these negotia-
tions, it will be up to President
Trump—no one else—to keep the pres-
sure on Chinese leaders this week.
There are a few things he can do. The
most significant point of emphasis for
the President should be Huawei, the
Chinese telecom giant. China has re-
sponded to the administration’s justi-
fied restrictions on Huawei, unlike any
other action the President has taken.
It is our greatest source of leverage.
President Trump, hold tough on
Huawei. Don’t let there be giant loop-
holes.
I am told that under the purported
proposal being talked about, 80 percent
of Huawei’s products could still be sold
to us. If we have a total boycott of
Huawei, then China will beg us to come
to the table and make real concessions.
It is the best leverage we have—even
better than the tariffs. China wants
Huawei to dominate the world. They
will find a way to do it unless we are
tough as can be.
I say to President Trump: I know
these multinational corporations are
pressuring you to cut a quick deal. The
President should not listen to these big
corporations who want him to cut a
deal quickly. Many of these same cor-
porations are the ones that have
shipped jobs overseas through the last
decades. They are the ones that took
jobs away from American workers and
moved them to China. I understand
those corporate executives. They are
supposed to be totally subservient to
their shareholders. Their shareholders
say: Whatever you have to do to bring
the price up, do it.
That hurts American workers. It
hurts American security. It hurts the
American economy, especially when it
comes to Huawei.
President Trump, don’t listen to the
siren call of those same corporations
that have created part of the problem
with China to now get you to back off.
Yes, they will have a little pain. They
have made billions at large from deal-
ing with China and letting China get
away with stuff like taking jobs away
from the United States into much
lower paid, lower standard jobs in
China.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.002 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5209
July 31, 2019
Trade negotiations with China are
far too important to the future of
American business and American work-
ers to sacrifice just because a handful
of American corporations are worried
about their quarterly profits. Their
quarterly profits are nothing compared
to America maintaining its techno-
logical dominance, its technological
superiority that China keeps trying to
steal from us, in some ways legitimate,
in many ways not.
Another point of emphasis for the
President’s team—this is one the Presi-
dent cares less about, but that is OK—
is China’s human rights record. China
released a new policy outlining the use
of force against Hong Kong’s protest.
Its military built up forces along the
border. We have seen this movie before
at Tiananmen. It was a horror movie—
one that resulted in hundreds, if not
thousands, of unarmed Chinese citizens
being mercilessly slaughtered by their
own Army under the direction of the
Chinese Communist Party. We cannot
have a sequel to this atrocity. The ad-
ministration should push back against
China’s militarism and stand up for the
autonomy and democratic rights of
Hong Kong citizens.
I have read some of these columns
where they say: Can’t we get along? We
can’t get along because, first, China
doesn’t play fair and has stolen tril-
lions of dollars and millions of jobs
from America and seeks to keep doing
it. They have been duping our Presi-
dents, pushing them around, making
agreements, and breaking them. Sec-
ond, we can’t get along with China be-
cause of what it does to its citizens—
the Uighurs in Western China and now
the citizens of Hong Kong.
What we have seen with China is that
when we are tough and strong, they
back off. When we show any glimmer of
weakness—as we are showing in float-
ing a deal, a lessening of the restric-
tions on Huawei—they take advantage.
Let me say this to all of those in this
administration who are urging the
President to back off on Huawei and let
them buy some of our products. There
is a bipartisan group here in this Sen-
ate who will work very hard to prevent
that from happening legislatively. The
most likely vehicle is the NDAA. I
think we will get broad support from
Democrats and Republicans in the
House and Senate. So to those in the
administration who are trying to back
off, don’t even try it.
f
ELECTION SECURITY
Mr. SCHUMER. Looking back on this
work period, it is a shame that the
Senate, once again, has made no
progress—none—on the issue of elec-
tion security.
Only a week ago, Special Counsel
Mueller called Russia interference one
of the greatest threats to democracy he
has seen in his career, a threat that he
said continues ‘‘as we sit here.’’
Despite Mueller’s warning—a warn-
ing echoed by prominent Republicans,
Trump appointees, such as FBI Direc-
tor Wray, Director Coats, and our en-
tire Senate Intelligence Committee led
by RICHARD BURR, a colleague of ours—
Leader MCCONNELL has not brought
election security to the floor. In fact,
he has blocked Democratic requests for
a debate on election security, dis-
missing our ideas as a ‘‘partisan wish
list.’’ That is political rhetoric to avoid
a problem that shouldn’t be partisan at
all.
Using paper ballots is not partisan.
Making sure that our election ma-
chines are safe from hacking is not par-
tisan. Giving the States resources to
better manage their elections is not
partisan. That is American. Our elec-
tions are sacrosanct and these are com-
monsense, widely agreed-upon reforms
that will make our elections safer, par-
ticularly in this dangerous new world
where powers that have malice toward
the United States—Russia, China, Iran,
and North Korea—can use new tech-
nology to reach into our election struc-
ture.
This is not 1940 or even 2005. We need
to strengthen our election security,
and it should not be a partisan issue.
When Leader MCCONNELL calls it a par-
tisan issue, he is ducking to avoid it
for reasons unknown to almost any-
body.
Recent Republican opposition to
election security has been dis-
appointing. I say to my Republican col-
leagues: Where are you? Why aren’t
you telling the Republican leader that
we ought to do something? Every one
of our Republicans is complicit when
Leader MCCONNELL blocks election se-
curity because they could join with us.
If they began to join with us, my guess
is that Leader MCCONNELL might put
some legislation on the floor. We want
to debate it. We want to discuss it.
Leader MCCONNELL and our Republican
colleagues may not exactly agree with
our ideas—although many are bipar-
tisan—but we should at least bring
things to the floor, discuss them, and
get something done. Unfortunately, we
don’t see much action.
It was precisely a year ago that the
Democrats last sought to secure fund-
ing for election security when the Sen-
ate Republicans voted down our
amendments. Unfortunately, it appears
that Leader MCCONNELL will not take
action before the August work period.
Yet I assure the American people and
Leader MCCONNELL that this issue is
not going away. The Democrats will
press for election security when we re-
turn and again when the Senate de-
bates appropriations bills.
This is about protecting the
wellspring of our democracy, the vital-
ity of our democracy, and the sac-
rosanct nature of our democracy. To
call it political demeans everything.
Young men and young women from
Bunker Hill on—for hundreds of
years—have died to protect our elec-
tions. You have to protect them in a
different way now with there being
technology and cyber threats, but the
idea of protecting them burns just as
brightly in the American heart, and
Leader MCCONNELL is somehow imper-
vious to all of that.
f
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, on cli-
mate, I am pleased to share that the
Senate Committee on Environment and
Public Works did something amazing
and groundbreaking yesterday. It
passed the first ever climate title in a
transportation reauthorization bill.
Thanks to the Senate Democrats on
the committee and to particularly
Ranking Member CARPER’s hard work,
the highway bill actually includes $10
billion that will be dedicated to cli-
mate-focused programs and policies in
order to reduce emissions and improve
the resiliency of our transportation in-
frastructure to climate change and
natural disasters. It includes funds for
States to reduce carbon emissions, sup-
port for electric and alternative-fuel
vehicles, reductions in emissions from
ports and roadways, and investments
in climate-resistant infrastructure.
Less than a year ago, I said, in mov-
ing forward, the Democrats would de-
mand that climate change be addressed
in any infrastructure bill. This bill,
with its $10 billion investment in cli-
mate, is a product of that demand. This
will be the first time serious money
has been included in an infrastructure
package to fight climate change, but it
certainly will not be the last.
The clock is ticking when it comes to
climate change. We need to make
progress whenever we can and as quick-
ly as we can. If the Republican leader
will not bring legislation to the floor,
the Democrats will be prepared to take
the lead and fight for climate progress
at every opportunity we get. That is
precisely what this $10 billion climate
investment in the highway bill rep-
resents. Again, I thank Senator CAR-
PER for his leadership, his skill, and his
persistence in getting it done.
Protecting our country and the world
from the threat of climate change is no
less than a moral obligation. When we
return from the recess, the Democrats
will continue to look for more opportu-
nities to make progress on climate
change.
f
HEALTHCARE
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, fi-
nally, during the debate last night,
when it came to healthcare, half of the
Democratic Presidential field engaged
in a healthy debate, a great deal of
which was focused on the No. 1 issue to
American voters—healthcare.
Despite different policy proposals,
the debate shows that the Democratic
Party is completely united on the idea
of universal healthcare coverage as
well as on the need to lower the costs
and improve the quality of healthcare
for every American. Yet one point that
should have been made during the de-
bate but unfortunately wasn’t should
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.003 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5210 July 31, 2019
have been the fact that the Repub-
licans are actively sabotaging our cur-
rent healthcare system.
Whether you are one of the more
moderate Members on healthcare or
are one of the ones who have a more
broad, more sweeping proposal, it is
the difference between the parties. Yet
those differences almost pale compared
to the differences between every Demo-
crat on that platform and the Repub-
licans, because the Republicans are
seeking to undo healthcare, to sabo-
tage healthcare, and to have fewer peo-
ple covered. As a result of their ideas,
thoughts, and lawsuits, costs are going
up.
There is a huge gap between the par-
ties on healthcare, and I am glad we
are having an active debate on how to
move forward to cover more people and
have it cost less. While we are doing
that, the Trump administration is
doing the opposite. It is expanding
junk insurance plans, reducing funds to
help Americans locate and sign up for
the right insurance, and ending cost-
sharing payments that help low-income
families afford care.
The congressional Republicans have
tried and have, thankfully, failed to re-
peal the Affordable Care Act. The coup
de grace, of course, is the fact that now
the Trump administration—with the
support of many Republican attorneys
general and the complicity of just
about every Member of the Senate on
the Republican side—is supporting a
lawsuit that would invalidate the Af-
fordable Care Act entirely, which
would kick tens of millions off of their
insurance and eliminate the protec-
tions for preexisting conditions for the
over 100 million Americans who have
those preexisting conditions, and just
about every Republican is going along
with that.
The difference in the 2020 elections
between the Democrats and the Repub-
licans on healthcare will be apparent
and glaring, and it will far and away
subsume any differences we may have
on policy.
I yield the floor.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session and resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Mark T. Pitt-
man, of Texas, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Northern District of
Texas.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). The Senator from Colorado.
BLM HEADQUARTERS RELOCATION
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, sev-
eral years back, at a committee hear-
ing of the Energy and Natural Re-
sources Committee, Director Neil
Kornze of the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment under the Obama administration
was testifying before our committee on
a regulation that was coming out of
the BLM that most, if not all, of the
county commissioners and various or-
ganizations in Colorado were opposed
to. In fact, the opposition was so uni-
form in Colorado and throughout the
West that I couldn’t understand why
the BLM was going forward with that
regulation.
Out of frustration, at one point dur-
ing the committee hearing, I said: Di-
rector Kornze, if you were just located
in the West, if you were just out west,
you would understand why this rule is
a bad idea.
The response at the time, several
years ago, was kind of a chuckle and a
laugh, and, yes, well, we should talk
about that.
It planted the seeds of an idea that
actually was made into reality just
last week with the announcement that
the headquarters of the Bureau of Land
Management will be moving out west
and, indeed, to Grand Junction, CO.
This announcement was made on
July 16, and I commend the efforts of
Secretary Bernhardt and the Depart-
ment of the Interior for listening to
the people of the West.
This isn’t a Republican issue. This
isn’t a partisan issue. In fact, this idea
to move the BLM headquarters out to
the land that it regulates and oversees
has been embraced by Democrats and
Republicans across Colorado and
throughout the West.
They also talked about their inten-
tion in this announcement to reorga-
nize the Bureau of Land Management
and to relocate a significant number of
headquarters jobs throughout the
West, not just in Grand Junction but in
Lakewood, CO, in Montana, in Utah,
and beyond.
I think it is important to talk about
the reasons why it makes so much
sense to have this particular Agency
located in Colorado, in the West.
Look at this map here. The red on
this map is a combination of both min-
eral rights and surface lands. You can
see the red. Forty-seven percent of all
the land out west is where 93 percent of
all Federal land is located. The Federal
Government owns roughly 47 percent of
this land out west. It is where 93 per-
cent of the Federal land is located.
Think about that. Ninety-three percent
of all Federal land, here in the red,
makes up 47 percent of the land owner-
ship in the West.
Nationwide, the Bureau of Land Man-
agement is responsible for managing
approximately 700 million acres of Fed-
eral mineral estates located under-
ground. That is the entire country, of
course, but 245 million acres are sur-
face acres, or Federal surface lands. All
but 100,000 acres of those surface
acres—all but 100,000 of those acres—
are west of the Mississippi River, and
located predominantly in the 11 west-
ernmost States and Alaska.
One of the frustrations I hear from
local and county officials and environ-
mental activists and farmers and
ranchers is that when they deal with
their BLM local field office, they seem
to have a very good experience that
people are working together to solve
problems, and they like the conversa-
tions they have and the cooperation
they are getting from the local and re-
gional offices. But something happens
when that decision-making process
then moves to Washington, DC. Some-
thing happens, and all of a sudden the
conversation and communication can
stop. It changes. All of a sudden, the
outcomes aren’t what they thought
they would be based on those local,
productive conversations.
We have seen directives and manage-
ment decisions coming more from
Washington, DC, lately, instead of from
the local field offices, where people
know their communities best and un-
derstand the land best. So what hap-
pens is that the deep pockets and spe-
cial interests in Washington often
carry the day, make the convincing ar-
guments, thousands of miles removed
from where the Federal and the public
land actually is.
That is why it is important to have
this BLM move. It changes that. In-
stead of having special interests in
Washington, in a community that has
none of these public lands located in it,
you are able to make that decision
right here, in Colorado, surrounded by
public lands, in a community that is
defined by the public lands that they
oversee.
I believe government is going to
work better when it is local, when local
decision makers are closest to the land
that the decisions they are making af-
fect the most. That is why this deci-
sion is so important—whether it is
issues of withdrawal of locatable min-
erals or the reduction of grazing per-
mits; the concept of multiple use over
time; the idea that we can use this land
for preservation, conservation, or that
we can use it for energy development,
or that we can use it for grazing. That
has somehow fallen out of favor.
My friend Greg Walcher, who is a
former Senate staffer for Senator Arm-
strong, who used to head the Colorado
Department of Natural Resources,
wrote an op-ed about this point, point-
ing out that the multiple-use mandate
includes managing 18,000 grazing per-
mits, 220 wilderness areas, 27 national
monuments, 600 national conservation
areas, 200,000 miles of streams, 2,000
miles of wild and scenic rivers, 6,000
miles of national scenic trails, 63,000
oil and gas wells, 25,000 mines, and 50
million acres of forests.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.005 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5211
July 31, 2019
Not a square inch of that is in Wash-
ington, DC. It is in the 12 Western
States: Alaska, Arizona, California,
Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada,
New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Wash-
ington, and Wyoming. It has never
made sense for leadership to work 2,000
miles away from these States, insu-
lated by the inevitably different per-
spectives of life inside the beltway.
That is what is so important about this
decision.
When you don’t live in the commu-
nities that are among and surrounded
by these lands, it is easy to make deci-
sions that close off energy development
or close cattle ranches and grazing op-
portunities, because the consequences
are felt out west instead of in Wash-
ington, DC.
But this strong push by westerners—
SCOTT TIPTON, myself, Secretary Zinke,
and others—began the conversation
about modernization and the organiza-
tional structure for the next 100 years
of the Bureau of Land Management,
and I appreciate Secretary Bernhardt’s
decision to make this happen.
Grand Junction, where the new BLM
will be located, is an incredibly beau-
tiful place, with people who are so sup-
portive of this decision—a community
that knows that when these decision
makers are in their community, they
are not going to have to drive hours or
take a flight for 4 hours out of Wash-
ington to see BLM lands. Just to look
out the window and to see the lands
they manage will result in better deci-
sion making.
Mesa County, where Grand Junction
is located, is the county seat. It is 73
percent Federal land, 46 percent of
which is managed by the BLM. In
total, the BLM manages 8.3 million
acres of surface in Colorado and 27 mil-
lion acres of Federal mineral estates in
Colorado.
But we are not the only State that
will benefit, obviously. There are a lot
of other positions that will be moving
across the country to the State and to
the location where those jobs are a best
fit. It makes sense.
I know sometimes people think that
Washington is the only place where
people can do government’s work or
where people can find the kind of
skilled workforce. That is one of the
arguments that has actually been made
against the BLM move—that only
Washington has the skilled workforce
able to do these jobs.
Look, I am sorry, if you don’t want
to live in the counties and commu-
nities surrounded by public lands.
Then, why are you working for a public
land management agency?
So I am excited about this. I thank
the good people with the Secretary of
the Interior who made this decision
happen and the community of Grand
Junction, which supported this from
day one.
In the same op-ed that Mr. Walcher
wrote, he opened with a quote and said
this: ‘‘There is something more power-
ful than the brute force of bayonets: It
is the idea whose time has come.’’
That is where we have finally arrived
today, an idea whose time has come,
locating the decision makers who af-
fect our western communities the most
out in the western United States.
I thank the Presiding Officer for the
opportunity to talk about this deci-
sion. I commend the Secretary of the
Interior for doing what is right by our
public lands, and I will continue to
stand up for public lands throughout
this process.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE
REAUTHORIZATION ACT
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, an un-
usual event occurred yesterday in the
Environment and Public Works Com-
mittee—a major bill reauthorizing
America’s transportation infrastruc-
ture for 5 years passed the committee
by a 21-to-0 vote. That is the way we
should be able to operate on a subject
that I think enjoys universal support
in the Senate; that is, making sure the
Federal partnership for infrastructure
is not only reauthorized but also in-
creased because we know the infra-
structure needs of this country have
only gotten more challenging.
I want to start by complimenting the
leadership of the Environment and
Public Works Committee. Chairman
BARRASSO and Ranking Member CAR-
PER worked very closely together on
this bill, including the input of all
members of the committee as well as
Members of the Senate.
The Subcommittee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure, chaired by
Senator CAPITO, and I am the ranking
Democrat on the committee, also
worked very well in developing this
Transportation Infrastructure Reau-
thorization Act.
As I pointed out originally, the needs
are urgent, and the leadership of the
committee recognized that. In every
one of our States, we know the unmet
needs of infrastructure, maintaining
our existing infrastructure, and replac-
ing our bridges that are falling down,
dealing with our transit systems, deal-
ing with the needs to deal with conges-
tion.
We know there are so many issues
out there, and it is important for us to
give a clear signal that we intend to
have a long-term reauthorization, 5
years, so there is predictability, so our
States and local governments know
that these projects that require longer
term planning will have a Federal part-
ner that is available and reliable.
It also increases the funding, the
first year by 10 percent and increases it
by certain percentages thereafter, rec-
ognizing we need to do more. There are
several new initiatives building on ex-
isting programs that I think are wor-
thy of mentioning.
Let me just go over a few of the real
highlights of this infrastructure bill.
First, it has a climate change title.
This is the first time we have done
this—a separate title to deal with the
realities of climate change.
I need only remind my colleagues of
what happened this month in Maryland
when we had 4 inches of rain that
flooded Maryland roads. We have to
deal with the realities. We have to deal
with resiliency and adaptation in re-
gard to what is happening with climate
change. This title deals with that.
Transportation is the leading source
of greenhouse gas emissions. We need
infrastructure that deals with the re-
alities of reducing carbon emissions.
This title provides for financial help
for building an infrastructure for elec-
tric and alternative fuel vehicles. That
is a reality of consumer desire as well
as dealing with the realities of climate
change.
We give local discretion for funds to
initiate emission reduction strategies.
That could include simple things like
providing alternatives for the use of
our cars for people who want to walk
and bike rather than having to get into
their cars. It is a major commitment
for which we are going to provide re-
sources, in partnership with local gov-
ernments, to deal with the realities of
our responsibility in the transpor-
tation sector to reduce carbon emis-
sions.
We also deal with the realities of con-
gestion. I can tell the Presiding Offi-
cer, as I told my colleagues on the En-
vironment and Public Works Com-
mittee, that I face it every day twice a
day. I commute from Baltimore here to
work and have to deal with the reali-
ties of congestion.
It has been estimated that the delays
caused by congestion and the excessive
fuels that are used by congestion cost
our economy over $300 billion every
year. So there is not only a quality-of-
life issue involved in our taking on
congestion, there is also an economic
reason to take on the issues of conges-
tion.
Of course, it is also linked to our
commitment to deal with the climate
change issues by reducing unnecessary
fuel consumption, which adds to carbon
emissions.
The legislation provides funding for
new initiatives so that we can get solu-
tions to deal with the problems of con-
gestion, the multimobile solutions that
are available in many communities. We
work and allow the locals to give us
ideas and help fund those to reduce
congestion.
As I mentioned earlier, we have a
real challenge on dealing with our
bridges. Many of our bridges are in
need of replacement. Many are in need
of desperate repair. I can mention
many in Maryland. In the southern
part of our State, we have the Nice
Bridge and the Johnson Bridge, both in
need of replacement or repair. This leg-
islation provides additional resources
to deal with bridges in our country.
There are certain highways that have
been built that no longer really serve
the function—or may never serve the
function—of moving people from one
area to another but instead are divid-
ing communities. So the legislation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.007 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5212 July 31, 2019
has a unique section that allows us to
identify those types of highways that
are no longer needed and that are di-
viding and isolating communities so we
can get those highways removed.
I am proud that this legislation
builds on the Transportation Alter-
native Program that I helped author on
the reauthorization bill with my part-
ner Senator WICKER. I thank him for
his help. It allows for much more local
discretion on how transportation funds
are spent. It allows local communities
to have a source of Federal support to
deal with local safety issues, for devel-
oping trails for pedestrian and bike
paths so that the quality of life and
safety of the local community are
taken into consideration on the use of
Federal highway funds.
It provides flexibility to local gov-
ernment. In the first year, we provide
$1.2 billion for transportation alter-
native programs with a steady growth
in the ensuing 4 years.
I also want to acknowledge the sec-
tion in the bill that deals with freight
traffic. It is a growing field. We expect
it to continue to grow. There are funds
that are provided in here to deal with
the realities of moving freight through
our highway surface transportation
system.
In that regard, I was pleased that
this past week we were able to an-
nounce an INFRA grant for Maryland
of $125 million for the Howard Street
Tunnel. This is a tunnel that is 120
years old and runs through Baltimore.
The replacement of this tunnel will
allow for double stacking of rail
freight, which is what you need to do
today if you are going to have effi-
ciency and be economically competi-
tive. This grant will help us replace
that tunnel and help create more jobs
in Baltimore, in Maryland, and in our
entire region of the country and will
provide for more efficiencies on truck
traffic.
I say that because, today, because of
the inefficiencies of rail, we have
trucks that are stacked up in the Port
of Baltimore, which is inefficient for
the truck operators and, again, adds to
the climate problems of excessive use
of fuels.
There is a section in here that deals
with safety, as we should. In 2017, 37,000
people died in our transportation areas.
We need to improve that. There are
some important provisions in this leg-
islation that deal with safety issues.
The bill also deals with reauthorizing
the Appalachian Regional Commission.
I particularly thank Senator CAPITO
for her leadership on this issue. Reau-
thorization is important for the entire
region, including the western part of
the State of Maryland.
This is the first step—and I hope a
successful step—for the completion of
the reauthorization of surface trans-
portation by this Congress before the
end of this year. I hope we can get it
moving. I hope we can get it enacted,
certainly, in time, so there is no lapse
in Federal partnerships dealing with
transportation.
I know we have other committees
that need to act on a comprehensive
transportation bill. Many of us serve
on those other committees. If we follow
the example of the Environment and
Public Works Committee—21 to 0—if
we listen to each other, if we do that,
we can succeed in passing a strong re-
authorization of surface transportation
that will help modernize America’s
transportation needs, which will be
good for our economy, good for our en-
vironment, and good for the quality of
life of all Americans.
I urge my colleagues to follow that
example, and let’s get this work done.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic whip.
ELECTION SECURITY
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, as those
who are following on C–SPAN have
probably noted, we are not over-
whelmed with business on the floor of
the U.S. Senate, nor have we been dur-
ing the course of this year.
We have considered several bills—you
could count them on one hand—includ-
ing the Defense authorization bill, and,
of course, the momentous, historic leg-
islation 2 weeks ago, the tax treaty
with Luxembourg, which had been
pending before the U.S. Senate for 9
years. It finally made it to the floor of
the Senate. That was the highlight of
the week, as we have watched the U.S.
Senate ignore some of the most impor-
tant issues of our time.
Let me tell you one that strikes at
the heart of our democracy, which we
should be focused on today and until it
is resolved. Last week, former FBI Di-
rector and Special Counsel Bob Mueller
testified before the House Judiciary
Committee about his report on Russian
interference in the 2016 election. The
hearing clarified several important
things. For example, President Trump
loves to claim that the Mueller report
completely exonerated him. Trump’s
tweets, one after another, talk about
how he was exonerated by that report.
Director Mueller made clear that is
‘‘not what the report said.’’
When asked by the House Judiciary
chairman ‘‘Did you actually totally ex-
onerate the President?’’ Director
Mueller answered ‘‘no.’’
President Trump likes to say the
Mueller investigation was a witch
hunt. He has said that about 1,000
times. But the investigation actually
led to 37 indictments and over $42 mil-
lion in assets forfeited to the govern-
ment. If this were a witch hunt, it cer-
tainly found a lot of wealthy witches.
Some Republican members of the
House Judiciary Committee tried to at-
tack Director Mueller’s credibility, but
Mueller has a lifetime record of being a
straight shooter, by-the-book investi-
gator, and prosecutor. He did this
country a service when he took on the
role of special counsel.
One thing Director Mueller tried to
remind the American people of is the
reason the investigation was necessary.
He said:
Over the course of my career, I have seen
a number of challenges to our democracy.
The Russian government’s effort to interfere
in our election is among the most serious.
Mueller went on to say: ‘‘This de-
serves the attention of every Amer-
ican.’’
One of the most important
takeaways from the Mueller report is
that Russia did successfully attack our
democracy in 2016. Page 1 of the
Mueller report says: ‘‘The Russian Gov-
ernment interfered in the 2016 presi-
dential election in sweeping and sys-
tematic fashion.’’
The report detailed numerous exam-
ples, including an ‘‘intelligence-gath-
ering mission’’ that employees of the
Internet Research Agency, known as
the IRA, took in June of 2014.
The IRA was the Russian troll farm
that waged information warfare
against the 2016 election by using sto-
len identities, fake social media ac-
counts, and fake campaign events.
The Mueller report and the earlier in-
dictment of several IRA employees
noted that two of the Russians arrived
in the United States for a 3-week trip
‘‘for the purpose of collecting intel-
ligence to inform the [IRA’s] oper-
ations.’’
The report also detailed the Rus-
sians’ attack on my own home State
board of elections. In July 2016, the Illi-
nois State board of elections discov-
ered that it was the target of a mali-
cious, month-long cyber attack that
enabled the intruder to access con-
fidential voter information and view
the registration data of approximately
76,000 voters in my State of Illinois.
These efforts to influence the elec-
tion and attack campaign organiza-
tions and State and local election ad-
ministrators and vendors continue to
this day. What are we going to do
about it?
What has been the response so far of
the U.S. Senate, the body sworn to up-
hold the Constitution and to protect
against enemies, foreign and domestic?
Nothing. We are too busy with the
trade treaty with Luxembourg to deal
with Russian interference in our elec-
tions. In the face of Russia’s threat to
our elections, this Senate has been
quiet as a graveyard.
Let’s start in 2016. Top officials from
the administration’s national security
and intelligence community came and
warned congressional leadership of
Russia’s ongoing attack on our elec-
tions, rightly asking for a bipartisan
statement to tell Russian dictator
Putin to stop. What was Senate Major-
ity Leader MCCONNELL’s response to
this obvious request to protect our Na-
tion? He said: No thanks. I am not
going to do it.
History will no doubt look back in
infamy at that decision.
What about the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee, a historically recog-
nized body with key jurisdiction over
Russian attacks on the United States?
That committee did not even conduct
an investigation into Russia’s actions
in the last Congress.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.009 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5213
July 31, 2019
Republicans were silent when Trump
repeatedly accepted Russian dictator
Vladimir Putin’s brazen denials over
American intelligence experts and all
of the evidence to the contrary.
They were silent again after the
Mueller report’s devastating findings of
Russian interference. And they were si-
lent when President Trump subse-
quently said he would gladly accept
election help from a foreign power
again.
Now look at the current Congress.
Several bipartisan bills have been in-
troduced to respond to this Russian
threat, including the Election Security
Act. This is a critical, comprehensive
bill that would provide States with
much needed resources and establish a
robust Federal effort to protect our de-
mocracy.
Unfortunately, Republican Senate
Leader MCCONNELL is blocking all ef-
forts to bring this important legisla-
tion to the floor for a debate and vote.
This legislation could thwart Russian
interference in the 2020 election. Sen-
ator MCCONNELL refuses to bring it to
the floor.
I end with the questions I have asked
before here on the floor: How can the
party of Ronald Reagan continue to sit
by while this President pursues policies
aligned with the former KGB agent,
Vladimir Putin? Why didn’t the first
bills in this new Senate under Repub-
lican control deal with this threat to
the election process in our democracy?
Why isn’t the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee holding urgent hearings on
these stunning dalliances between an
American President and a Russian dic-
tator? Why isn’t the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee moving bipar-
tisan legislation that would protect
U.S. membership in NATO?
Quite frankly, we barely do anything
in this legislative graveyard of the
Senate under Republican control. You
would think we would at least focus, on
a bipartisan basis, on making certain
that the outcome of the next election
is not influenced by a foreign power,
whether it is Russia or some other ma-
licious force in the world today.
But because it bruises the President’s
ego and it may invoke a nasty tweet,
the Republican-controlled Senate pre-
fers to do nothing. It is time for the
Republican majority to stop protecting
President Trump at all costs.
There reaches a point when the Sen-
ate Republican leadership needs to put
the country before fear of the Presi-
dent’s tweets.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kentucky.
BIPARTISAN BUDGET ACT OF 2019
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, can you
hear it? Can you hear the somber
notes, the feet shuffling, and the sol-
emn tones? Can you hear it? It is a
dirge, a funeral march, and it is the
death of a movement—a once proud
movement with hundreds of thousands
of people gathered on the National
Mall. It is the death and it is the last
gasp of a movement in America that
was concerned with our national debt.
Today is the final nail in the coffin.
The tea party is no more. The budget
deal today allows unlimited borrowing
for nearly 2 years—unlimited, no lim-
its—and the government will borrow
what they wish without limit for 2
years. It abolishes all spending caps.
Adoption of this deal marks the death
of the tea party movement in America.
Fiscal conservatives—those who re-
main—should be in mourning for Con-
gress. Both parties have deserted you.
The national debt now stands at $22
trillion. This year, we will add over $1.2
trillion. We are approaching record
deficits, and neither party cares. Both
parties have deserted, have absolutely
and utterly deserted America and have
shown no care and no understanding
and no sympathy for the burden of debt
they are leaving the taxpayers, the
young, the next generation, and the fu-
ture of our country.
The very underpinnings of our coun-
try are being eroded and threatened by
this debt. The interest on this debt will
be over $400 billion next year—pre-
cisely, $455 billion. Interest will sur-
pass all welfare spending in the next 2
years. Interest on the debt will surpass
defense spending by 2025.
Social Security is $7 trillion in debt.
Medicare is over $30 trillion in debt.
Yet a parade of candidates on national
television last night said they want to
double and triple the government’s ex-
penditures where the government is al-
ready trillions of dollars short. Whose
fault is this? Both parties.
The media completely doesn’t get it.
The media says: Oh, there is not
enough compromise in Washington.
That is exactly the opposite of the
truth. There is too much compromise
in Washington. There is always an
agreement to spend more money. There
is always an agreement to spend money
we don’t have. There is always an
agreement to borrow your kids’ and
your grandkids’ money and to put this
country further at risk.
Admiral Mullen put it this way. He
said the most significant threat to our
national security is our debt. Yet all
around me on my side of the aisle are
those who clamor and say: Our mili-
tary is hollowed out and can’t com-
plete its mission. Well, perhaps the
mission is too big for the budget.
Maybe it is not a problem of having
enough money; maybe it is a problem
of making our mission to be everything
to everyone around the world, to have
spent $50 billion a year building roads
and bridges in Afghanistan for the last
20 years and to continue that forever.
When the President put forward a
proposal, a thought that we might try
to end and to declare victory in Af-
ghanistan, this body—both parties rose
up as one, and the vast majority said it
would be precipitous to leave Afghani-
stan after 19 years.
This is the problem. It isn’t acri-
mony. It isn’t both parties fighting
each other. It is both parties agreeing
to increase the debt. They increase the
debt for different reasons, but the only
way they get theirs—‘‘give me mine,
give me mine’’ is what both sides say.
The right wants for the military. Yet
we spend more on the military than
the next 10 countries combined. We
spend more on the military—the
United States spends more than all of
NATO combined. All of the NATO
countries combined spend less than we
do on the military.
People say we are hollowed out and
we can’t complete our mission. Well,
maybe the mission is too big. It isn’t
that the budget is too small; it is that
the mission is too big. Maybe we don’t
need to have troops in 50 of 55 African
countries. Maybe we need to rethink
our mission. Maybe the mission of the
military should be to defend our coun-
try, not to intervene in every civil war
around the world.
Admiral Mullen said the most signifi-
cant threat to our national security is
our debt. Yet we are piling on more
debt, saying we need more military.
Maybe we need to discuss the mission
of our military. We are piling on more
debt, some in the name of national se-
curity. Yet I think it weakens us with
every moment.
The vote today will be on a 2-year
debt ceiling with no limits. The details
do matter. Raising the debt ceiling
with no limits would be like telling
your kid: OK, you can have a credit
card, but there will be no limits on
what you spend. Just spend it on what-
ever you want, in whatever amount,
and in 2 years, I will just pay the bill
for you.
Nobody would do that with their
family money, and no country should
act that way. We can’t keep going on
like this.
Where are all the fiscal conserv-
atives? What happened to the tea party
movement, which was bipartisan and
was concerned citizens rising up and
saying: I don’t want something from
government. What I want is a govern-
ment that is responsible, a government
that spends what comes in, a govern-
ment that doesn’t keep borrowing and
borrowing and borrowing and putting
us further at risk.
What happened to that movement?
That movement elected some of these
people. You heard these people. Don’t
you remember, when President Obama
was President, the Republicans all
clamoring and saying ‘‘trillion-dollar
deficits’’ for multiple years. Every
year, they would say: President Obama
wants to spend and borrow and spend
and borrow. I heard it in my State. I
heard it from the very people who
today will vote for this monstrosity.
Some of them will actually vote for
my amendment to give themselves
cover. They will say: Oh, yeah, I was
for the Paul amendment. But then they
are also going to vote for the deal that
will bankrupt our country. What hap-
pened to these people? They all
thought debt was bad when it was
President Obama’s debt, but they are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.010 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5214 July 31, 2019
not ecumenical, and they are not very
much into self-examination. They are
not interested in the debt now that Re-
publicans are complicit.
But before we make this about Re-
publicans, remember that there is not
a Democrat in Washington who cares
about the debt. The difference between
the parties is that the Democrats are
honest. They are very honest. They
don’t care about the debt. Look, they
are all over the stage, falling all over
themselves, trying to give free
healthcare to illegal aliens. They are
all on the stage trying to talk about
giving Medicare for All when we can’t
even afford the Medicare for Some. So
Democrats don’t care. The country
should know that Democrats do not
care about the debt. But here is the
problem: The only opposition party we
have in the country is the Republican
Party, and they don’t care either. They
just come home, and they are dishonest
and tell you they care, and then they
vote for a monstrosity.
Today’s vote will be a vote for a mon-
strosity, an abomination, the ability to
borrow money for over 2 years until
guess what intervenes. Why are we
going to wait 2 years with no limits on
borrowing? There is this little thing
called an election. They don’t want to
be in public voting to raise the debt
ceiling an unlimited amount or a vast
amount again, so they are putting it
off to beyond the election. Both parties
are complicit, though. Nobody wants to
vote on this again.
People talk about draining the
swamp. You can’t drain the swamp un-
less you are willing to cut the size and
scope of government. That is the
swamp. The swamp is this morass that
is millions of people up here organized
to involve themselves in the economy.
Most of them could disappear from
government, and no one would notice.
The only thing you would notice is less
money coming to Washington and more
money remaining in the States.
It is a little bit of what happened
with the tax cut. But in addition to the
tax cut returning to people their own
money, we should also quit spending
money we don’t have up here. During
the tax cut, I, for one, said: You have
to cut spending. I offered amendments
during the tax cut to cut spending. Do
you know what happened? I got four
votes. Four people in the Senate cared
about the debt on that particular vote.
After we passed the tax cut, there is
a provision that says there will be
automatic spending cuts if the taxes
were to bring in less revenue. Guess
what. I forced a vote to keep that rule
in place. I got nine votes because most
people don’t care.
No Democrat cares about the debt.
The Republicans falsely tell you they
care, and the vast majority will vote
for this monstrosity today.
Today, I will offer an alternative.
Some say: Well, you conservatives
won’t vote to raise the debt ceiling at
all, and we will go bankrupt, there will
be turmoil in the markets, and it will
be a disaster. So what I am offering for
conservatives today is that we will
raise the debt ceiling under a couple of
conditions. We will raise the debt ceil-
ing if you adopt, in advance, signifi-
cant spending cuts, caps on spending,
and a balanced budget amendment to
the Constitution.
See, here is the road, and here is, I
guess, the beginning and the end of the
dishonesty around here. If we had a
vote today, we would have some people
saying: Why don’t we vote on the bal-
anced budget amendment?
We all love to vote for it. We don’t
really mean it. We don’t really care
about balancing the budget. We are not
for it because we are Big Government
Republicans. But we love to vote for
the balanced budget amendment be-
cause I can go home and tell people:
Yeah, I voted for the really crazy, mon-
strous budget deal to expand the debt,
but I also voted for the balanced budg-
et amendment.
Well, here is our deal. We don’t want
to vote on the balanced budget amend-
ment; we want adoption of the bal-
anced budget amendment. So if you
will cut spending, if you will cap spend-
ing, and if you will pass a balanced
budget amendment to the Constitu-
tion, I will vote to raise the debt ceil-
ing—but only if those things are done.
People say: Well, if we don’t raise the
debt ceiling without any reform, the
country—the markets will go into tur-
moil. Well, guess what. We bring in $3
trillion, and we spend $4 trillion. What
does that mean? We can pay for $3 tril-
lion on a daily basis without bor-
rowing. So if tomorrow we didn’t raise
the debt ceiling, what would happen?
We would spend $3 trillion. Every So-
cial Security check could go out, every
soldier could be paid, and everybody on
Medicare could be taken care of. That
is probably about it, to tell you the
truth, because we spend too much
damn money. We spend money we don’t
have. But you could provide the essen-
tials to people—Social Security, Medi-
care, pay our soldiers, and maybe a few
other things—if you just spent what
came in.
Isn’t that what we should do? Isn’t
that what responsible people do? Does
any American family routinely spend a
third—25 percent more than comes in?
Does anybody spend $4 for every $3 that
comes in? Nobody does that. Nobody in
their right mind does that, but your
government does it. And who is at
fault? Both parties. They are
complicit. They scratch each other’s
backs. They both are terrible on the
deficit. Both parties are bad. Both par-
ties are ruining our country.
My amendment is called cut, cap, and
balance—cuts spending, puts caps back
in place that they can’t exceed, and
says that if we vote now on a balanced
budget amendment and if it passes and
if it is sent to the States, then we
would raise the debt ceiling.
Most people around here don’t want
any linkage. It is not that they will
just complain that my budgetary re-
forms are too harsh; they will complain
that they don’t want any. So there
won’t be any alternative. There won’t
be someone saying: Well, those are too
much, and we would rather have just a
little bit. No, they don’t want any re-
straint. The budget monstrosity, the
deal, the abomination we will vote on
today will have no limits—no dollar
limits.
I was arguing this last week on an-
other particular issue, and from across
the country, I got reamed by the left-
wing mob who says: Why are you doing
is this? Why couldn’t you do it on an-
other matter?
We do it on every matter. Those of us
who are fiscally conservative are say-
ing that we shouldn’t spend money we
don’t have. I am doing it again this
week, saying that we should not spend
money we don’t have, that it is irre-
sponsible, and that we are eroding the
very foundation that has made Amer-
ica great.
I will vote against this budget deal. I
will present cut, cap, and balance. Cut,
cap, and balance is a responsible way
to raise the debt ceiling by cutting
spending, capping spending, and also
passing a balanced budget amendment
to the Constitution. I hope my col-
leagues will consider that.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). The Senator from South
Dakota.
SOUTH DAKOTA
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I love the
month of August, and I think I have al-
ways loved the month of August going
back to the time when I was a kid be-
cause, obviously, growing up in South
Dakota, August is a great month of the
year. It is hot. There are a lot of activi-
ties. Of course, it is the month before
or, in some cases, it is the month of re-
turning to school, but it is a time in
which there are lots of things going on
in my home State of South Dakota,
and especially since becoming a Mem-
ber of Congress, I really love August.
I head back home to South Dakota
almost every weekend to meet with
South Dakotans, but August is wonder-
ful and different for two reasons. One
reason is, August gives us an extended
work period, a time when we get a
chance to visit the farthest corners of
our State, places that might be hard to
visit on just a weekend—places such as
Bison, Milbank, Clear Lake, Huron,
and Mobridge. I get to talk to people
who make their living in production
agriculture in some of the most rural
parts of South Dakota. There is noth-
ing more valuable than getting to talk
to these South Dakotans firsthand and
to hear the challenges they face and
what we can do here in Washington to
help out—not to mention how wonder-
ful it is to spend time in these beau-
tiful parts of our State. If you haven’t
taken in the rugged beauty of the Bad-
lands or the rivers and prairies of Cen-
tral South Dakota, then you are miss-
ing out.
The other thing I like about heading
back to South Dakota in August is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.012 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5215
July 31, 2019
that it is fair season—the Sioux Em-
pire Fair, the Turner County Fair, the
Brown County Fair, Central States
Fair, Yankton Riverboat Days, and
powwows in Tribal communities
around the State. The list literally
goes on. You would be hard-pressed to
find better events, better people, or
better food. I often joke that in the
month of August, I am basically eating
my way across South Dakota: ice
cream at the fair in Parker, pork sand-
wiches with the pork producers, milk-
shakes at Dakotafest, cheese curds at
the State fair, and I can go on.
I vividly remember the year I had a
Tubby Burger plus a big fries, plus to
go with it a malt at the Brown County
Fair, and got up early the next morn-
ing to run the 5K at Riverboat Days in
Yankton. Needless to say, it was not
my best run time, but it was worth it
for the Tubby Burger.
There is really nothing better than a
South Dakota road trip. Our State has
so much to offer, an incredible range of
scenery, from rolling prairies to the
heights of Black Elk Peak, and hun-
dreds of miles of wide-open country.
There is nothing better than a summer
afternoon driving down a South Da-
kota highway. You feel like you can
see, literally, forever.
We have an incredible number of out-
door opportunities, from fishing and
hunting to hiking, biking, rock climb-
ing, water sports. You name it; in
South Dakota, we have it.
South Dakota is an affordable place
for families to visit as well. You are
not going to break the bank on meals
or lodging. Of course, we have unfor-
gettable road trip stops like the Corn
Palace in Mitchell or Wall Drug. Make
sure, if you get to Wall Drug, that you
grab a homemade doughnut or a glass
of free ice water and take a picture on
Instagram with the giant jackalope
outside.
As for South Dakotans, well, they are
the nicest people you are ever going to
meet. A South Dakota road trip is
worth it for the people alone. In addi-
tion to the wonderful memories I made
traveling across the State as an adult,
I cherish my memories of the trips to
the Black Hills as a child with my par-
ents and siblings. We used to go out
there for Labor Day, stay in this little
non-air-conditioned cabin, and enjoy
the outdoors. We would hike and visit
the caves, go to Mount Rushmore, or
visit the lake.
I still love visiting Sylvan Lake in
the Black Hills. I loved being there
with my parents and siblings, and I
love taking my daughters there on
trips like the ones I took growing up.
Nobody who visits South Dakota
should miss the Black Hills. I am not
sure there is a more beautiful place on
Earth—the interplay of light, shadow
on the trees and rocks late on a sum-
mer afternoon, the endless South Da-
kota sky reflected in the clear blue of
Sylvan Lake. People in Washington,
DC, don’t know what the Milky Way
looks like on a clear night in the Black
Hills or on the prairies of South Da-
kota. It is as if the sky had been car-
peted with millions of diamonds.
I am lucky to be a son of South Da-
kota. I am looking forward to getting
out of Washington, DC, this week and
heading back to my home State of
South Dakota for some of the best
weeks of the year.
Brown County, if you are listening to
this, please save me a Tubby Burger.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
MEDICARE FOR ALL
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, over the
past several months, we have heard a
lot of talk about Medicare for All. Its
Democratic supporters claim this is
the panacea that will solve all of Amer-
ica’s healthcare woes. They say it will
guarantee every person’s access to
healthcare and simplify our healthcare
system, but it doesn’t take much effort
to see the flaws in their proposal and in
their argument—something we are ob-
ligated to do, to examine these pro-
posals to see whether they will work or
not.
Our Democratic friends proudly own
the fact that Medicare for All would
completely end employer-based health
insurance as we know it. We heard that
a lot last night during the debates of
the Democratic candidates running for
President. It would literally force
every American into one government-
run plan modeled after our current
Medicare system.
Part of the problem is, seniors have
paid into the Medicare system for
many years, and we know it is on a
path to insolvency unless Congress
does something. Medicare for All would
only make that worse, expanding it to
every eligible American.
According to a Kaiser poll released
yesterday, more than three-quarters of
Americans favor employer-sponsored
health insurance, and 86 percent of peo-
ple with employer coverage rate their
insurance positively. That would in-
clude, again, as we heard last night,
many union members who have been
part of the collective bargaining agree-
ment with their employers, with man-
agement, to negotiate outstanding,
quality private health insurance. That
would go away under Medicare for All.
We know that about 83-percent of the
people polled support our current Medi-
care system for our seniors, and a
whopping 95 percent of people with
Medicare coverage are happy with it,
but if Medicare for All becomes the law
of the land, those numbers would plum-
met because Medicare would be unrec-
ognizable to the seniors who paid into
the fund and who have earned that cov-
erage.
Families would lose all freedom when
it comes to making their own
healthcare choices. You see a govern-
ment-selected doctor at a government-
selected facility. We know what that
looks like in the United Kingdom and
in Canada, where people have to wait
in long lines just to get seen by their
doctor, much less elective surgery. You
get the coverage the government says
you deserve at the time, when the gov-
ernment says you can have it. It would
completely hollow out the existing
Medicare Program and inject
unfathomable instability into Amer-
ica’s healthcare system.
If you get past all of that, which is
hard to do, you certainly will not be
able to stomach the price. Medicare for
All, it is estimated, would cost tax-
payers $32 trillion over the first 10
years alone. Now, credit BERNIE SAND-
ERS, our colleague from Vermont. He is
honest enough to acknowledge that he
is going to have to raise taxes on the
middle class to pay for that, but $32
trillion is a lot of money, especially
when our current debt exceeds $20 tril-
lion already and is growing. When it
comes to how they would pay for it,
the only answer we hear from every-
body other than BERNIE SANDERS is,
‘‘Let’s just tax the rich.’’
This is part of their usual talking
points and part of the Democratic Par-
ty’s incredible sprint to the left and
their shocking embrace of a socialist
agenda.
We saw the start of their move to-
ward socialized medicine in 2009 with
ObamaCare. We famously recall Presi-
dent Obama trying to reassure people
that if you like your healthcare plan,
you can keep it, and if you like your
doctor, you can keep your doctor—
none of which proved to be true.
Now Democrats want to make these
extravagant promises about Medicare
for All, which we know they cannot
keep. It is clear ObamaCare was just
the beginning. Medicare for All, or the
public option, so to speak, which some
people try to tout as an alternative, is
nothing but a government competition
for private health insurance, and you
can’t beat the Federal Government, es-
pecially when it is paid for by Federal
tax dollars. That is a march toward the
elimination of private health insur-
ance, including that provided through
your employer, which now benefits
about 180 million Americans.
Last night, we saw candidates defend
these radical policies during the Demo-
cratic debate. Two of our Senate col-
leagues who are running for President
sparred over what another candidate
called ‘‘fairytale’’ promises. They
fought to defend their plan to remove
all choice from Americans’ healthcare.
They tried to convince their fellow
Democrats and the American people
that they are writing a check that, if
elected, they can cash.
We know that is not true. The Amer-
ican people are not going to be fooled.
They don’t want socialized medicine;
they don’t want to run up government
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.013 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5216 July 31, 2019
spending; they certainly don’t want to
have to pay $32 trillion in additional
taxes to pay for it; and they certainly
don’t want Washington bureaucrats
dictating their families’ healthcare
choices.
In a speech last week, the Adminis-
trator of the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, Seema Verma,
spoke about these radical healthcare
ideas. She said: ‘‘These proposals are
the largest threats to the American
healthcare system.’’
Let me say that again. Seema
Verma, head of CMS, the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services, called
these proposals ‘‘the largest threats’’
to America’s healthcare system. So
you better believe we will keep fight-
ing to resist this socialist agenda and
this evermore liberal wish list.
BIPARTISAN BUDGET ACT OF 2019
Mr. President, on another matter, we
will soon be able to vote on a bipar-
tisan, 2-year budget agreement to pro-
vide some certainty and stability to
the Federal Government and Federal
spending. The President and Speaker
PELOSI have reached this deal in order
to avoid the possibility of another gov-
ernment shutdown and instead leave
time and space for a wide-ranging de-
bate on our government spending hab-
its.
I know the Presiding Officer believes
as I do; that it is past time to have a
genuine, far-ranging debate about gov-
ernment spending habits that is not
just focused on discretionary spending,
which is what this budget caps deal
does, but on all the money the Federal
Government spends, which includes the
70 percent of spending which is on
autopilot, which this deal does not dis-
cuss or deal with.
I will be the first to admit this budg-
et agreement isn’t perfect. It never is.
Anything negotiated means both sides
have to give up a little bit in order to
find common ground. As I indicated, I
certainly wish it were more aggressive.
I wish it did something to deal with
our entitlement programs as we con-
tinue to face growing deficits, but I am
glad to see that the agreement offsets
roughly a 1-year increase for non-
defense discretionary spending above
current law and allows our government
to be funded on time and on budget.
It also avoids 30 poison pill policy
riders on everything from taxpayer
funding for abortion to immigration
law, keeping them from reaching the
President’s desk.
Above all, this agreement delivers on
our most fundamental responsibility,
which is to provide for our common de-
fense. When our friend, the senior Sen-
ator from Oklahoma, first came here,
he said: I am a conservative, which
means there are really two things that
take priority when it comes to the Fed-
eral Government. One is national de-
fense, and the other is infrastructure.
He said everything else comes below
that on the priority list. I found a lot
of wisdom in those words. Providing for
the common defense is the most impor-
tant thing Congress does, along with
the administration.
We know under the previous adminis-
tration, the Pentagon and our national
defense were underfunded dramati-
cally. It operated without any kind of
stability or predictability, and this
took a serious toll on our military
readiness.
After nearly a decade of neglect,
President Trump and Senate Repub-
licans are working to rebuild our mili-
tary and rebuild that readiness and
modernize our force.
Let’s look at the Army Future
Vertical Lift—or FVL—as an example
of why this investment is so very im-
portant. FVL is a cross-functional
team within Army Futures Command
headquarters in Austin, TX, that aims
to develop two new helicopters for the
Army in the 2020s. These next-genera-
tion aircraft will replace aging mili-
tary helicopters and provide our serv-
icemembers with the capabilities they
need today and tomorrow.
But right now, these programs are
progressing without timely funding. It
is hard to make plans when you don’t
know how the money is going to flow.
Without a budget deal and on-time ap-
propriations, the Army has no choice
but to significantly delay these pro-
grams for years to come, meaning that
the Army will continue to operate heli-
copters built in the seventies and
eighties.
The same goes with our artillery.
Those years of underfunding have al-
lowed Russia and China to surpass our
capabilities in a number of areas, in-
cluding long-range precision fire. In
this and other areas, the military must
develop longer range weapons to pro-
vide an advantage over our adversaries
and maintain our qualitative edge.
As a newer program, the Army would
not be able to continue research, devel-
opment, and testing under a continuing
resolution or without a budget deal,
putting us another year behind in mod-
ernizing our force in an era of great
power competition. That means China
and Russia continue apace while we are
slow to try to catch up.
That is why this deal is so important.
It provides stable and reliable funding
so that our military leaders can plan
for the future and provide for the com-
mon defense.
Our newly confirmed Defense Sec-
retary, Mark Esper, talked about this
at length when testifying before the
Armed Services Committee a couple of
weeks ago. He talked about the Depart-
ment of Defense receiving funding on
time last year and said that it really
allowed us to accelerate the readiness
gains we have made to advance our
modernization efforts and to do all of
the things the national defense strat-
egy tells us we need to do.
You would think there would be
broad bipartisan support for providing
America’s military with the necessary
resources to keep the American people
safe. Somehow, though, some of our
Members believe that this critical na-
tional security mission is optional.
Unfortunately, there are some in our
midst who look to reduce military
funding at every possible turn. Fortu-
nately, we have a President who shares
our commitment to national security.
Thanks to the Trump administration’s
tough negotiating, this deal provides
the stability the Pentagon needs, in-
cluding critical investments in mili-
tary readiness. Compared to current
law, it provides a larger increase in dis-
cretionary funding for defense than
nondefense discretionary programs and
would allow us to regain the ground
lost under the Obama administration.
I appreciate the President’s work,
along with that of the House and the
Senate, to deliver a budget deal that
supports America’s military, and I look
forward to supporting this agreement
later today and certainly later this
week.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, not-
withstanding rule XXII, I ask unani-
mous consent that the Senate proceed
to legislative session and be in a period
of morning business, with Senators
permitted to speak therein for up to 10
minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
AMENDING SECTION 327 OF THE
ROBERT T. STAFFORD DISASTER
RELIEF AND EMERGENCY AS-
SISTANCE ACT TO CLARIFY
THAT NATIONAL URBAN SEARCH
AND RESCUE RESPONSE SYSTEM
TASK FORCES MAY INCLUDE
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs be discharged from
further consideration of H.R. 639 and
that the Senate proceed to its imme-
diate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (HR. 639) to amend section 327 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act to clarify that Na-
tional Urban Search and Rescue Response
System task forces may include Federal em-
ployees.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. CORNYN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the bill be considered read a
third time and passed and the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (H.R. 639) was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.014 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5217
July 31, 2019
RESTORE THE HARMONY WAY
BRIDGE ACT
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H.R. 3245, which was received
from the House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 3245) to transfer a bridge over
the Wabash River to the New Harmony River
Bridge Authority and the New Harmony and
Wabash River Bridge Authority, and for
other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. CORNYN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the bill be considered read a
third time and passed and the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (H.R. 3245) was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
f
AUTHORIZING THE HONORARY
PROMOTION OF COLONEL
CHARLES E. MCGEE TO BRIGA-
DIER GENERAL IN THE UNITED
STATES AIR FORCE
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Armed Services be dis-
charged from further consideration of
S. 2052 and that the Senate proceed to
its immediate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 2052) to authorize the honorary
promotion of Colonel Charles E. McGee to
brigadier general in the United States Air
Force.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. CORNYN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Van Hollen amendment,
which is at the desk, be considered and
agreed to; that the bill, as amended, be
considered read a third time and
passed; and that the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 933) was agreed
to as follows:
(Purpose: To prohibit entitlement to benefits
by reason of the honorary promotion)
At the end, add the following:
SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON BENEFITS.
No person is entitled to any bonus, gra-
tuity, pay, or allowance by reason of section
1.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
The bill (S. 2052), as amended, was
passed as follows:
S. 2052
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AUTHORITY FOR HONORARY PRO-
MOTION OF COLONEL CHARLES E.
MCGEE TO BRIGADIER GENERAL IN
THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE.
The President is authorized to issue an ap-
propriate honorary commission promoting to
brigadier general in the Air Force Colonel
Charles E. McGee, United States Air Force
(retired), a distinguished Tuskegee Airman
whose honorary promotion to that grade has
the recommendation of the Secretary of the
Air Force in accordance with the provisions
of section 1563 of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON BENEFITS.
No person is entitled to any bonus, gra-
tuity, pay, or allowance by reason of section
1.
f
AUTHORIZING THE USE OF EMAN-
CIPATION HALL FOR AN EVENT
TO COMMEMORATE THE 400TH
ANNIVERSARY OF THE ARRIVAL
OF THE FIRST AFRICAN SLAVES
TO THE TERRITORY THAT
WOULD BECOME THE UNITED
STATES
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H. Con. Res. 53, which was re-
ceived from the House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 53)
authorizing the use of Emancipation Hall for
an event to commemorate the 400th anniver-
sary of the arrival of the first African slaves
to the territory that would become the
United States.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolution.
Mr. CORNYN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the resolution be agreed to
and the motion to reconsider be consid-
ered made and laid upon the table with
no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The concurrent resolution (H. Con.
Res. 53) was agreed to.
f
HONORING THE 100TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE AMERICAN LEGION
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Judiciary
Committee be discharged from further
consideration and that the Senate now
proceed to S. Res. 263.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the resolution
by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 263) honoring the
100th anniversary of The American Legion.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. CORNYN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the resolution be agreed to,
the preamble be agreed to, and the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 263) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed the RECORD of June 25, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
NATIONAL AIRBORNE DAY
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Res. 294, which was sub-
mitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 294) designating Au-
gust 16, 2019, as ‘‘National Airborne Day’’.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the resolution
be agreed to, the preamble be agreed
to, and the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 294) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
CAMPUS FIRE SAFETY MONTH
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the consideration of S. Res.
295, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 295) designating the
month of September 2019 as ‘‘Campus Fire
Safety Month’’.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I know
of no of further debate on the measure.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
Hearing none, the question is, Shall
the resolution pass?
The resolution (S. Res. 295) was
agreed to.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the preamble
VerDate Sep 11 2014 17:09 Aug 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JULY\S31JY9.REC S31JY9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5218 July 31, 2019
be agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
SCHOOL BUS SAFETY MONTH
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Judiciary
Committee be discharged from further
consideration and that the Senate pro-
ceed to S. Res. 285.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 285) designating Sep-
tember 2019 as ‘‘School Bus Safety Month’’.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. CORNYN. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the resolution be agreed to,
the preamble be agreed to, and the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 285) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of July 25, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION—Continued
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate re-
sume executive session and, notwith-
standing rule XXII, the time between
now and 3 p.m. be equally divided be-
tween the leaders and their designees.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Indiana.
WHISTLEBLOWER APPRECIATION DAY
Mr. BRAUN. Mr. President, whistle-
blowers play a key role in holding the
Federal Government accountable for
waste, fraud, abuse, mismanagement,
and illegal activity. It is therefore ap-
propriate that even though Whistle-
blower Appreciation Day was yester-
day, we take a moment to pause and
thank the brave men and women who
have the courage to speak up when
they see ways to better or improve our
government. I want to thank them for
their efforts to ensure that our govern-
ment never loses sight of why we are
here—to serve the American people and
to be good stewards of their resources
and trust.
I was also proud to introduce legisla-
tion with Senator MAGGIE HASSAN of
New Hampshire. Our bill ensures ade-
quate protections for subgrantees—the
folks on the firing line who are most
important to revealing when some-
thing is not right. That needs to be
protected in a way that is ensured so
that they always feel comfortable com-
ing forward.
In 1989, Congress approved the Whis-
tleblower Protection Act, thereby ex-
panding whistleblower protections for
Federal employees and later expanding
protections for individuals in certain
private sector employment.
From time to time, it has been nec-
essary for Congress to refine Federal
whistleblower laws. We always want
them to be working. In one such in-
stance, Congress enhanced whistle-
blower protections as part of the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act of
2013 for Federal contractor, subcon-
tractor, and grantee employees on a
pilot program basis. The program
worked well, and, in 2016, Congress saw
fit to make the pilot permanent. It
makes sense. This is how the process
should work. Congress saw a problem,
addressed it on a test basis, evaluated
it to make sure it was working as it
should, and moved to make the pro-
gram permanent.
However, the subsequent amend-
ments in 2016, to make sure the pro-
gram was working, failed to guarantee
subgrantees were recognized in the leg-
islative text, as necessary, to make
sure it would work on a technical
basis. While 2016 amendments explic-
itly included Federal subgrantee em-
ployees, coordinated changes were not
made in the statute’s related sections.
I am proud to introduce this legisla-
tion with Senator HASSAN to close this
gap because it needs to work in all
cases. S. 2315, the Whistleblower Act,
clarifies the scope of the protection
statute specifically as to employees of
Federal subgrantees who provide pro-
tected disclosures. Subgrantees are
often in the best position to provide in-
formation regarding wrongdoing as to
Federal subgrant funds. I am, there-
fore, pleased to play a small role in
cleaning up our laws so they operate as
they were intended—to protect whistle-
blowers.
Finally, we take whistleblowers seri-
ously in my office. If anybody would
like to assist, contact me through our
whistleblower assistance line. One can
email me at
whistleblower@braun.senate.gov.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
ELECTION SECURITY
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, over the
past several weeks, we have seen nu-
merous attempts by our colleagues on
the other side of the aisle to take a se-
rious issue and, frankly, I think, turn
it into a political football. It is an
issue on which the Presiding Officer
and I have spent a lot of time looking
at what we need to do, in our having
served on the Committee on Intel-
ligence and, in my case, on the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration, to
be sure that people have the maximum
confidence that what happens on elec-
tion day is exactly reflected in the re-
sults.
Our friends came to the floor last
week and sought unanimous consent to
make sweeping changes to the election
laws of the country. Then they some-
how suggested there was a conspiracy
that anybody would say no to that.
Unanimous consent means exactly
that. It is what we do when we name a
post office. It is what we do when we
make decisions that are unanimously
agreed to. It is usually all it takes to
get that issue settled. It is not how we
shape the laws that are at the heart of
our democracy. It is also not what we
do, in my opinion, when we try to
make a point about that. In fact, one of
the bills on which they sought unani-
mous consent had passed the House. It
had received exactly one Republican
vote in the House. So, clearly, it was
not unanimously consented to over
there and would not be unanimously
consented to here.
This is about press releases, not pol-
icy. In fact, today, the President called
for us to pass voter ID laws that would
require voter ID in every State and a
law that would have a paper trail in
every State. Right now, I suppose, if I
were to draft that bill and call for
unanimous consent under the same
standard, I should expect my friends on
the other side to say: Oh, that is some-
thing that others say would help elec-
tions, so I should just be for that and
be for that immediately. Of course,
that would not be the case.
These attempts have all been brought
to the floor on the basis of saving de-
mocracy—that this is what we need to
do to save our elections. This is in the
name of election security, but it is
really not what it is about at all. Three
of the bills were about campaign com-
mittees, which are managed by lots of
laws and may need to be managed by
more, but how you run a campaign
committee is not how you secure what
happens at the voting place on election
day.
One of the proposals was for the Fed-
eral Government to secure the personal
devices of Members of Congress and
their employees. As the Presiding Offi-
cer and I know, one of the things we do
on the Committee on Intelligence is to
put a Fitbit, like this one, on the shelf
before we go into a meeting. If you
have a phone like this one, you put it
on a shelf before you go into a meeting.
This law would say that the Federal
Government should secure those per-
sonal devices of mine so there would be
absolute security so that if they were
to interact with a Federal system,
there would be no damage done to that
system. I guess it would also mean that
if one of my children were to call me
on his personal device, whether he lives
at home or not—and I would, of course,
take that call immediately—he would
then have gotten into my personal de-
vice. Would the Federal Government
need to secure that as well?
Even if it were appropriate for the
Federal Government to do that for
Members and their extended immediate
networks, I am not sure it is possible.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.018 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5219
July 31, 2019
I am certainly sure that it has nothing
to do with election security. It might
have something to do with the security
of our system here in the Senate.
Frankly, I think it might make it less
secure, which is why I have chosen not
to bring that bill up before our com-
mittee until I know more about it. I
think it might make it less secure if
everybody, without hesitation, thinks,
well, somebody has looked at this per-
sonal device of mine and has secured it,
so I can go into any of the secure sys-
tems in the Senate that I want to with
this device and not have any sense that
I might endanger that Senate system.
This doesn’t protect the elections.
There have been numerous UC at-
tempts we have seen on plenty of other
bills that have claimed to secure elec-
tions. One included a provision that
would take away the authority of the
States to determine their own proc-
esses for voter registration. I am not
for that. I also think it is hard to make
the case that it would secure elections.
In case you think it would, another
one was to require every State to have
online voter registration. I am pretty
sure that this would make elections
less secure.
We have talked about all of the infil-
tration of bad information out there on
the internet, and one of these provi-
sions to secure elections would require
States to have online registration.
One was for there to be automatic
voter registration, and another was for
there to be same-day registration.
In the nonurban part of our State of
Missouri, we didn’t have voter registra-
tion in all elections until 1975 or so.
The view was, well, in small towns and
school district elections and all, they
are going to know everybody, so they
really don’t need to have registration.
Yet, finally, it occurred to somebody
that one might just think one knows
five people, and the bond issue might
be decided by five people, so we would
have voter registration. In fact, not
only would we have it, but we would
have it enough in advance that any-
body could look at those voter rolls 28
days in advance and see if there were
any question as to whether one were
registered or not.
Other States have decided to have
same-day registration, but one of these
bills that would secure our elections
would allow anybody to register to
vote that day who would walk up to
vote. If you think that works in your
State, I am not really arguing you
shouldn’t do it, because if that is what
the voters of that State believe to be
the case, maybe it does. I am pretty
sure it wouldn’t work in every State.
In revisiting that online voter registra-
tion again, I am sure that doesn’t se-
cure elections.
There was one proposal that was re-
jected in these bills to secure elections,
that being, for every $1 contributed at
a certain level, there would be $6 given
to that campaign by the Federal Gov-
ernment. That is one of the secure elec-
tion things that was rejected, that
wasn’t accepted by unanimous consent.
At this point, it does seem to me, if
you are not willing to accept all of
these things—there was sort of this
‘‘hair on fire’’ moment—or are not will-
ing to accept anything somebody else
says will secure elections, then some-
how you are undermining the elections
system. Yet we really undermine the
system when we say this kind of thing
helps it. Frankly, I have been watching
this for a while, and that list of things
I gave you has been on every Demo-
cratic wish list for about 20 years of
what would be of advantage to them in
the elections. Never before have they
purported that these things have made
elections more secure. They have just
said it was a better system and more
fair. It was obvious to them it would
help them, and it was obvious to us it
would help them. We haven’t done it,
and we are probably not going to do it
right now.
There are people in this building who
simply will not accept the fact that
there is not a Federal solution to every
problem. Sometimes if there is a Fed-
eral solution, it is not the best solu-
tion. Frankly, I think the diversity of
the election system that we have is one
of the strengths of the system. I may
get back to that later, but that is what
President Obama said in October of
2016. In fact, he said that we didn’t
have a Federal structure and that it
made it really more difficult to impact
our elections than if we had.
I believe everybody here clearly
knows that State and local officials
faced a significant threat from the
Russians, particularly in 2016, that
they had not faced before. One could
probably add that the Russians, the
Chinese, the North Koreans, and the
Iranians could do very disruptive
things for not much money. There is no
question that the Russians affected our
elections, but they have been trying to
impact elections in Eastern and West-
ern Europe for well over a decade. Why
this would be a surprise to us is shock-
ing to me and why, in 2016, we acted
like we were totally flatfooted that,
oh, the Russians would actually inter-
fere with the elections just because
they interfered in elections in a couple
handful of countries in the previous
decade. The world is pretty small when
you get to that internet world we live
in now.
A critical infrastructure declaration
came from the Obama administration
in October whereby, frankly, it terri-
fied most State election officials that,
suddenly, the Federal Government,
with about 2 weeks left before the elec-
tion, was going to Federalize a system
that they were personally responsible
for.
As for the Intelligence Committee
that started this process—the Pre-
siding Officer and I were both on it,
and I am still on it—it released some
key findings about what the Russians
had done. The committee found that
the Russians had worked hard to find
the seams between which the Federal
Government could be helpful to State
and local governments. They found
that the FBI’s and Department of
Homeland Security’s warnings to local
officials came way too late in the proc-
ess and were not well thought out. It
scared the wrong people and confused
more people when the FBI and the DHS
did what they did. While there is no
question that both of those agencies
have redoubled their efforts to build
trust with the States and deploy re-
sources to help secure elections, we
have to remain vigilant to see they
continue to do that. Even when the
Presiding Officer and I worked on a bill
together last year, the local officials
continued to have some problems with
it. I know I said at the time that I had
believed we had been doing everything
this bill would do. I am not sure we
would still be doing it 10 years from
now, so we need to memorialize that. I
haven’t significantly changed my view
on that, but I haven’t changed my
view, more importantly, that we are
doing what we need to do now.
Congress needs to be vigilant. We
have to insist that State and local offi-
cials have the clearance levels they
need. Frankly, let me say this too. On
that topic, I am not sure you can legis-
late that. I am not sure you can legis-
late ‘‘here is what you have to be will-
ing to tell State and local officials.’’ I
am not sure you can ever put that in
writing, but you can ask them what
they are telling people. I talked to one
of our State election officials just last
week.
I asked: How is this going?
He said: Well, everything we request
seems to be one level above the secu-
rity clearance I have.
Too many of the things we ask meet
that criteria. We are going to have to
insist that this not be the case. While
this is not likely to be solved by legis-
lation, I think it can be solved by con-
gressional oversight and inquiry.
The Intelligence Committee also
found that Russian activities demand
renewed attention to vulnerabilities in
the U.S. voting infrastructure. I cer-
tainly agree with that. We even said in
that report we should replace out-of-
date machines with improved ways to
vote and improved cybersecurity. I
think that is happening.
Election officials have been taking
this threat very seriously. DHS, the
Department of Homeland Security, has
reported that all 50 States and more
than 1,400 local jurisdictions have
signed up for the cyber threat informa-
tion sharing program. We have had re-
ports to the Senate on that, and the
Committee on Rules and Administra-
tion has had hearings on that. The
Committee on Intelligence has asked
repeatedly about that. The monitoring
sensors that help to detect malicious
activity have been deployed to election
infrastructure in most States.
Remember that, in 2016, we had a
cyber defense, but we didn’t have a
cyber offense. Early in the Trump ad-
ministration, I remember people being
asked in an open hearing: Do you have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.020 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5220 July 31, 2019
any direction now to be fighting out
there—to have a cyber offense? That
was about 5 months into the Trump ad-
ministration.
The person said: No.
You would think that, somehow, the
old cyber offense had been turned off.
In fact, there had been no cyber of-
fense.
Sometime in 2017, the cyber fighters
were given what they needed, and they
are out there helping. They are fight-
ing back too. We had a report on that
just recently of which all of the Sen-
ators are aware.
One of the chief State election offi-
cials in terms of that cyber war said
that in their system there are about
100,000 attempts every day to scam the
voter registration system and see if
you could possibly get in.
I don’t know how many thousands of
those might be from foreign actors. I
suspect a majority of them are from
people who just say: Let’s see if I can
get into the system. But we should as-
sume all 100,000 are from somebody who
wants to do something wrong, and I
think the States are getting the help
they need to fight that back.
We have seen States use equipment
that didn’t have a backup so that when
the election was over, you could count
something individually and that the
voter would have been able to look at
and get their hands on and recount. As
a matter of fact, if you ask me, the
best proof you can have is a backup, a
ballot that could be counted—a ballot
where if I vote in Missouri, my voting
machine generates something that I
look at and then I put that in the bal-
lot box and it is counted at the polling
place. But if it ever had to be counted
again, if there was any question about
that precinct counter, they can go
back and open that ballot box and
count them again.
On election day in 2016, and even in
2018, there were still four States that
didn’t have that system anywhere in
their States. There are a couple of
other States that have a partial system
and four States that didn’t have it.
Delaware has it in place for this year’s
election. Georgia announced just last
week that they had awarded a contract
to replace their equipment that will be
in place for the 2020 elections and have
an auditable ballot trail. South Caro-
lina made a similar announcement last
month. The fourth State, Louisiana, is
working through a contracting bidding
process right now. Whether they are in
place by 2020 or not in Louisiana I
don’t know, but I know they will be in
as soon as they can reasonably be in
and not confuse voters.
Congress has to continue to move
States to do that. We need to look and
see what happened with the States that
were given $380 million. In 2018, 49
States took the money immediately.
One State, Minnesota, has some glitch
with their legislature so they don’t
have their money yet. But of the $380
million that States have, they have
only spent 25 percent of it. So there is
still $285 million for which States have
to do the kinds of things that the Con-
gress thinks States should be doing.
Now, there may be some States that
have already spent all of their money
and need more. That is something that,
in the appropriations process, I am
sure we will look at again, just like
that $380 million came through the ap-
propriations process.
As I recall, the Presiding Officer was
pretty involved in that discussion at
the time.
The Federal Government’s role isn’t
to run elections for the State, but it
certainly has a place in trying to be a
valued partner, ensuring that the
States have all the help they need.
In fact, I believe that a larger Fed-
eral role requiring a one-size-fits-all
approach to the election would be a big
mistake. I am not for federalizing the
elections.
I spent 20 years as an elections offi-
cial, either as the individual respon-
sible for elections in the third-most
populous county in our State or the
chief elections official as the secretary
of State. In 20 years of doing this, I
guarantee you that the person on the
ground, generally elected by the voters
for whom he or she is trying to secure
the election that day, is intensely in-
terested in that election going well and
people’s having confidence in it.
There is very little kicking the buck
up to some Federal official in a far-
away place and saying: Well, we can’t
prepare for that because we haven’t
been told we could prepare for that.
Public confidence in elections is fun-
damental. It is the central thread in
the fabric of democracy. Elected offi-
cials take it seriously when they are
elected to do this job or supervise this
job, just like appointed officials and
boards of elections or election commis-
sioners do.
That system would not be improved
if it was directed from Washington, DC,
in a one-size-fits-all world.
These public servants undertake an
important job, and they understand it
is an important job. We need to support
them. We are supporting them.
We need to have oversight. There
may be a time when that oversight has
produced a system that is so finely
honed that we are ready to make it
permanent, but every time you put
something in law permanently, you re-
duce a lot of your flexibility to insist
that something be done differently
that needs to be done right now.
Both the Intel Committee report—
and both Senator WARNER and Senator
BURR have done a good job at keeping
our committee on a bipartisan, non-
partisan track in this report—and
former FBI Director Mueller focused
on the insidious efforts to confuse vot-
ers. This is a much bigger question
than what we could do at the govern-
ment level about elections security.
Let’s not confuse that certain fight
about bad information that is out there
with a fight about whether our elec-
tions are secure and what happens on
election day.
Frankly, much more attention on
what we can do about information is
out there. Put people on alert. You
know, sometimes even your political
opponent says things that aren’t true,
and they don’t have to be Russian to do
that. People need to be on alert about
information that is out there, but they
also don’t need to be scared to death
that somehow we are not taking seri-
ously the important moment of democ-
racy when people decide.
I believe we are doing that. I am
committed to it. I believe the Senate is
committed to it. I think this effort to
make everything that might advantage
one side on an election security issue is
something that people need to be
thoughtful about, and it needs to stop.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Hampshire.
OPIOID EPIDEMIC
Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, I rise
today to discuss the need to hold the
pharmaceutical industry accountable
for putting profits before the health
and well-being of our people and our
communities.
I know that my colleague, Senator
BROWN from Ohio, came to the floor
earlier this week to call out bad actors
in the pharmaceutical industry who
have fueled our country’s substance
misuse crisis, and I am grateful for
Senator BROWN’s leadership in calling
attention to this issue, and I join him
in the effort.
We are constantly learning more and
more about the unconscionable ways
that pharmaceutical companies fueled
the substance misuse crisis—a crisis
that is killing more than 100 people a
day in the United States.
Recent data released by the Drug En-
forcement Administration showed that
between 2006 and 2012, just 6 years,
companies distributed 76 billion pills of
oxycodone and hydrocodone through-
out the country, including 290 million
pills that were sent to New Hampshire,
a State with only 1.3 million people.
That works out to about 30 pills per
person per year in the Granite State.
As they distributed those
unfathomable amounts of opioids,
pharmaceutical companies pushed
these drugs with deceptive marketing
tactics, despite the known risks of ad-
diction, to maximize their profits. One
of these tactics even included pushing
the unproven concept of
pseudoaddiction. This false claim as-
serted that patients showing signs of
addiction weren’t actually addicted but
instead needed even higher doses of
opioids. The solution that these scam
artists pushed to address addiction was
to encourage the prescribing of even
more opioids. So instead of providing
actual addiction treatment to those
suffering from substance use disorder,
some patients just received more
drugs.
That kind of strategy enabled the
pharmaceutical industry to dole out
those billions of doses of opioids and
profit enormously from it, leaving in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.021 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5221
July 31, 2019
their wake an opioid crisis that is dev-
astating communities.
Outrageously, as they have aggres-
sively pushed doctors to prescribe
these opioids, a tax loophole has en-
abled Big Pharma to write off the cost
of television ads that blanketed the
airwaves, encouraging more and more
people to seek opioids from their doc-
tors for pain relief, oblivious to the
harm that these drugs could do. I have
joined with Senator BROWN, as well as
Senator SHAHEEN, on legislation to
close that loophole and end taxpayer
subsidies for drug ads, and I am going
to continue to push for transparency
from these companies.
In addition to the devastating impact
that Big Pharma has had in fueling the
substance misuse crisis, the industry
has also hurt patients by massively in-
creasing the cost of prescription drugs.
One of the top issues I hear about
from people in New Hampshire is that
affording lifesaving medications is be-
coming more and more out of reach,
and high drug costs are too often forc-
ing seniors and families to make ago-
nizing decisions.
No one should have to decide between
buying their prescriptions and heating
their home or putting food on the
table, but these are the types of
choices Americans are devastatingly
having to make, all the while big phar-
maceutical companies are reporting
profits that are higher than ever. We
need to change this system, bring down
costs, and hold Big Pharma account-
able.
Last week, the Finance Committee
moved forward with bipartisan legisla-
tion to begin to take on Big Pharma
and lower prescription drug prices.
This bill would cap out-of-pocket costs
for seniors on Medicaid Part D and
crack down on pharmaceutical compa-
nies that raise drug prices higher than
inflation.
It is a really big deal that a bill to
take on the pharmaceutical industry in
a meaningful way advanced out of com-
mittee on a strong bipartisan vote.
Pharma did everything they could to
try to kill and weaken this bill in com-
mittee, and they will keep trying. I am
really encouraged that we have gotten
this far. That is no small accomplish-
ment. We will continue working with
colleagues from both sides of the aisle
to get it across the finish line.
At the heart of the issue with Big
Pharma is the blind pursuit of profits
at the expense of people’s health and
wellbeing. Representatives from the
pharmaceutical industry have told us
often how important innovation is and
how much innovation costs because
they say they want to save lives and
innovation is critically important.
In my own family, like so many
across our country, medical innovation
has been critical not only for saving
life but to improve the quality of life.
Our son Ben regularly has a compres-
sion vest that helps clear his lungs
without the incredibly labor intensive
respiratory therapy that we used to
have to do. He is able to get nutrition
through a feeding tube that runs
smoothly, steadily through the night
so that he can have the kind of nutri-
tion he needs.
Innovation in pharmaceuticals have
also helped Ben improve his quality of
life, and the combination of pharma-
ceutical innovation and medical device
innovation means that a baclofen pump
inserted in Ben’s abdominal cavity
helps his muscles to relax.
But if innovation is about saving
lives, then, how did we get to a point of
crisis that started from the drugs that
they produced? How did we get to a
point where many patients can’t even
afford the lifesaving prescription that
pharma promotes?
It seems that, at least for some phar-
maceutical companies, they only want
to save lives when it makes them
money or when it gives them an excuse
not to restrict their profits.
From the substance misuse crisis to
the skyrocketing costs of prescription
drugs, this body has failed to hold Big
Pharma accountable for far too long.
That must change, and I am committed
to working with anyone who is serious
about finally acting to put patients
first.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). The Senator from Alaska.
TRIBUTE TO CHERYL VENECHUK
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, it is
the time of week again when I come to
the floor to recognize a very special
person in my State—someone who I be-
lieve helps to make Alaska the best
State in the country. We refer to this
person as our Alaskan of the Week. It
is one of my favorite times of the week
because I get to brag about my State
and brag about my fellow Alaskans and
constituents. I think the pages enjoy
these stories about Alaska and what we
are doing up there.
This week, that person is Cheryl
Venechuk. She is our Alaskan of the
Week. She is a wife, a mom, a grand-
mother, an active member of her com-
munity in Healy, AK, which is in the
interior of Alaska, and a woman who is
very active not just in her community
but in her chosen profession. She is a
proud member of Laborers Union Local
942 in Fairbanks. That is part of the
construction union, Laborers’ Inter-
national Union, LIUNA.
Many people know it for its great
men and women across our country—
one of the biggest construction build-
ing trades in North America. These are
men and women who like to go out and
build stuff—roads, pipelines, mines,
build things. These are the type of
Americans who made our country
great.
Let me talk about Cheryl’s life—
about raising her five children in
Healy, about her job, and about all she
does for her community, which is a lot.
I certainly think she personifies the
kind of self-sufficiency, toughness,
kindness, and independent spirit that
Alaska and Alaskans are known for,
not just in Alaska but really through-
out the country and the world. She per-
sonifies it.
Let me tell you a little bit about
Cheryl’s life. She was originally from
the Midwest—Michigan. When she was
about 23 years old, a friend of hers,
Tom Bodett—who was a high school
friend and eventually became the voice
of Motel 6’s motto, ‘‘We’ll leave the
lights on for you’’—told her that Alas-
ka was a good place to make a living
and raise a family. So Cheryl and her
husband Tim, with a child on the way,
moved to a beautiful part of Southeast
Alaska, a community called Peters-
burg, which is a beautiful fishing com-
munity in the southeast part of our
State.
They settled there. They made
friends. They began to raise a family.
She worked at the local cannery, at the
daycare, at the grocery store. She
loved Petersburg. We all love Peters-
burg. I encourage people watching or
watching on TV, when you visit Alas-
ka, make sure to make that part of
your stops.
Eventually, three kids later, Cheryl
and her husband Tim moved north for
Tim’s work as a surveyor for Usibelli
Coal Mine in Healy, AK. That is about
100 miles southwest of Fairbanks in the
interior.
Usibelli is another great story in
Alaska. Several generations of Usibelli
family members have been producing
coal for Alaska and the world, and they
are still doing it—a great company,
great families.
What did Cheryl find in Healy? Cer-
tainly another welcoming community,
but a lot smaller, with a lot fewer
amenities than she found in Peters-
burg.
So as she does, Cheryl rolled up her
sleeves, and along with other young
mothers in the area, she got to work to
create a community that her chil-
dren—eventually five children—and all
the other children and families could
enjoy in interior Alaska.
‘‘We made stuff happen,’’ Cheryl said.
They started a daycare. They started
Boy Scout and Brownie troops. They
made sure hungry children got a hot
lunch. They went around town picking
up cans and started a recycling effort
before recycling was even the rage.
They helped build an ice rink for the
kids to play hockey on. They even
went so far as to haul the water for the
rink in a truck and then spread it out
to form ice. She mentored countless
kids and always had time for her five
kids.
This is what one of her children said
about her: You have a hockey team
that needs a hot meal? Call Cheryl.
You need food for a wedding? Call
Cheryl. Your kid is in trouble? Call
Cheryl. You need something built? Call
Cheryl.
Every community has a Cheryl—the
backbone, the go-to person—who is
usually unsung. We all know someone
like that, and they make our commu-
nities so strong and caring, and in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.023 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5222 July 31, 2019
many ways these kind of people are ex-
actly what my ‘‘Alaskan of the Week’’
series of speeches is all about. So it is
very appropriate we are talking about
her right now.
When Cheryl was in her mid-forties,
with her kids settled and in college,
like a modern-day homesteader, she
yearned for the next challenge. One
day, she saw a group of workers doing
road construction—hard, but very im-
portant work—and she thought, I can
do that. Soon, she became a proud
member of Alaska Laborers Local 942.
That was almost 20 years ago. Her hard
work, along with fellow laborers, is
seen all across the State of Alaska,
wind farms, trails, roads, bridges, and
pipelines.
Many people talk about the great
natural wonders in Alaska, and we
have so many, but the manmade won-
ders are also remarkable—bridges,
roads slicing into giant mountains, oil
rigs, mines—and she and her fellow la-
borers have done so much to build up
that part of the State.
She is a strong advocate for anybody
who decides to work in the building
trades, and she is particularly focused
on women in the construction and
building trades and recruiting them for
these good jobs. She said: These are
good jobs. They are good-paying jobs,
and they build confidence. It is a great
way to make money and to learn how
to use your hands and of course to give
back to your community.
To that end, she and her daughter
Halle created, at their own expense, an
Alaska ‘‘Women in the Trades’’ pro-
motional calendar. The calendar fea-
tures women of all ages who are em-
ployed as heavy equipment operators,
welders, truckdrivers, tree trimmers,
and on and on and on. With her own
money, she put this calendar together.
She drops these calendars off at laun-
dromats, schools, cafes, union halls,
churches, and always keeps a few on
hand to give to women who might need
a new way of thinking about a career,
who might need hope. She also gives
them to people she just runs into—peo-
ple like me. I was out in Fairbanks,
AK, a couple weeks ago in the O’Reilly
Auto Parts parking lot, and bumped
into Cheryl and her daughter Halle,
and I got one of these.
This calendar, Alaska Women in the
Trades, is a great calendar with a cou-
ple of inspirational quotes:
Nothing is impossible. The word itself
says, ‘‘I’m possible.’’
Get it? Pretty clever.
How about another one:
Do something today that your future self
will thank you for.
Think about that, pages. It is good
advice, even for Senators.
This is the kind of work she does, on
her own dime, giving this kind of inspi-
ration to her fellow Alaskans.
My team and I have gotten many
emails from Cheryl’s five children over
the past few days, all of them talking
about what a great mother she is, how
giving, caring, hard-working she is,
how she is a hero to all of them, and
how she is an inspiring example. Let
me quote from one of the emails.
Her daughter Emmaline Hill, who, by
the way, signed up for the U.S. Marine
Corps when she was 18, then went on to
graduate from Notre Dame, got her
commission in the Marine Corps, and
now is stationed in Japan as a major in
the U.S. Marines—here is what she said
about her mom:
My mom believes in people, especially
those who have a hard time believing in
themselves or don’t think they are worthy of
it. She is a rugged champion for the under-
dog and a tireless advocate for employing
Alaskans and building our communities
through volunteerism and action.
That is a beautiful testament to her
mom from her daughter who is a major
in the Marine Corps in Japan.
We are going to be going into our Au-
gust work session. I am going to be
back home in Alaska the whole time.
We are going to be coming up on Labor
Day, a very important holiday. I think
it is important, when we are thinking
about Labor Day, to think about peo-
ple like Cheryl, her fellow laborers, and
particularly the women who are doing
this kind of hard work. You don’t al-
ways think about that in terms of the
construction and building trades, but
they do great work.
So, Cheryl, thank you for all you
have done. Thank you for your hard
work, your inspiration, your dedication
and faith, your indomitable spirit, and
your example to your kids, to your fel-
low Alaskans, and now to Americans,
as we congratulate you for being our
Alaskan of the Week.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
NOMINATION OF ELIZABETH DARLING
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, in the
coming hours, the Senate could take
up the nomination of Elizabeth Darling
to serve as Commissioner for Children,
Youth, and Families at the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services. If
she is confirmed to that role, she would
be a key official overseeing the foster
care system.
I previously had a hold on Ms. Dar-
ling’s nomination, and I am going to
begin my remarks by saying my hold
was never about her personally or
about concerns with her qualifications.
In fact, I believe she is qualified for the
position. I placed a hold on her nomi-
nation because of serious problems at
the Department of Health and Human
Services affecting child welfare policies
that would fall in her area of jurisdic-
tion if she is confirmed. I think this in-
volves a matter the distinguished Pre-
siding Officer of the Senate might be
particularly interested in at this point.
I authored, with the former Finance
Committee Chair, Senator Orrin Hatch,
landmark families legislation called
the Family First Prevention Services
Act.
Family First, that Chairman Hatch
and I authored, is a once-in-a-genera-
tion bipartisan update of child welfare
laws in America, inspired to a great ex-
tent by Marian Wright Edelman, the
head of the Children’s Defense Fund.
The implementation of that law, in my
view, is moving too slowly.
Last week, the Department of Health
and Human Services followed through
on a request from me and a group of
colleagues from both parties and both
Chambers to open up the availability of
prevention programs for States that
Chairman Hatch and I felt so strongly
about under Family First. This was an
important first step, and, if Ms. Dar-
ling is confirmed, I expect to see the
Department take more.
What I would like to address for a
few minutes, though, is a deeply dis-
criminatory policy change that has
been made by the Trump administra-
tion in the child welfare system. Until
the Trump administration intervened,
Health and Human Services regula-
tions explicitly banned religious dis-
crimination in federally funded Social
Services programs, discrimination that
should be barred by our core constitu-
tional protections. Unfortunately,
under this administration, that safe-
guard is no more.
This year, the Trump administration
has set a precedent that foster care
agencies that receive Federal dollars
can turn away qualified prospective
foster parents simply because they are
Catholic, Jewish, Muslim, Hindu, Bud-
dhist, Mormon, or any other faith, or
simply because they are nonbelievers.
What this is all about, in short, is a
green light for taxpayer-funded dis-
crimination on the basis of religion. It
stems from a case involving Miracle
Hill Ministries, a foster agency in
South Carolina. Miracle Hill is a faith-
based social service organization—the
largest provider of foster care services
in South Carolina. It serves around 15
percent of the State’s foster care popu-
lation. I have no reason to doubt that
Miracle Hill has a lot of wonderful staff
and volunteers who wish to do a great
deal of good work.
Last year, the Governor of South
Carolina asked the Department of
Health and Human Services for a waiv-
er that would allow Miracle Hill to
continue receiving taxpayer dollars de-
spite its practice of turning away
qualified foster parents based solely on
their religious beliefs. In effect, it was
a request for a loophole to evade the
Federal policy banning religious dis-
crimination. The Department of Health
and Human Services OK’d it.
At a time—the Presiding Officer of
the Senate and I have talked about
this—when there are too many vulner-
able kids and too few safe foster homes
in America, the Trump administration
actually gave the largest foster care
organization in South Carolina permis-
sion to turn away prospective foster
parents because of their faith.
This is not an academic matter. Let
me give an example of the con-
sequences. In 2018, Beth Lesser—a
woman who unintentionally brought
this issue to light—went to Miracle
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.024 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5223
July 31, 2019
Hill Ministries to volunteer as a foster
mentor. Before she moved to South
Carolina, she was a foster parent in
Florida. You would think any foster
care organization would be thrilled to
have Ms. Lesser walk through their
door—an experienced foster care parent
coming to volunteer her time, her en-
ergy, and her love—but during orienta-
tion training, Miracle Hill found what
they consider to be a problem: Ms.
Lesser, like me, is Jewish. After Mir-
acle Hill discovered Ms. Lesser’s reli-
gion, they quickly turned her away.
Ms. Lesser is not the only person to
experience this discrimination. An-
other was Aimee Madonna, who grew
up in a foster care home and has three
kids of her own. She contacted Miracle
Hill and volunteered to open her home
in the screening process. But when Mir-
acle Hill learned that Ms. Madonna is
Catholic, she got turned away too. She
was devastated by the decision. In Feb-
ruary, she sued the State of South
Carolina and the Department of Health
and Human Services over this uncon-
stitutional discrimination. I commend
her for fighting for her rights, and I be-
lieve she speaks for people of so many
faiths whom I mentioned earlier.
I do want to explain why I find this
precedent the Trump administration
has set to be so objectionable, starting
with the most obvious.
It is horrendous policy because it is
going to hurt vulnerable kids all across
this country, particularly if and when
the Trump administration hands out
more waivers in more States. If they do
it this way, it is going to reduce the
number of safe and loving foster homes
available to youngsters in the child
welfare system. That is the wrong way
to go.
This policy is going to limit the di-
versity of foster homes and foster par-
ents and growing up around people of
different views and philosophies and re-
ligions. Diversity is important for kids.
That is particularly important for
LGBTQ youth, who make up one in five
kids in foster care. There are homes
where LGBTQ kids are not safe. They
benefit from the chance to grow up in
these more inclusive environments,
where there are more diverse families
who respect their sexual orientation
and their gender identity.
It raises troubling questions about
what is going to happen to children
who were raised outside of evangelical
Christianity before they entered the
child welfare system. What is going to
happen to a Jewish kid or a Muslim kid
or a Mormon kid who is placed in a
home where they are considered
heretics?
This is a personal matter for me.
That kid could have been me. I was so
proud of my parents. They fled the
Nazis in the thirties. Not all got out.
All my dad—just about the most red,
white, and blue fellow around—wanted
to do was serve in our Army so he
could drop propaganda pamphlets on
the Nazis, telling them they ought to
give up. You can read about my dad,
Peter Wyden, in the Holocaust Mu-
seum. I am so very, very proud of my
dad.
I thought about, for example, what
might have happened if my parents had
died in a car crash when I was 12 years
old and I had been put in one of these
evangelical families through a foster
agency that discriminates. I could have
been told that everything my wonder-
ful, patriotic, Jewish parents had
taught me to believe was wrong; that
my parents—that my dad, who was
honored in the Holocaust Museum—
that his beliefs were sinful. It would
have added a lot more difficulty to a
situation that was already traumatic.
The thought that children who have
lost their parents could have another
part of their identity stripped away is
appalling. That religious discrimina-
tion in particular, that fundamentally
un-American act—the idea that it is
going to be propped up with Federal
tax dollars is just wrong.
In my view, what the Trump admin-
istration has done with the South
Carolina waiver is unconstitutional. I
also believe it is the latest iteration of
a much larger assault on individual re-
ligious liberty.
From a legal perspective, the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services
justifies its discriminatory waiver by
pointing to the Religious Freedom Res-
toration Act, what is known as RFRA.
Here is the problem: That law was in-
tended to stop religious discrimina-
tion, not promote it. In this case, how-
ever, the administration is interpreting
that law to protect only the religious
freedom of Miracle Hill, not the free-
dom of Jewish or Catholic or Muslim or
Buddhist individuals who want to be-
come foster parents in South Carolina.
HHS’s waiver disregards the estab-
lishment clause in the First Amend-
ment of the Constitution, which pro-
hibits the government from ‘‘respect-
ing an establishment of religion.’’ This
is a Federal agency using taxpayer dol-
lars to elevate some religions above
others. That is unconstitutional every
way you cut it.
The consequences at this point are
limited to one State, but because of
this precedent, that is one too many. It
only takes one small step to set a
harmful, dangerous precedent that will
change everything. There are already
rumors that HHS plans to turn this
waiver into a nationwide policy. Make
no mistake about it—that would be na-
tionwide religious discrimination.
The consequences of an action like
that would reach far beyond our child
welfare system. It is not much further
down the road before out-and-out dis-
crimination against people of par-
ticular faiths, gender identities, and
sexual orientations under the guise of
religious freedom bleeds into other
areas of American life. These debates
are going to keep hitting the courts,
and they are going to keep confronting
the Congress. The Trump administra-
tion, Republican lawmakers, and Re-
publican judges are ensuring that will
happen.
I mentioned at the outset that this
debate is tied to a nomination the Sen-
ate may take up today—we will see
about later in the week. It involves the
Commissioner on Children, Youth, and
Families at Health and Human Serv-
ices. I made that judgment, after a lot
of reflection, that I am not going to
stand in the way of that vote. I believe
Ms. Elizabeth Darling is qualified. But
in making that judgment, I was not
willing to let today pass without
sounding an alarm on a very dangerous
precedent the Trump administration
has set in this field. This is about the
prospect of State-sponsored religious
discrimination. In this case, it is going
to come down hardest on vulnerable
kids in our country. I believe it is clear
that what is happening is unconstitu-
tional.
I will close by saying again that
there is bipartisan interest in improv-
ing our child welfare system. The dis-
tinguished Presiding Officer of the Sen-
ate is from Utah. I wish he could have
seen Chairman Hatch and me work to-
gether on Families First. As you know,
when Chairman Hatch got enthused
about something, he was really en-
thused.
Marian Wright Edelman came to
both of us. This had been her dream for
30 years, to try some fresh approaches
in terms of helping these kids. In ef-
fect, what Families First does is it cre-
ates a third option. You have kids in
homes where a parent might have got-
ten caught up in drugs or alcohol. We
can get them some help. There is the
foster care option. We have some very
good foster care facilities in this coun-
try, and we have some that aren’t ex-
actly so great. So what Chairman
Hatch and I said and what Democrats
and Republicans on the Finance Com-
mittee said and what eventually the
Congress on a bipartisan basis said was
‘‘We are going to do better by these
vulnerable kids,’’ and we created a
third option.
One of them is built on a dream that
I was part of. Back when I was director
of the Gray Panthers, we were advo-
cating for something called kinship
care where grandparents could play a
bigger role in stepping in and trying to
help these vulnerable families, where
maybe if a son had gotten in trouble
with the law or a daughter-in-law had
problems with alcohol and the like, the
grandparent could help out.
Under Families First, Chairman
Hatch, a Republican, and I, a Demo-
crat, said: We are going to try to help
those families. We are going to try to
give them help. If you have a son who
has had problems with alcohol and
drugs, they are going to be able to get
some help. The grandparents can step
in and get some help. We are going to
create more options for the most vul-
nerable families and most vulnerable
youngsters in America.
We were moving forward. We were
moving forward to be able to say—and
this, of course, is not driven from
Washington, DC; it is driven at the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.026 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5224 July 31, 2019
State level. The Presiding Officer of
the Senate is a former Governor. We
were moving forward. Now we have the
Trump administration seeking to move
backward.
There are nearly half a million kids
in foster care in this country. Demo-
crats and Republicans ought to keep
building on the work that Chairman
Hatch and I—and I was proud to be his
partner, with him as the chairman, in
this effort to help those kids stay safe
and get ahead in life. Now the Trump
administration is spending taxpayer
dollars not to help those kids but to
promote discrimination. That is not
the way to help these kids, not the way
to help these families. I hope my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle will
join me in opposing these policies of
discrimination.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TRIBUTE TO LIEUTENANT GENERAL AUNDRE
PIGGEE
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I rise
today to recognize a remarkable Ar-
kansan at the end of a 38-year Army
career.
LTG Aundre Piggee, who will retire
in September, is the Deputy Chief of
Staff of the Army for Logistics. His
nearly four-decade career has taken
him literally all over the world, but his
roots are and always have been in Ar-
kansas.
The general was born in Stamps, AR,
which is a small town in Lafayette
County with fewer than 3,000 people.
The son of a World War II Army vet-
eran, the general didn’t have his sights
set on a career of military service from
a young age. After graduating from
high school, he chose to go to the Uni-
versity of Arkansas Pine Bluff, which
is about 21⁄2 hours from home. He was a
smart kid, so he received an academic
scholarship to attend school.
There was no real reason for him to
choose to go into the ROTC. In fact, ac-
cording to him, the only reason he en-
tered the Army ROTC was because the
school allowed him to substitute it for
an otherwise mandatory physical edu-
cation class that would have required
him to walk all the way across the
campus. That seemingly mundane deci-
sion to save himself a few steps each
day and maybe allow him to sleep in a
few more minutes ended up being a
life-changing decision for him. It set
him on a path to an extraordinary ca-
reer that he probably couldn’t have
dreamed of at the time.
Years later, the general served in
jobs in Fort Hood, TX; Seoul, South
Korea; Kaiserslautern, Germany;
MacDill Air Force Base in Florida, and
many other places. He deployed to Ku-
wait, Bosnia, and Iraq. He commanded
thousands of soldiers and managed an
$11 billion Army portfolio. He led ca-
pacity-building efforts in Iraq and
headed train-and-equip missions in
Syria. He also directed logistics works
in the Middle East, North Africa, and
Central Asia. For his exemplary serv-
ice, the general earned the Legion of
Merit, the Bronze Star, the Distin-
guished Service Medal, and many other
recognitions.
Throughout all of his great accom-
plishments and prominent positions, he
has maintained a strong connection to
his alma mater and his Arkansas roots.
For his work with and on behalf of
his school, the current chancellor at
UAPB, Laurence Alexander, said of the
general:
He not only serves as a beacon of light and
hope to our university and our community,
but also to our state and our country. He
continues to positively impact the lives of
many, as well as inspiring a new generation
of future military leaders.
For all of his accomplishments, the
general was inducted into the Arkansas
Black Hall of Fame last year. Now he
has decided that it is time to take off
his Army uniform and pursue his next
adventure with his wife, Kassi.
The general has risen to such incred-
ible heights during his career. He is a
hero in the sense of his outstanding
military service, but more impor-
tantly, he is a hero in the sense that
when you talk about duty, honor, coun-
try, and integrity, he is the guy who is
a great example for all of us, one of the
best we can find and look to. I am so
proud to call him a fellow Arkansan
and a friend. On behalf of all Arkan-
sans, I wish him and his wife, Kassi,
much happiness in the next chapter of
their lives.
Thank you.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
IOWA
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, with Au-
gust just around the corner, countless
Iowans are preparing to fill up their
gas tanks—many with Iowa-grown
E15—and take to our scenic highways
for one last summer road trip. I can
tell you one thing: I will be hitting the
Iowa roadways myself, and I really
cannot wait, folks. Throughout the
month, I will be continuing on what I
call my 99 County Tour, an annual tra-
dition where I visit each and every one
of Iowa’s 99 counties. I will be logging
hundreds of miles and speaking with
thousands of Iowans.
It doesn’t get any better than head-
ing back home, getting out of this DC
swamp, and talking with folks about
the issues that matter most to them—
like solutions to lower prescription
drug prices, policies to help our farm-
ers and small businesses thrive, and ef-
forts to cut wasteful spending and to
make them squeal here in Washington.
So far, this year, my tour has
brought me to over 50 Iowa counties,
and I am aiming to visit another 30 or
so before Labor Day. I will be criss-
crossing the State, hosting townhalls
and visiting the small businesses,
farms, plants, and everyone else that
are currently creating jobs and con-
tributing to Iowa’s current economic
boom and record unemployment.
Meeting with and hearing from my
fellow Iowans is one of the best and
most important parts of my job. Our
elected officials should always be out
there listening to the people we work
for. It is our job, and it really does
make us more effective lawmakers.
For Iowans and folks across the Na-
tion planning to hit the road this Au-
gust, I hope you will take advantage of
all that Iowa has to offer. With 99
counties, it means 99 unique commu-
nities for road warriors and families to
visit and enjoy.
There are national treasures like the
Effigy Mounds National Monument, a
sacred site that is located in
Allamakee and Clayton Counties, fea-
turing more than 200 American Indian
mounds. There are historic gems like
the Herbert Hoover National Historic
Site in Cedar County and Lewis and
Clark State Park in Monona County.
I am sure folks will be willing to fill
their social media feeds with one-of-a-
kind Iowa attractions like the Amer-
ican Gothic House in Wapello County,
the world’s largest concrete gnome, in
Story County, and the famed Field of
Dreams in Dubuque County.
And who could forget the Iowa State
Fair, truly the best State fair in North
America and the crown jewel of Iowa
attractions, with everything from the
butter cow to peanut butter and jelly
on a stick, hot beef sundaes, and, of
course, good old-fashioned hotdogs. In
fact, the Iowa State fair lists over 69
foods on a stick. That is right. It is on
a stick, folks. You can try that at the
fair this August.
But while you are out on the road,
there are a few things that you will not
be able to avoid. First and foremost, it
is Democrats running for President.
Folks, they are everywhere in Iowa.
You will not miss them. You also can’t
avoid Casey’s Pizza. Why would you
want to? That is my question.
Now, inside the DC swamp, people
may turn their nose up at gas station
pizza—that is what it is, Casey’s
Pizza—but Iowans know it doesn’t get
any better than pizza from Casey’s.
One more thing Iowans will not be
able to avoid on the roads this August
is me. So, as I am out on my 99-county
tour this August, if you happen to see
me at a townhall or at a local business
or organization or maybe even gassing
up my Harley-Davidson at Casey’s or
waiting in line for a slice of pizza,
please be sure to stop and say hello.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.027 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5225
July 31, 2019
So, folks, hit the roads this August.
Make that one last trip with your fam-
ily. Get out and see those sites, and for
heaven’s sake, swing through Iowa.
Visit our Iowa-nice folks.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The Senator from Montana.
MONTANA
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, as we
are getting ready for a busy August
work period, I am very much looking
forward to spending time in Big Sky
Country back home in Montana, away
from the swamp, enjoying the beautiful
State that I am so lucky to call home.
In between meetings, I am taking a
few days to enjoy Montana’s great out-
doors, including spending 3 days back-
packing in the Beartooth Wilderness
with my sweet wife Cindy and a couple
of our dogs. As an avid outdoorsman, I
was raised to appreciate our public
lands, and I can assure you, nothing
beats going off the grid for a bit, where
there is no cell phone coverage on top
of the peaks, with my sweetheart and a
couple of our pups and enjoying Mon-
tana’s beauty, the fly rod with an elk
hair caddis and chasing cut and some-
times even goldens in Montana’s high-
est lakes.
I will also be spending a lot of time
on the road traveling all over Montana.
I get to each of Montana’s 56 counties
every congressional period, to every
corner of our State, from West Butte
down to Ekalaka, even Alzada, over in
Monida, up to the northwest corner of
our State to places like Libby, Troy,
and even Yaak.
I will also work to get to one of my
favorite places in Montana, the famous
Jersey Lilly in Ingomar. This place is
not well known. It is off the beaten
path. But the Jersey Lilly in Ingomar,
MT, is home to the best bean soup in
Big Sky Country. If you ever find your-
self in east central Montana, Rosebud
County, you have to get off of Highway
12 and stop in. I have known the owners
of that restaurant for many years—
Boots and June. There is a Montana
name for you—‘‘Boots.’’ They not only
serve up great food and even better
conversation, they are also yet another
example of a local family business—the
bedrock of our small towns and coun-
ties across Montana. The fine folks
over at the Jersey Lilly are what Mon-
tana is all about. It is about hard work,
family values, passion for their com-
munity, and passion for our great
country. I am a proud and frequent
customer of the Jersey Lilly, and I
can’t wait for the next bowl of bean
soup.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
MISSOURI
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, first of
all, I wanted to talk about everything
you could be doing in Missouri in the
next month or so with your family, and
then I was told I have 5 minutes. That
seems to be an impossible restriction
for me. So let me see how many things
I can talk about here as we end the
summer travel season. But there are
other people traveling after the sum-
mer. Some families still have their
summer vacation. Some schools start
after Labor Day, some before. I am
sure I will be leaving things out that I
will be glad to talk about at a later
time. Let me first just mention a cou-
ple of our national parks.
If you leave my hometown of Spring-
field, MO, and you head west, pretty
quickly you get to the Wilson’s Creek
National Battlefield park. There was a
battle in August of 1861. Several thou-
sand people fought who really weren’t
prepared to fight. They weren’t
trained. They weren’t ready. It was a
big battle that made a big difference in
what happened in Missouri in the war.
Not too far from there, you get to Di-
amond, MO, where there is the George
Washington Carver National Monu-
ment. It is a 240-acre park on the farm
where George Washington Carver grew
up. He was born as a slave but was
quickly freed and raised by the older
White couple who lived there. He man-
aged to get to school there a little bit
and in those years after the Civil War
became a leading scientist and spokes-
man for agriculture in the country.
This monument was established in 1943,
and it was the first national park dedi-
cated to an African American.
I have to circle back a little bit to
get to Branson. With 50 theaters in
Branson, there are more theater seats
than Broadway. It is never too early to
find a show you want to see in Branson.
In Silver Dollar City, in the summer
of last year, their great park was
named the No. 1 Christmas venue in
America to visit.
Now back to my hometown of Spring-
field, which is the way this comes up
on my list. It is the home of Bass Pro
Shops. The Wonders of Wildlife Na-
tional Museum and Aquarium right
there by Bass Pro was named ‘‘Amer-
ica’s Best Aquarium’’ by USA TODAY
Travel last year. That museum has
3,000 fish, birds, mammals, reptiles, and
amphibious animals there.
A park we just added to our National
Park System—I will pop right up to al-
most St. Louis, to St. Genevieve, where
you have French architecture that
dates back to the 1700s. This is the first
summer that there has been a full-time
park person there. This park is rising
out of what the community has pre-
served so well for so long. There are a
number of houses there that reflect
that early French architecture along
the Mississippi River.
South of there, at Perryville, is the
full-sized replica of the Vietnam Vet-
erans Memorial Wall. There have been
some traveling memorials, and there
are a couple of memorials that are
miniature in some way, but in Perry-
ville, MO, you can see a full-sized rep-
lica on a 47-acre family farm that Jim
Eddleman and his family made pos-
sible, along with other donations. I was
there not too long ago, and I was at the
Vietnam Wall here not too long ago.
They are in different places, but they
are the same wall, exactly the same
size, with the same names, and are the
same in every way.
On the other side of our State, in
Kansas City, is the Negro Leagues
Baseball Museum. Just this week, Sen-
ator KAINE and I introduced legislation
for a memorial coin to benefit the
Negro Leagues Baseball Museum in
Kansas City. Congressmen CLEAVER
and STIVERS in the House did the same
thing.
While you are in Kansas City here at
the end of the centennial of World War
I, the World War I Museum in Kansas
City was the World War I Memorial
dedicated in the 1920s. It is the No. 1
place in America to visit and think
about the war and the impact of that
war in the 100 years that have passed
since then.
If you want to go north to St. Joseph,
you, of course, pass some baseball sta-
diums and football fields that are good
places to visit if you are there at the
right time. In St. Joseph, there is the
Pony Express Museum. The Pony Ex-
press didn’t last very long, but it be-
came a very important part of the lore
of the West, these young riders—before
the telegraph—taking a message as
quickly as they could ride and chang-
ing from one rider to another to go
from St. Joe to California.
I wouldn’t want to leave out the
Mark Twain Boyhood Home in Han-
nibal. There was a time when Mark
Twain was by far the best-read Amer-
ican author anywhere in the world.
Hannibal is the setting for the classic
American novel ‘‘The Adventures of
Tom Sawyer.’’
We will circle right back down to the
Gateway Arch in St. Louis. More than
135 million people have visited the arch
since 1963. It just went through a major
overhaul and a 60-year renewal of the
facility, better connecting it to down-
town. It is the first example of what
the National Park Service hopes will
be the next century of the park, a true
public-private partnership.
In going to all these places, we drove
by lots of lakes and lots of fishing and
boating. There are a lot of things to do
in our State. Like many States, tour-
ism is our second biggest industry. We
look forward to people visiting us this
summer and next year and the years
after that.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
TENNESSEE
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
appreciate the opportunity to partici-
pate today and talk a little bit about
my State of Tennessee. I will tell you,
as we are talking about what we are
going to do and how we are going to be
working across our State during the
August work period and how we are
looking forward to having people visit
our State during that time, one of the
things that strikes me so very often
when people talk about Tennessee and
when they hear that I am from Ten-
nessee, they will stop and say: That is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.030 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5226 July 31, 2019
one of the most beautiful States. Our
State is beautiful, with its rivers,
lakes, rolling hills, mountains, and the
flatlands over toward Memphis. Indeed,
it is beautiful. It is also very long, and
that is also quite remarkable to people
when they start to drive through the
State. They say: I spent a whole day
driving through the State of Ten-
nessee. From the time they enter up
around Mountain City and Bristol and
make their way through to Memphis, it
does really take the whole day.
I think one of the things that inter-
est people when they cross into Ten-
nessee as they are going down I–81 is
seeing the Bristol Motor Speedway.
They realize that it is truly a feat of
engineering—NASCAR is very pop-
ular—and realize the innovation and
creativity that has gone into creating
that speedway. Then to be there on
race day, I will tell you, that is some-
thing that is quite amazing, to see
those cars speeding around those
banked turns and realize it is people
who are handling these feats of engi-
neering.
People also appreciate, in addition to
the Bristol Motor Speedway and car
racing, that Tennessee is a State that
is very important to the automotive
industry. You have Volkswagen in
Chattanooga, and you have the GM fa-
cility at Spring Hill. Nissan North
America’s headquarters are located in
Cold Springs, right outside of Nash-
ville. Their manufacturing plant is in
Smyrna. You have the Toyota plant
that is over in West Tennessee.
We Tennesseans are also excited
about the prospect of having an aero-
space park that is going to be in East
Tennessee, up at the Tri-Cities. As a
member of the Senate Commerce,
Science, and Transportation Com-
mittee, I have had the privilege of
working with the Tri-Cities Airport
and local officials to make that a des-
tination and to make it a reality.
A little further down in the State, as
you get on I–40, you will find yourself
in the middle of the Great Smoky
Mountains National Park, the most
visited park in our National Parks Sys-
tem. Senator ALEXANDER and I are con-
tinuing the work to designate the Dean
Stone Bridge on the Foothills Parkway
there in Blount County. Dean Stone
was a pillar of the community, and
naming the bridge in honor of him is
the perfect way to thank him for his
dedication in improving the lives of all
those who live and enjoy the Smokies
in that part of our State.
The Smokies are second in my heart
to just one Tennessee landmark in
Nashville that I think everyone wants
to see. They are all country music fans,
and they want to see the mother
church of country music, which is the
Ryman Auditorium. The best singers
and songwriters in the world leave
their stadiums and their festivals be-
cause they want to have the oppor-
tunity to play just one song on the
stage of the Ryman Auditorium. It is a
wonderful place to be and to celebrate
Tennessee’s creativity and to celebrate
the music that fills our hearts and our
lives.
When I was a Member in the House, I
worked tirelessly for several years and
fought for the unanimous passage of
the Music Modernization Act. That is
something that fixed a lot of loopholes
that were in U.S. law that adversely
impacted our songwriters as they were
facing copyright many times.
Upon coming to the Senate, I worked
with Senator FEINSTEIN, continuing
the fight on behalf of our songwriters
to close the loopholes that exempt
broadcast radio from paying royalties
to music creators.
Tennessee is also known for some
other wonderful music, a little bit fur-
ther down I–40, and that is the blues.
You can’t leave the State of Tennessee
without going through Memphis and
having a visit over on Beale Street,
right there on the banks of the mighty
Mississippi.
The Mississippi River is our Nation’s
original superhighway, if you will. It is
vitally important, not only to river but
to rail, air, and highway transpor-
tation networks. All of these have
found their way along West Ten-
nessee’s river lands.
Shipping and logistics giant FedEx
has its corporate headquarters in Mem-
phis. Memphis is the city of their
founding and their headquarters loca-
tion, and that takes advantage of Mem-
phis International Airport and their
cargo operations center.
All that being said, one of the things
that individuals repeatedly comment
on when they talk about Tennessee is
how nice the people are in Tennessee,
how welcoming they are, and how they
engage you and want to make certain
that you come back.
You will find in Tennessee a very di-
verse community. Yes, we are the
home to artists and athletes. We are
the home to engineers, to farmers, to
doctors, to soldiers, and to veterans. It
is, indeed, one of the best places on the
face of the Earth to call home and, in-
deed, a certain not-to-be-missed des-
tination for all Americans.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak for 10
minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ALASKA
Ms. MURKOWSKI. My colleagues
have been to the floor here for the past
little bit talking about various road
trips in their State and destinations,
including their favorite destinations.
When you think about where your fa-
vorite place is, it is like saying which
son is your favorite son. We all have
our favorite places all around our
State.
I got to thinking about road trips. I
thought, well, road trips in Alaska per-
haps take a little bit of a different
meaning than in other States. We all
know the State I come from because we
talk about it a lot. Senator SULLIVAN
and I come from a big State. We have
over 663,000 square miles, but within
those 663,000 square miles, we don’t
have a lot of roads. Over 82 percent of
the communities in the State of Alaska
are not connected by roads. We are not
part of the road system. So traveling in
Alaska can be a little bit of an adven-
ture. Flexibility is always key.
More often than not, when you are in
a big State, you move around from
town to town, and you rely on the com-
mercial carriers. You rely on Alaska
Airlines. You rely on Ravn. You rely on
some of the others. We pretty much
move around by air.
But sometimes it is impossible to get
around by air all the time. Sometimes
we have what I call ‘‘forest road trips.’’
It is not that I don’t want to be on our
roads, but once you get on the roads,
you are on them for a fairly long time.
Sometimes the jets don’t fly. Some-
times the jets don’t fly because you
have bad weather. Sometimes the jets
don’t fly because you have a volcano
that goes off.
I was holding a field hearing in Fair-
banks and needed to get down to An-
chorage, and Pavlof blew. Pavlof is one
of our more active volcanos, and it
shuts down the air space. What was
going to be a 45-minute trip home
turned out to be a 359-mile drive
home—7 hours—that evening.
We had another trip going out of
Valdez to Anchorage, and we needed to
get back to Anchorage that night, but
the fog and the wind in Valdez said
there are no planes coming in to take
you out, and they might not be there
the next day and they might not be
there the next day after that. There is
bad weather. The pass is shutting down
so you better move now. When that
happens, you get in a car and 300 miles
later—5 hours later—you are in An-
chorage.
I had Senator MANCHIN with me just
over the Fourth of July break. We were
headed from Anchorage to King Salm-
on to attend a ribbon-cutting for a Na-
tional Park Service facility. We got
fogged out in the morning and waited
for hours in the airport, and then we
got word that the fog had lifted, and we
were getting ready to get on a plane
and they called a mechanical. If there
is a mechanical, I am with you, and we
just don’t fly. Senator MANCHIN turned
to me and said: I know it is a long way,
but can’t we just drive there?
That was my opportunity to turn to
my colleague in another learning mo-
ment and tell him: No, this is one of
those 82 percent of our communities
where there is no road. So JOE, we are
not flying.
Aviation really is our lifeline here. If
you are not on Alaska Airlines, you are
on one of our many bush carriers. This
is a picture of a pilot I had an oppor-
tunity to fly with, Eric, who is the
pilot and owner of Arctic Backcountry
Flying Service. This is his Cessna 206.
More often than not, these are the type
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.032 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5227
July 31, 2019
of aircraft that we are in. We are not
flying in some fancy leased jet. We are
in a small aircraft, what we call a bush
carrier. That is when we have airstrips
that we can land on.
But we don’t have airstrips in many
of our communities. What we do is we
come in and out on the water on our
floatplanes. Some people call them sea-
planes out here. We call them
floatplanes.
Here is a picture of me and Secretary
Perry on Kodiak Island. We had flown
over on Alaska Airlines. But to get
around the island, you either take a
boat or fly in a floatplane. We were fly-
ing over to Old Harbor there on Kodiak
Island, but we got around on the water.
Sometimes you don’t have the water
though. In a place like Alaska, what we
do have in the wintertime is a fair
amount of snow. You take your floats
off and you put your skis on. You can
see the wheels there. This plane can
land in Anchorage and take off in An-
chorage on the wheels, but when you
are up on Ruth Glacier, as this Cessna
185 is, you are landing on skis. That
gets your attention because it is a lit-
tle bit different than a floatplane, but
it gets you in and out of what you need
to get in and out of.
There are some places, though, where
you don’t have an airstrip, a floatplane
can’t land, and the only way to really
get in and out is by helicopter.
Little Diomede Island sits out in the
middle of the Bering Straits. It is 2
miles from Big Diomede. Big Diomede
is owned by Russia. Little Diomede is
owned by us. There are about 150-plus
people who live out there on Diomede.
They have a school, and they have a
community center, but how do they get
the mail? People move in and out by
helicopter. The mail is delivered by
helicopter. There are a few weeks in
the wintertime—maybe, sometimes, as
much as a couple of months—when the
ocean freezes over and they can make a
strip where a plane can land on the ice.
But most of the year, you fly in and
out on helicopter. So we fly.
The other way we get around when
we don’t have a lot of roads is on our
rivers. One thing that Alaska is blessed
with is a lot of rivers. We have 365,000
miles of rivers. That makes for a lot of
roads because in the summertime,
those rivers are our roads.
This is a picture upriver in the vil-
lage of Napaskiak. There are about 500
people there. We had Attorney General
Barr with us in May. We took him
upriver. This is how he traveled. These
are the Bethel Search and Rescue boats
there. They are not fancy boats. They
are not yachts. These are functional.
They have decent motors on them be-
cause these are workhorses. Yet how
we travel in the summer is up and
down these rivers.
In the summer, it makes it possible
to move around these communities. In
the winter, you move around by snow
machine. You have trucks and you
have vehicles out there as well. When
the rivers freeze, you then have your
frozen highway, and you can have 100
miles of it. The Kuskokwim, I think,
plowed out 250 miles of road on the
river.
This is a frozen river. This is actually
a picture that was taken when we took
Secretary Moniz from Bethel to
Oscarville. We had with us about four
other Members of the Senate because
we had a field hearing for the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources. We held it out there in
Oscarville, and we had a motorcade on
ice. It was basically about six trucks
that went down the river, but the Sec-
retary said it was his first official
truck motorcade on ice. That really
does allow us to get around when the
rivers are frozen over.
Down in the southeastern part of the
State, where I was born and spent a lot
of my growing-up years, they are all
islanded communities. There are 32 or
33 islanded communities in the south-
east. So to move around, we either fly
Alaska Airlines, fly smaller carriers, or
we rely on our Alaska marine highway
system, our ferry system. This is our
marine lifeline. This is how we move
freight, how we move vehicles, how we
move goods, and how we move people.
Right now, our very system is threat-
ened on a host of different levels, which
really hurts my heart because, as one
who knows how dependent we are on
being able to move on the water, this is
our road, and these types of vessels can
move us in ways that are efficient. The
marine highway system is our road. So
we are working in the State right now
to address it. Again, this is one more
way that I do my road trips when I am
back home in the State.
In the interior, you have commu-
nities, again, that are isolated. There
is no road system that gets you there.
There are small villages, Arctic vil-
lages, that are about 500 people strong.
I was in an Arctic village just in
July, and this is how I was picked up at
the airport. There are not many
trucks. There are basically four-wheel-
ers. There are ATVs, and everybody
just hops on. This was my driver for
the day. Again, you just hop on the
back and ride.
Then, there are some communities in
which, really, the way that you get
around is not on a road and not on a
sidewalk but on just a wooden trail, a
wooden boardwalk. This is the village
of Napaskiak. This is out in the Bethel
region, in the Y-K Delta. These are just
planks that are put down on top of the
tundra because the area is so marshy
that you cannot walk on it. You would
need hip waders to be better able to
travel through it. Just walking around
on the boardwalk is the extent of your
road trip in a place like Nunam Iqua or
Napaskiak.
Whether it is freedom to be on a fro-
zen river or freedom to be out on the
Arctic Ocean, wintertime gives us a lit-
tle bit more freedom. This is a picture
of me with a friend, off of Utqiagvik,
which is on the Arctic Ocean. It looks
like a lot of fun. We were going out
snow-machining. We were going out to
work because the community had har-
vested a whale, and the whaling crew
and the community were taking their
snow machines out to load the muktuk
onto sleds to haul back to the commu-
nity so it could be shared as part of
their subsistence food. So we were
going out to help the community har-
vest that whale. This is not fun and
recreation. It is your means of trans-
portation. This is your workhorse.
We do have a little bit of fun every
now and again. Everyone asks: Do you
ever travel around by dog sled? That is
my dream. That would be the next ca-
reer opportunity for me. I would love
to run the Iditarod, and I would love to
have my own dog team, but, right now,
I don’t have enough hours in my day.
Yet, every now and again, you can hop
on the back of a dog sled.
I am looking forward to being back
home and traveling around the State,
visiting from Ketchikan to Barrow. It
is 4,000 miles for Senator SULLIVAN,
Congressman YOUNG, and me to get
back and forth between Washington,
DC, and Alaska. I have kind of mapped
out my trip for the month ahead. Once
I get back to Alaska, in that first cou-
ple of weeks, I will have doubled that
airtime, if you will. Then, with the ad-
ditional travel that we have toward the
end of August, I am looking at about
15,000 miles of travel within my State.
I know many of my colleagues are
going to exotic locations that will take
them to places that will be a long, long
ways away. Yet I am just reminded
every day of the privilege and the
honor of being able to travel through
an extraordinary State like Alaska,
where we use a little bit of everything
to get us to where we need to go in
order to visit some of the finest Ameri-
cans whom I know and am blessed to be
able to serve.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
OKLAHOMA
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, Au-
gust is coming quickly. It is the time
that we have a gap in the legislative
calendar. As this body knows well,
Congress is in session for 11 months of
the year. We have one month in which
we are not in Washington, DC, which
gives us the opportunity to be home
and to, quite frankly, catch up with
family but also to be able to travel
around our States, see what is going on
in our States, and talk to folks.
I happen to live in an unbelievably
beautiful State. In August, Oklahoma
is crazy hot and humid, but it is a
great time to get a chance to see peo-
ple and to see what is going on.
In just the few weeks around this
time period, I have already been to Ada
and Durant and Calera, and I will be
heading quickly to Chickasha, Lindsay,
Lawton, Vinita, Miami—that is not
‘‘Miam—ee’’; the correct pronunciation
is ‘‘Miam—ah’’—Afton, Grove, Jay,
Chelsea, Hennessey, Enid, up to Kaw
Lake, and, of course, all around the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.034 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5228 July 31, 2019
Oklahoma City area and all around
Tulsa, to spend as much time as I can
with as many different people as I can
to find out what is going on in Okla-
homa. I get this one precious month a
year to make sure I have focus time in
the State to see as many people as I
can.
I got to thinking about this and the
privilege that I have really had in
being able to travel around my State
and see so many people and so many
places, to get on Route 66, travel the
State from east to west, and see ex-
actly what is going on.
I have had the opportunity to be out
at the E.W. Marland Mansion in Ponca
City. I have had the opportunity to be
at Roman Nose State Park in Watonga.
I have climbed up to the top of Black
Mesa in Kenton, and I have been to the
lowest point, by sea level, in far south-
east Oklahoma in Broken Bow. I have
been out to Mount Scott in Lawton and
have climbed on its tumbled rocks. I
have been to the Blue Whale in
Catoosa.
I have had the great privilege of get-
ting a chance to walk around through
the Gathering Place in Tulsa. This is
an absolutely spectacular park and
gathering place. In fact, USA Today
just named it the No. 1 new attraction
in America. For folks who have not
been to Tulsa or for the folks who have
been to Tulsa before, they need to go
back and just enjoy the Gathering
Place.
I have had the opportunity to walk
the streets around Black Wall Street
and to visit with the fine folks who are
there. I have had the opportunity to be
in Davis at Turner Falls and the Ar-
buckle Mountains, and, of course, Falls
Creek. I have had the opportunity to be
in Hochatown, which is down near Bro-
ken Bow Lake, and the chance just to
enjoy the time there, around the tall
trees, in beautiful southeast Okla-
homa. I have had the opportunity to
visit Lake Murray State Park in Ard-
more and visit the Ole Red restaurant
in Tishomingo. I have driven the
Talimena National Scenic Byway in
the fall and have seen the spectacular
scenery in those mountains. I have
been to the Robbers Cave in Wilburton
and the Ouachita National Forest in
McCurtain County.
I have had the opportunity to walk
around through the Heavener
Runestone area and see the Norse Vi-
king carved stones that are there in
eastern Oklahoma. I could see, most
definitely, by far, amongst those high
trees and those rolling hills, that I
wasn’t the first person to go there.
I have been to the Round Barn, off
Route 66 in Arcadia. I have stopped to
get a great hamburger at Pop’s, which
is there on Route 66. I have quietly
stood at the national Oklahoma City
Bombing Memorial in downtown Okla-
homa City, and I have seen the amaz-
ing western art at the National Cowboy
& Western Heritage Museum. I have
walked through the Oklahoma Sports
Hall of Fame and the Oklahoma Hall of
Fame.
You can’t go through Oklahoma
without stopping at Cattlemen’s
Steakhouse and enjoying a great steak
or without driving out west to see the
Stafford Air & Space Museum. People
who travel to Washington, DC, go to
the Air and Space Museum, and I will
often smile at them and say: Do not
miss the Air & Space Museum that is
in Weatherford, OK, because the Staf-
ford Air & Space Museum has a re-
markable collection from a fantastic
Oklahoma astronaut.
The Great Salt Plains in Jet and the
Oklahoma Territorial Museum in
Guthrie are also really remarkable
places.
I do have to brag about a spot be-
cause, on my 50th birthday, my wife
surprised me by our taking a trip to
the Little Sahara State Park and the
sand dunes in northern Oklahoma. We
rented dune buggies and drove them as
hard and fast as we wanted on that
day. It was a great day to just enjoy
Oklahoma. It was just like the day I
was able to drive to Pawhuska and eat
at the Pioneer Woman Mercantile res-
taurant and just enjoy the downtown
area.
It is really a fantastic State, and the
people and the places that I miss while
I am here in Washington, DC, for 11
months of the year I look forward to
getting a chance to see when I get back
home in August. With as much work as
we have to get done here—and we still
have a lot of work to get done—we will
spend some time on the phone, we will
walk through legislation, and we will
continue to do writing. Yet, thank-
fully, I will be able to write and spend
time on the phone while I look out my
windshield and enjoy some Oklahoma
scenery at the same time.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
pursuant to yesterday’s authority, the
Senate will now vote on the following
nominations: Executive Calendar Nos.
48, 55, and 351.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report Calendar No. 48.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Karin J.
Immergut, of Oregon, to be United
States District Judge for the District
of Oregon.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Immergut nomination?
The nomination was confirmed.
Mr. HAWLEY. Mr. President, I op-
pose the confirmation of U.S. District
Court nominee Karin Immergut. She
went through the committee confirma-
tion process in 2018, before I joined the
Senate Judiciary Committee, and sub-
sequently, she was part of a package of
judges who were renominated and
voted out earlier this year. I later
learned that the nominee had issued a
questionable abortion opinion and is
pro-choice.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report Calendar No. 55.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of John Milton
Younge, of Pennsylvania, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Younge nomination?
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report Calendar No. 351.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Mary M. Row-
land, of Illinois, to be United States
District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Illinois.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Rowland nomination?
The nomination was confirmed.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table and the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, at 3
p.m. today, the Senate will vote on
confirmations of the following nomina-
tions: Executive Calendar Nos. 205, 231,
232, 345, 350, 364, and 402.
I ask unanimous consent that if the
nominations are confirmed, the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table and the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the
Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Execu-
tive Calendar No. 205 is the pending
question.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Pittman nomi-
nation?
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask for the yeas and nays.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.036 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5229
July 31, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS), the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator
from California (Ms. HARRIS), the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), and the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN).
(Mr. TILLIS assumed the Chair.)
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 54,
nays 36, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 253 Ex.]
YEAS—54
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—36
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—10
Bennet
Booker
Burr
Coons
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the re-
maining votes be 10 minutes in length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The votes will be 10 minutes in length.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Jeffrey Vincent Brown, of
Texas, to be United States District
Judge for the Southern District of
Texas.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Brown nomination?
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS), the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator
from California (Ms. HARRIS), the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), and the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 50,
nays 40, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 254 Ex.]
YEAS—50
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—40
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—10
Bennet
Booker
Burr
Coons
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
The senior assistant bill clerk read
the nomination of Brantley Starr, of
Texas, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of
Texas.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Starr nomination?
Mr. ALEXANDER. I ask for the yeas
and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS), the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator
from California (Ms. HARRIS), the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), and the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 51,
nays 39, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 255 Ex.]
YEAS—51
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—39
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—10
Bennet
Booker
Burr
Coons
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Jason K. Pulliam, of Texas, to be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.038 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5230 July 31, 2019
United States District Judge for the
Western District of Texas.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Pulliam nomination?
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS), the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator
from California (Ms. HARRIS), the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), and the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 54,
nays 36, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 256 Ex.]
YEAS—- 54
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—- 36
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—- 10
Bennet
Booker
Burr
Coons
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Martha Maria
Pacold, of Illinois, to be United States
District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Illinois.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Pacold nomination?
Mr. CRUZ. Madam President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS), the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator
from California (Ms. HARRIS), the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), and the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 87,
nays 3, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 257 Ex.]
YEAS—87
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—3
Hirono Markey Menendez
NOT VOTING—10
Bennet
Booker
Burr
Coons
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of William Shaw Stickman IV,
of Pennsylvania, to be United States
District Judge for the Western District
of Pennsylvania.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Stickman nomination?
Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President, I
ask for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS), the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator
from California (Ms. HARRIS), the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), and the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 56,
nays 34, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 258 Ex.]
YEAS—56
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—34
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
King
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—10
Bennet
Booker
Burr
Coons
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the Craft nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Kelly Craft, of
Kentucky, to be the Representative of
the United States of America to the
United Nations, with the rank and sta-
tus of Ambassador Extraordinary and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.042 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5231
July 31, 2019
Plenipotentiary, and the Representa-
tive of the United States of America in
the Security Council of the United Na-
tions.
Thereupon, the Senate proceeded to
consider the nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Craft nomination?
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. BURR) and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAK-
SON).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS), the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator
from California (Ms. HARRIS), the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), and the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily ab-
sent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 56,
nays 34, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 259 Ex.]
YEAS—56
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—34
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—10
Bennet
Booker
Burr
Coons
Gillibrand
Harris
Isakson
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motions to re-
consider are considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
The Senator from Mississippi.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The remarks of Senator HYDE-SMITH
and Senator WICKER pertaining to the
submission of S. 2410 are printed in to-
day’s RECORD under ‘‘Submitted Reso-
lutions.’’)
Mr. WICKER. I yield the floor.
f
TRIBUTE TO DARREN WALKER
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, on Sun-
day, May 19, 2019, I was honored to at-
tend the 218th commencement cere-
mony at the University of Vermont,
where my wife Marcelle was presented
with an honorary doctorate degree and
recognized for her many years of public
service. The commencement speaker,
Darren Walker, made this wonderful
day even better when he delivered a
truly moving address. By recounting
his personal story, examining the chal-
lenges our Nation faces, and cele-
brating the achievements of the recent
graduates, Darren implored us to view
our differences as a strength and our
division as a liability to our collective
futures. It is with great appreciation
that I recognize Darren for his commit-
ment to social justice and thank him
for sharing such an eloquent and uni-
fying message with us on that day.
As the president of the Ford Founda-
tion, Darren oversees a $13 billion en-
dowment and $600 million in annual
grant making for international social
justice philanthropy projects. He has
served as the vice president of the
Rockefeller Foundation, as the chief
operating officer of the Abyssinian De-
velopment Corporation, and has spent
more than a decade working in the
fields of international law and finance.
Prior to all of this success, however,
Darren was raised in the humblest of
conditions by a single mother in rural
Texas, where he attended public
schools, and battled racism and
homophobia, to set himself on a path
toward what he says is the great honor
of serving as president of the Ford
Foundation.
I ask unanimous consent to have
Darren Walker’s Address to the Univer-
sity of Vermont Class of 2019 printed in
the RECORD. I encourage all Senators
to read these moving remarks, with the
hope that we can transcend our dif-
ferences and focus on the shared values
and aspirations that unite us.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DARREN WALKER ADDRESS TO THE CLASS OF
2019, UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT
218TH UNIVERSITY COMMENCEMENT CEREMONY
BURLINGTON, VERMONT—SUNDAY, MAY 19, 2019
To President Sullivan; Provost Prelock;
Senator Leahy and Governor Scott; distin-
guished vice presidents and deans; faculty
and staff; and—most importantly—to the
University of Vermont Class of 2019: Con-
gratulations!
Graduates: I know how hard you’ve worked
to earn the achievement we honor today. I
also know your success required a lot of love,
devotion, and commitment from the people
in your life, who helped you achieve this
major milestone. So, Class of 2019: Please
join me in thanking your parents—and all of
the family, friends and teachers who have
helped you on your journey. This day is
about you—but it’s also about honoring
them.
Today is special for many reasons. It’s a
celebration of excellence—and of the promise
your future holds. It’s the end of one chap-
ter—and the beginning of another.
But today is also special for an additional
reason.
You came to his magical community called
Burlington, Vermont, from different places.
Different towns, and states and countries
around the world. You came to your degree
by different paths. Took different courses in
different majors. Even when you were on the
same campus, you spent time with different
people, engaged in different activities. And
after today, you will go off in your different
directions. To different jobs, different cities
and towns, entirely different lives.
And yet, here we are. Together. And the
fact that we are together—at this time, in
this place—is remarkable.
It’s remarkable because this is a unique,
wonderful moment in your lives. But it’s
also remarkable because, in this new digital
world, we are too often led to believe that
our differences are reasons for division, rath-
er than unity.
Class of 2019, this is a defining char-
acteristic of our digital era: Whether it’s al-
gorithms that segment and select the infor-
mation we see based on our previous clicks
and likes; or media outlets incentivized to
confirm our beliefs, rather than deliver facts
that help educate us and make us better citi-
zens; or political leaders who rally the ex-
tremes, rather than serve a common good.
As a result of all this, we jump to judge-
ment—and disagreement too often turns to
dehumanization. We miss opportunities to
turn difficult and challenging moments into
teachable ones, from which we can learn and
grow. We lose touch with the shared values,
and shared experiences, and shared aspira-
tions that bind us together in this country
and make us who we are.
My message to you today is this: It doesn’t
need to be this way—and it hasn’t always
been. And I know this to be true, from my
own journey.
You see, many aspects of who I am as a
person, as an American, might be labeled as
‘‘different.’’ I am black. I am gay. I live in
Manhattan, that tiny island moored off the
coast, and a little unmoored from reality.
And I spend much of my time traveling
across the country and around the world,
meeting visionary, courageous, resilient peo-
ple fighting poverty, inequality, and injus-
tice. All of these things—the things that
make me different—define who I am.
And there are parts of my story, that
equally define me, that are harder to see,
which also make me different.
I was born to a single mother in a charity
hospital. We lived in a shotgun shack in a
small, rural community in East Texas.
I attended public schools and colleges. I
was in the first class of Head Start in 1965,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.045 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5232 July 31, 2019
received Pell Grants, and private scholar-
ships.
As an African American growing up in the
south, I certainly encountered bitter racism.
But I also benefited from enormous gen-
erosity—from people who provided me with
support, and encouragement, and who be-
lieved in my potential.
You see, in spite of the differences I pre-
sented, and the challenges I encountered, I
always felt that my country, that America,
had my back. I had good people of good will
cheering me on and pushing me forward.
Indeed, my story is an American story. It’s
a story of what is possible, of what can hap-
pen, when ‘‘we the people,’’ live up to our
highest ideals. And when we do fulfill these
ideals, the fact of our differences does not
hold us back, in the very same way that the
fact of our differences is not really what di-
vides us.
Class of 2019: The differences among us and
the divisions between us: These are separate
things. One does not inevitably lead to the
other.
We are different, yes. But our differences
are our strength.
Our division, on the other hand, is a liabil-
ity—a liability that has been exacerbated
and exploited, I believe, because of the corro-
sive, inequality that today is widening in
American society.
More than what we look like, or where we
come from, or how we worship, inequality is
what is tearing our communities and coun-
try asunder.
Economic inequality asphyxiates the very
American idea of economic and social mobil-
ity. It creates unprecedented wealth gaps,
sorting us into circles where we only engage
with people of similar means and perspec-
tives.
Persistent racial and gender inequality
cause the sins of our history to infect the
present and imperil the future.
Inequality helps explain the gaps between
the experience of rural Americans and urban
Americans—and entrenches the polarization
in our political institutions.
And inequality doesn’t just cause our chal-
lenges. It also prevents us from joining to-
gether to solve our common problems.
It undermines our hope for the future and
erodes our faith in one another. Because of
it, we are less willing to trust one another.
Less willing to extend the benefit of the
doubt. Too often, we rush to judgement, as-
suming the worst intentions of others.
Now, I’m not naive. There are people for
whom hate, and harm is the intention. From
Charlottesville to Pittsburgh, we have wit-
nessed the painful, pernicious impact of
hate. And while there certainly are racists,
anti-Semites, homophobes and prejudice in
America today, this is not the character of
who we are as a nation. Most Americans be-
lieve in ideals of equality and justice for
all—and in order for these ideas to be real-
ized we must stand up to emboldened big-
otry.
And so, graduates: I ask you, I implore
you, not to build walls, but to build bridges
and to build relationships, because when I re-
flect on my own story, I know I did not get
here alone.
None of us have.
It was not the simple fact of my presence,
or superficial measures of diversity or inclu-
sion, that led me to the great honor of serv-
ing as president of the Ford Foundation, or
to the great honor of addressing you today.
It was often people who were very different
from me extending their humanity, and gen-
erosity, and their privilege to help me—leav-
ing their comfort zones behind; spanning a
divide.
It was people I didn’t know—or came to
know only later—who had faith in me, who
invested in me, who sustained me on my
American journey.
My story is proof of what can happen when
people choose to transcend their differences,
and build bridges, and build relationships.
You, too, are proof. And, on its best days, so
is this country I love.
America always has been the product of
people choosing to bind themselves together.
Actively choosing. We are ‘‘We the people.’’
We are e pluribus unum—out of many, one.
Because of our differences, we can ascend
from cooperation, to collaboration, to inno-
vation. Out of our differences, there is hope.
Out of difference, there can be unity. Out of
difference, equality and justice.
And it’s bigger than the United States.
This issue transcends boundary and geog-
raphy. Out of many countries, we are one
planet—with one future.
Which brings me back to where I started:
The celebration of difference—and all of the
possibility that difference unleashes.
Out of many paths—out of many grad-
uates—you are one class. And while you have
many careers and choices in front of you, I
hope you keep one objective in mind: To
make this a more just—a fairer world.
So, I ask you: What bridges will you build?
What new relationships will you initiate?
What justice will you serve? What will you
make possible for someone else?
Many of the bridges you cross will not be
physical structures of concrete or steel.
They will be relationships you forge, through
hard work and attention, respect and care,
listening and love. And the best relation-
ships are those in which you can be yourself
and better yourself.
If my experience is any indication, this is
especially true of relationships with grad-
uates of this great university. My partner in
life of 26 years, David Beitzel was a proud
member of UVM’s class of 1980. He passed
away suddenly in January.
David taught me so much about life, and
our common humanity. We were very dif-
ferent. We hailed from very different places
and backgrounds. But we found each other
despite those differences—and enriched each
other’s lives because of them.
Relationships with other people—friend-
ships and family, professional, romantic, in-
cidental and intentional—all are essential,
no matter how different we may seem to be.
They strengthen our empathy, our compas-
sion, our humanity, and widen our perspec-
tives.
If we build bridges and bonds of connec-
tion, then when injustice affects one of us,
we know—deeply, personally—that it affects
all of us. When we bind ourselves to others—
when we recognize that our fates are bound
together—we can put the small things aside.
We can make a world where stories like mine
are more probable, more likely, more com-
mon. We can shrink the gaps of inequality
and grow justice in its place.
It will not be easy, class of 2019. Justice
takes time. It takes work. It takes love. And
it takes risk.
But I hope you find ways to build these
bridges. I hope you find ways to listen and be
curious—to be present and proximate. I hope
you embrace difference—and reject division.
Class of 2019: I know you will answer the
call—and I know the future will be much bet-
ter for it. It’s yours for the taking and the
making, as of right now.
Congratulations. Good luck. And Godspeed.
f
AMERICA’S TRANSPORTATION
INFRASTRUCTURE ACT
Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, I rise in
support of America’s Transportation
Infrastructure Act, a bill we on the En-
vironment and Public Works Com-
mittee passed today with broad bipar-
tisan support.
Our bill contains the largest funding
commitment in highway authorization
history. It grows our economy, en-
hances roads and bridges, improves
transportation safety, provides funds
for necessary projects, eliminates bur-
densome regulation, promotes innova-
tion, and invests in our Tribal lands.
Our EPW chairman said the bill
would ‘‘enhance quality of life for the
American people.’’ Our ranking mem-
ber believes it ‘‘can endure the test of
time and keep up with the evolving de-
mands of a 21st century global econ-
omy.’’ I agree with their assessments,
and as a member of EPW, I want to
thank them for listening to our prior-
ities and collaborating with each of us.
Since joining the Senate, I have ex-
pressed my belief that divided govern-
ment presents an opportunity for us to
achieve mutually beneficial goals and
shared priorities. President Trump,
myself, and my colleagues in Congress
agree on the importance of investing in
our Nation’s infrastructure. This bill is
proof that we can work together in a
bipartisan manner on behalf of the
American people.
More important to me than anything
else, our bill also reflects the needs of
my great State of North Dakota. As a
large, rural State built on agriculture
and natural resources, we are heavily
dependent on our extensive infrastruc-
ture to get our goods to market.
With that in mind, I reached out our
stakeholders at the very beginning of
this process to glean their perspective.
We received input and comments from
city, county, and State leaders all
across North Dakota, expressing their
desire for a highway bill reauthoriza-
tion that works best for our State.
Their feedback and priorities are
very important to me. While not all of
their requests were met, I want them
to know their voices were heard. I
therefore ask unanimous consent for
the letters they sent us to be printed in
the RECORD following my remarks. Full
versions of each of these letters can be
found on my official website.
I would also like to take a moment
to highlight some of the bright spots in
this legislation.
First, at $287 billion, this is the larg-
est highway bill in history. North Da-
kotans made it clear: They want a real,
long-term reauthorization that does
more than the status quo and actually
invests in our Nation’s roads and
bridges.
Second, 90 percent of these funds will
be distributed to the States via for-
mula. That is incredibly important to
large, rural States like North Dakota.
The main point for the formula is that
it is not discretionary, so it is stable,
predictable funding. We have vast
stretches of highway system that con-
tribute greatly to our Nation’s econ-
omy and interstate commerce. Despite
our low population, rural States con-
tribute much more to the highway
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.020 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5233
July 31, 2019
trust fund per capita than the rest of
the country. In fact, North Dakota con-
tributes the second-highest amount in
the country, roughly three times more
than the national average. Maintaining
the current formula ensures that our
State’s contribution is acknowledged
and paid back to us in a consistent, un-
biased manner, giving North Dakota
steady funding and flexibility to
prioritize our State’s transportation
needs. Under this bill, transportation
funding has increased by 27 percent,
and North Dakota will receive nearly
$1.6B over the next 5 years, which is
welcome news to communities back
home.
Third, America’s Transportation In-
frastructure Act cuts duplicative bu-
reaucracy and delays. For example, it
establishes a 2-year goal for com-
pleting environmental reviews, a 90-
day timeline for related project au-
thorizations, and an accountability
system for these projects. The days of
half-finished, never-ending projects
must come to an end. This bill ac-
knowledges that. In addition, it creates
incentives to lessen carbon emissions
and reduce methane and energy waste.
Lastly, this bill includes multiple
provisions I have cosponsored. The bi-
partisan USE-IT Act, which
incentivizes carbon capture and seques-
tration technology, is included in this
package; as is the Addressing Under-
developed and Tribally Operated
Streets Act, also known as the AUTOS
Act. The AUTOS Act, sponsored by my
fellow North Dakota Senator JOHN
HOEVEN, would enhance the safety of
roads on Indian lands by streamlining
existing federal procedures and in-
creasing funding to repair roads and
bridges in Indian country.
These just a few of the many aspects
of our bill that I support. As I have
demonstrated, this is an economically
and environmentally responsible bill.
It is a win for both sides of the aisle
and a win for our country. I am grate-
ful our committee was able to take this
first step today. I encourage my col-
leagues in the House to be proactive
and to avoid procrastinating until the
last minute. Let’s work together in a
timely fashion to deliver a significant
investment for the constituents we
serve.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
NORTH DAKOTA
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION,
Bismarck, ND, February 19, 2019.
North Dakota Priorities for the Next High-
way Reauthorization Bill.
Hon. KEVIN CRAMER,
U.S. Senator,
Washington, DC.
We appreciate the opportunity to offer
input on State Priorities for the Next High-
way Reauthorization Bill. Below are some
key points that are vital to transportation
funding in North Dakota:
Good infrastructure, including highways,
is important for North Dakota and the Na-
tional Economy.
This allows us to efficiently move agricul-
tural, manufactured goods, and energy re-
sources to the World Markets.
Increases personal mobility.
Promotes safety.
Legislation must provide North Dakota a
share of Federal highway and transit for-
mula programs at least as high as it receives
today.
Current level of fuel tax is not keeping up
with current needs.
Allows states the flexibility to efficiently
plan for projects.
Disruptive technologies (such as autono-
mous, hybrid, and electric vehicles) are hav-
ing an impact on the amount of revenue gen-
erated for transportation.
Congress should continue the distribution
of highway and transit program funds by for-
mula.
Historically, North Dakota has not been
very successful with the competitive grant
programs such as TIGER and INFR.
Maintain the current Federal share of
project cost—80/20
Public Private Partnerships do not work
well in rural states.
The volume of traffic in rural states is not
sufficient to attract private investments in
roadway infrastructure (Example: tolling).
THOMAS K. SOREL,
Director.
DOUG BURGUM,
Governor.
ASSOCIATED GENERAL CONTRACTORS
OF NORTH DAKOTA,
Bismarck, ND, February 22, 2019.
Hon. KEVIN CRAMER,
U.S. Senator,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR CRAMER: Thank you for the
opportunity to offer input from our indus-
try’s perspective for the next Highway Reau-
thorization Bill. We applaud the EPW com-
mittee for beginning these discussions in ad-
vance of the 2020 expiration of the current
act.
A strong federal program is extremely im-
portant for a geographically large, yet
sparsely populated state like North Dakota.
We simply do not have the critical mass to
fund the transportation needs on the state/
local level. The current administration
seems to favor more local participation but
we’d caution the utilization of that to areas
where it is feasible and not a detriment.
Maintaining the 80/20 federal/state split is
imperative in a state like North Dakota. Pri-
vate Public Partnerships work well in higher
populated areas but they are not feasible in
North Dakota. Being rural and sparsely pop-
ulated make the interest of private entities
nearly impossible.
Funding solutions for the Highway Trust
Fund is long overdue and the user fee of the
federal motor fuel tax has not generated
enough revenue to fund the program for
many years. It needs to be addressed and
soon. The 18.4 cent per gallon user fee has
not been adjusted since October 1, 1993. The
decline in buying power is obvious and better
fuel economy of vehicles adds to the issue.
Adjusting it upward makes sense to us.
Looking at any other funding options should
also be considered. In our previous Congres-
sional visits, AGC of ND representatives
have provided an outline of various funding
options. We’d be happy to provide them
again if interested.
With an extremely short construction sea-
son in our state, it is imperative the ND DOT
have certainty for federal funding payments.
Too many times, there have been delays in
sending the appropriations which lead to de-
layed bid lettings. This is a significant issue
in North Dakota. Even a one month delay
can cause huge issues in completing projects.
Those are but a few of our suggestions for
the next federal highway act. Again, we ap-
preciate the opportunity to submit them and
are available for any subsequent delibera-
tions.
Sincerely,
RUSS HANSON,
Executive Vice President.
FARGO-MOORHEAD METROPOLITAN
COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS,
Fargo, ND, March 6, 2019.
Subject: Reauthorization of the Surface
Transportation Bill (Highway Bill).
Senator KEVIN CRAMER,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR CRAMER: The Fargo-Moor-
head Metropolitan Council of Governments
(FM Metro COG) is very grateful for the op-
portunity to share our input about the sur-
face transportation reauthorization bill.
Metro COG serves as the Metropolitan Plan-
ning Organization (MPO) for all jurisdictions
within the Fargo-Moorhead metropolitan
area, including the North Dakota jurisdic-
tions of Cass County, Fargo, Horace, and
West Fargo, which are all in our designated
urbanized area, and Casselton, Mapleton, and
Harwood in our metropolitan planning area.
In Minnesota, our urbanized area includes
Clay County, Dilworth and Moorhead, and
our metropolitan planning area includes
Glyndon, Hawley, Sabin, and Barnesville.
On behalf of the local jurisdictions, Metro
COG administers the federal transportation
and transit planning funds received by our
metropolitan area and carries out the re-
quired planning and programming activities
to ensure a continuing, cooperative and com-
prehensive transportation planning process.
Our Policy Board, made up of local elected
officials and planning commissioners, rep-
resents citizens throughout the metropolitan
area.
Our input on reauthorization of the surface
transportation bill is as follows:
Retain the Transportation Management
Area population threshold of 200,000. The
Highway Bill establishes the population
threshold of 200,000 as the point when an
MPO may choose to become a Transpor-
tation Management Area (TMA). Our metro-
politan area has exceeded this threshold, and
will officially exceed it as part of the 2020
Census. Local leaders have been looking for-
ward to becoming a TMA and carrying out
planning efforts that will ensure we are in
good standing to meet TMA requirements
when the time comes. We ask that the
threshold remain at a population of 200,000.
Retain local flexibility in the use of High-
way Funds. The FAST Act allowed our local
leaders a certain amount of flexibility in the
use of Highway Funds to help update our
transit vehicle fleet, thus keeping the fleet
in manageable condition from a maintenance
standpoint. This flexibility has been seri-
ously considered and put to good use in our
metropolitan area, and we request that this
type of flexibility be retained, and even in-
creased in the reauthorization bill.
THE CITY OF FARGO,
Fargo, ND, March 1, 2019.
Re Surface Transportation Reauthorization
Bill (Highway Bill).
Senator KEVIN CRAMER,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR CRAMER: I sincerely appre-
ciate the opportunity to weigh in on the next
surface reauthorization bill. The City of
Fargo has benefitted tremendously from the
current Highway Bill and I strongly support
future appropriations. Previous allocations
have allowed the City of Fargo, and the
North Dakota Department of Transpor-
tation, to construct and maintain high qual-
ity, long lasting infrastructure projects by
allocating upwards of $10–$12 million annu-
ally. Without these necessary funds, our citi-
zens and businesses would be burdened with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.017 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5234 July 31, 2019
higher taxes that would undoubtedly stifle
our growth.
As Fargo continues to grow and moves
closer to becoming a TMA (Transportation
Management Association) long term, sus-
tainable funding sources will become even
more important to ensure that Fargo re-
mains an economic engine in the Upper Mid-
west. For this reason, among many others, I
strongly support the reauthorization of the
next surface transportation bill.
Sincerely,
BRENDA E. DERRIG, PE,
City Engineer.
CITY OF VALLEY CITY,
Valley City, ND, March 4, 2019.
Hon. KEVIN CRAMER,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR CRAMER: Please accept this
letter as an expression of support on behalf
of the City of Valley City, North Dakota for
the reauthorization of the FAST Act. In my
role as Mayor, I can attest to the fact that
infrastructure funding in this critical piece
of legislation is a key priority for our com-
munity.
At the local level, the City of Valley City
funds transportation infrastructure projects
through special assessments and the local
renew and replacement fund (R&R) which
uses sales tax and utility fees. To fund crit-
ical infrastructure projects, voters passed a
half percent sales tax in 2007 and an addi-
tional half percent sales tax in 2010 for a
total of 1 percent dedicated for infrastruc-
ture.
At the state level, legislators are currently
debating a bill commonly referred to as ‘‘Op-
eration Prairie Dog’’ which is designed to
provide and increase in infrastructure fund-
ing to townships, cities, and counties
throughout North Dakota.
Despite significant efforts on the local and
state level to fund infrastructure needs, fed-
eral funding can often be the determining
factor as to whether or not many projects
come to fruition. Uncertainty of federal
funding after the FAST Act’s expiration in
2020 would jeopardize many needed infra-
structure projects in our community and
state. Many communities, like the City of
Valley City, rely on the certainty provided
by an entirely funded and planned federal
highway bill. A reauthorization would mean
more projects in North Dakota and the City
of Valley City can proceed, much like those
successfully funded by the current FAST Act
and other authorizations preceding it.
Our community has seen success through
critical programs such as the Transportation
Alternatives (TA) program and the Urban
Grant Program (UGP), and we urge you to
consider those programs favorably through-
out the legislative process.
Should you have any questions, please do
not hesitate to contact me via telephone at
(701) 845–8126 or email at
dcarlsrud@valleycity.us.
Sincerely,
DAVE CARLSRUD,
Mayor, City of Valley City.
CITY OF GRAND FORKS,
Grand Forks, ND, February 27, 2019.
Re Grand Forks comments on Federal Trans-
portation Authorization.
Senator KEVIN CRAMER,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR CRAMER: Thank you for this
opportunity to provide comment on the re-
authorization of Federal Surface Transpor-
tation bill and, particularly, your personal
interest and involvement through the Senate
Environment and Public Works Committee.
We support the committee’s current strategy
and timeline of reauthorization and we
thank you for your work and support.
Infrastructure needs are a national issue
and we support ongoing efforts that ensure
transportation programs are right-sized to
meet the needs of all cities, particularly
those of the size and needs of North Dakota
cities.
I would also like to take this opportunity
to express how very fortunate we are to have
such solid partners in the NDDOT and we
continue to strive to maintain this produc-
tive partnership that best coordinates re-
sources from federal, state and local part-
ners.
Our comments will follow three key
themes: 1) Continue to deregulate and en-
courage further confluence of programs to
provide for effective and efficient use; 2) Con-
tinue and expand funding and funding flexi-
bility that best leverages federal, state and
local—as well as private Investment. 3) Con-
tinue focus on local transit solutions that
promote a state of good repair and levels of
service necessary to North Dakota commu-
nities.
1) Continue to deregulate and encourage
further confluence of programs to provide for
efficient use.
We applaud the streamlining policy
changes of the current bill, Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation (FAST) Act. These
include environmental review deregulation
efforts that reduce project costs and the con-
solidation of ‘‘siloed’’ programs that enables
more effective flexibility.
Deregulation can go further, for example,
by providing for categorical exclusions for
projects under $5M, which would cover a sig-
nificant number of projects in cities across
North Dakota.
MICHAEL R. BROWN,
Mayor.
CITY OF WEST FARGO,
West Fargo, ND, February 27, 2019.
Re Surface Transportation Reauthorization.
Hon. KEVIN CRAMER,
U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR CRAMER: It is with great
pleasure that I write to you to share the City
of West Fargo’s thoughts related to the reau-
thorization of the next Highway Bill. Of
course funding to continue to support our
residents and the great amount of commerce
coming out of our City is important, but
we’d like to inform you of items within the
current bill that we’d like to improve upon.
Increased Emphasis on Land Use: Planning
funds are under tremendous scrutiny by the
Federal Highway Administration. The City
feels strongly that land use decisions are
closely tied to transportation and the use of
Consolidated Planning Grants (CPG) in
transportation studies should reflect this.
We believe that by decreasing the focus and
weight on levels of service of roadways and
increasing the focus on adjacent land use and
increased connections will result in a more
reliable transportation network.
Increased Funding Opportunities for Infra-
structure Preservation, Replacement and
Maintenance: The City believes that al-
though growth requires extending infrastruc-
ture, it is the ongoing maintenance and up-
keep of existing infrastructure that will bur-
den our citizens. Increasing funding opportu-
nities will help strengthen our City and
allow us to thrive into the future.
Continue Accelerated Project Delivery:
The FAST Act helped streamline the envi-
ronmental review process. The City rec-
ommends that this continue and that any
opportunity to improve upon this may be ex-
plored under the reauthorization.
We thank you for your time and consider-
ation and offer our assistance in any way we
can as your work on this Committee.
Sincerely,
BERNIE L. DARDIS,
President of the Board of City,
Commissioners.
MEMORANDUM
CASS COUNTY GOVERNMENT,
West Fargo, ND, February 25, 2019.
Re FHWA Reauthorization Bill for the FAST
Act.
Senator KEVIN CRAMER,
Washington, DC.
SENATOR CRAMER: As the Cass County En-
gineer, I am writing to request your support
for the reauthorization of the FAST Act.
Across the country our counties face infra-
structure challenges every day. In North Da-
kota, our counties have varying issues from
traffic around key hub cities, oil impacts,
and agricultural impacts. On top of these
issues, we face aging infrastructure with de-
ficient bridges and roads designed to the
safety standards of the 1960s. To improve our
aging roads and bridges, I support our Na-
tional Association of Counties and Associa-
tion of County Engineers in these three core
areas:
Ensure that the federal highway program
dedicates funds for rural secondary infra-
structure, particularly bridges.
Make the federal permitting process sim-
pler and more streamlined.
Ensure the long-term certainty and sol-
vency of the Federal Highway Trust Fund.
I have also been working with our neigh-
boring counties across the Red River for a
critical bridge replacement project. We have
three bridges along the Red River in eastern
North Dakota/northern Minnesota have fall-
en into severe disrepair, and our county will
need help to procure funds for the building
new structures. Our group of counties ap-
plied for a federal grant through the Com-
petitive Highway Bridge Program. I ask for
your support in innovative project delivery
through project bundling and other FHWA
Every Day Counts Initiatives.
If you have questions, please call Jason
Benson.
Sincerely,
JASON BENSON, P.E.,
Cass County Engineer.
AMERICAN COUNCIL OF ENGINEERING
COMPANIES OF NORTH DAKOTA,
Bismarck, ND, February 28, 2019.
Re Highway Bill Input Request.
Hon. Senator KEVIN CRAMER,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR CRAMER: We appreciate the
opportunity to outline our industry prior-
ities for the reauthorization of federal sur-
face transportation programs. We are very
pleased that your seat on the Senate Envi-
ronment & Public Works Committee gives
you a strong position to advocate for our
state’s needs.
As you know, in December 2015, Congress
passed and the President signed into law the
Fixing America’s Surface Transportation
(FAST) Act, providing five years of increased
funding to support highway and transit
projects, while including new reforms to en-
hance program efficiency. The American
Council of Engineering Companies (ACEC) at
both the state and national levels strongly
supported this landmark legislation, and
now urges Congress to remain focused on
adopting long-term, sustainable funding
mechanisms to support the nation’s trans-
portation needs.
ACEC North Dakota represents the con-
sulting engineering firms in the state by as-
sisting members to provide better consulting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.033 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5235
July 31, 2019
engineering services for their clients while
protecting the public welfare and safe-
guarding the ethical standards of consulting
engineers in private practice. We strive to
cooperate with public bodies and other orga-
nizations in matters of common interest. In
addition, ACEC North Dakota acts as a re-
source among our members to provide coop-
erative services and support the advance-
ment of the science and practice of engineer-
ing.
We believe that infrastructure is the back-
bone of the United States economy. A mod-
ern and efficient transportation system is
critical for protecting public health and safe-
ty, promoting commerce, and providing mo-
bility. It enables manufacturers to get their
products to market, farmers to get their
goods to stores, and workers to get to jobs.
Unfortunately, our nation’s infrastructure
remains severely deficient and underfunded.
According to the U.S. DOT, improving the
condition and performance of highways and
bridges requires $142 billion annually from
all levels of government; we currently invest
approximately $105 billion. North Dakota
faces a $2.5 billion shortfall from 2018 to 2023.
BISMARCK MANDAN
CHAMBER | EDC
Hon. Senator KEVIN CRAMER,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR CRAMER: Please accept this
letter as an expression of my personal sup-
port for the reauthorization of the FAST
Act.
In my role as President of the Bismarck
Mandan Chamber EDC, I actively advocate
for probusiness policies on behalf of the orga-
nization’s more than 1,200 members. Re-
cently, those efforts have focused on infra-
structure funding.
At the local level, voters in the City of Bis-
marck recently passed a half-cent sales tax
increase dedicated to arterial roadway con-
struction. And at the state level, legislators
are currently debating a bill dubbed ‘‘Oper-
ation Prairie Dog’’ designed to provide even
more infrastructure funding to townships,
cities and counties around North Dakota.
However, there is concern among all of the
aforementioned political subdivisions re-
garding the uncertainty of federal funding
after the FAST Act’s expiration in 2020.
That’s because while we can attempt to fund
projects to the best of our ability at the
local and state level, the federal match for
some projects can mean the difference be-
tween them happening or not.
The certainty provided by an entirely
funded and planned federal highway bill
means more projects in Bismarck-Mandan
can proceed. As a result, we provide badly
needed infrastructure improvements for our
residents and continued opportunity for our
businesses.
Should you have any questions, please do
not hesitate to contact me via telephone at
(701) 223–5660 or email at
britter@bmcedc.com.
Sincerely,
BRIAN RITTER.
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I was
unavoidably absent on Tuesday, July
30, 2019, for rollcall votes 241, 242, 243,
244, 245, 246, 247, 248, 249, 250, and 251
due to a commitment in Williamsburg,
VA, related to the events surrounding
the 400th commemorative session of
the Virginia General Assembly.
Had I been present I would have
voted nay on confirmation for Sean D.
Jordan, of Texas, to be U.S. District
Judge for the Eastern District of
Texas—rollcall vote 241, PN205; nay on
motion to invoke cloture: Mark T.
Pittman to be U.S. District Judge for
the Northern District of Texas—roll-
call vote 242, PN207; nay on motion to
invoke cloture: Jeffery Vincent Brown,
of Texas, to be U.S. District Judge for
the Southern District of Texas—roll-
call vote 243, PN510; nay on motion to
invoke cloture: Brantley Starr, of
Texas, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of
Texas—rollcall vote 244, PN512; yea on
motion to invoke cloture: Stephanie L.
Haines, of Pennsylvania, to be United
States District Judge for the Western
District of Pennsylvania—rollcall vote
245, PN453; yea on motion to invoke
cloture: Ada E. Brown to be U.S. Dis-
trict Judge for the Northern District of
Texas—rollcall vote 246, PN524; yea on
motion to invoke cloture: Steven D.
Grimberg, of Georgia, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern
District of Georgia—rollcall vote 247,
PN566; nay on motion to invoke cloture
on Jason K. Pulliam, of Texas, to be
United States District Judge for the
Western District of Texas—rollcall
vote 248, PN454; yea on motion to in-
voke cloture on Martha Maria Pacold,
of Illinois, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Illi-
nois—rollcall vote 249, PN780; yea on
motion to invoke cloture on Steven C.
Seeger, of Illinois, to be United States
District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Illinois—rollcall vote 250,
PN782; and nay on motion to invoke
cloture on William Shaw Stickman IV,
of Pennsylvania, to be United States
District Judge for the Western District
of Pennsylvania—rollcall vote 251,
PN727.
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, on July
30, 2019, I was absent for the following
rollcall votes due to a commitment in
Williamsburg, VA, for an event sur-
rounding the 400th commemorative ses-
sion of the Virginia General Assembly.
Had I been present I would have
voted ‘‘nay’’ on confirmation: Sean D.
Jordan, of Texas, to be U.S. District
Judge for the Eastern District of
Texas—rollcall vote 241, PN205; ‘‘nay’’
on motion to invoke cloture: Mark T.
Pittman to be U.S. District Judge for
the Northern District of Texas—roll-
call vote 242, PN207; ‘‘nay’’ on motion
to invoke cloture: Jeffery Vincent
Brown, of Texas, to be U.S. District
Judge for the Southern District of
Texas—rollcall vote 243, PN510; ‘‘nay’’
on motion to invoke cloture: Brantley
Starr, of Texas, to be United States
District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Texas—rollcall vote 244, PN512;
‘‘yea’’ on motion to invoke cloture:
Stephanie L. Haines, of Pennsylvania,
to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Pennsylvania—
rollcall vote 245, PN453; ‘‘yea’’ on mo-
tion to invoke cloture: Ada E. Brown
to be U.S. District Judge for the North-
ern District of Texas—rollcall vote 246,
PN524; ‘‘yea’’ on motion to invoke clo-
ture Steven D. Grimberg, of Georgia, to
be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Georgia—rollcall
vote 247, PN566; ‘‘nay’’ on motion to in-
voke cloture on Jason K. Pulliam, of
Texas, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of
Texas—rollcall vote 248, PN454; ‘‘yea’’
on motion to invoke cloture on Martha
Maria Pacold, of Illinois, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern
District of Illinois—rollcall vote 249,
PN780; ‘‘yea’’ on motion to invoke clo-
ture on Steven C. Seeger, of Illinois, to
be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Illinois—rollcall
vote 250, PN782; and ‘‘nay’’ on motion
to invoke cloture on William Shaw
Stickman IV, of Pennsylvania, to be
United States District Judge for the
Western District of Pennsylvania—roll
call vote 251, PN727.
f
BUDGET SCOREKEEPING REPORT
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I wish to
submit to the Senate the budget
scorekeeping report for July 2019. The
report compares current-law levels of
spending and revenues with the
amounts the Senate agreed to in the
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, BBA18.
This information is necessary for the
Senate Budget Committee to deter-
mine whether budgetary points of
order lie against pending legislation.
The Republican staff of the Budget
Committee and the Congressional
Budget Office, CBO, prepared this re-
port pursuant to section 308(b) of the
Congressional Budget Act, CBA.
This is my sixth scorekeeping report
this year. My last filing can be found in
the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD for June 26,
2019. The information included in this
report is current through July 26, 2019.
Since my last filing, Congress has
cleared four pieces of legislation with
significant budgetary effects. The first,
the Emergency Supplemental Appro-
priations for Humanitarian Assistance
and Security at the Southern Border
Act, 2019, P.L. 116–26, provided nearly
$4.6 billion in emergency funding to ad-
dress needs at the Nation’s southern
border. The second measure with sig-
nificant budgetary effects, P.L. 116–29,
provided for a 2-week extension of the
Medicaid community health services
demonstration program. The third, the
Protecting Affordable Mortgages for
Veterans Act of 2019, P.L. 116–33, re-
vises loan seasoning requirements re-
lated to a refinanced Veterans Affairs
housing loan. The fourth, the Never
Forget the Heroes: James Zadroga, Ray
Pfeifer, and Luis Alvarez Permanent
Authorization of the September 11th
Victim Compensation Fund Act, P.L.
116–34, appropriates such sums as nec-
essary for the Victims Compensation
Fund to pay claims to eligible victims
through fiscal year 2029 and fully com-
pensate claimants who have received
reduced awards in the past because of
declining balances in the fund.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.035 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5236 July 31, 2019
Budget Committee Republican staff
prepared Tables A–C.
Table A gives the amount by which
each Senate authorizing committee ex-
ceeds or is below its allocation for
budget authority and outlays under the
fiscal year 2019 enforceable levels filing
required by BBA18. This information is
used for enforcing committee alloca-
tions pursuant to section 302 of the
CBA. For this reporting period, 9 of the
16 authorizing committees are not in
compliance with their allocations.
Over the current 10-year enforceable
window, authorizing committees have
increased outlays by a combined $13.0
billion. Of the bills clearing Congress
this reporting period, P.L. 116–34 added
to the Judiciary Committee’s existing
violations, including an increase in
spending of $9.4 billion over the 10-year
window, P.L. 116–33 reduced the Bank-
ing Committee’s allocation violation
by $3 million in each enforceable win-
dow, and P.L. 116–29 added $5 million to
the Finance Committee’s existing fis-
cal year 2019 violations.
Table B provides the amount by
which the Senate Committee on Appro-
priations is below or exceeds the statu-
tory spending limits. This information
is used to determine points of order re-
lated to the spending caps found in sec-
tions 312 and 314 of the CBA. Appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2019, displayed in
this table, show that the Appropria-
tions Committee is compliant with
spending limits for the current fiscal
year. Those limits for regular discre-
tionary spending are $647 billion for ac-
counts in the defense category and $597
billion for accounts in the nondefense
category of spending.
The fiscal year 2018 budget resolution
contained points of order limiting the
use of changes in mandatory programs
in appropriations bills, CHIMPs. Table
C, which tracks the CHIMP limit of $15
billion for fiscal year 2019, shows the
Appropriations Committee has enacted
$15 billion worth of full-year CHIMPs
for this fiscal year.
In addition to the tables provided by
Budget Committee Republican staff, I
am submitting CBO tables, which I will
use to enforce budget totals approved
by Congress.
For fiscal year 2019, CBO estimates
that current-law levels are $2.9 billion
above and $3.3 billion below enforceable
levels for budget authority and out-
lays, respectively. These levels were
adjusted to accommodate the budget
authority and outlay effects of P.L.
116–26, as that funding was designated
as an emergency and qualified for an
equivalent and concurrent increase in
enforceable levels under existing stat-
ute. Revenues are $426 million below
the level assumed in the budget resolu-
tion. Further, Social Security revenues
are at the levels assumed for fiscal
year 2019, while Social Security out-
lays are $4 million above assumed lev-
els for the budget year.
CBO’s report also provides informa-
tion needed to enforce the Senate pay-
as-you-go, PAYGO, rule. The PAYGO
scorecard shows deficit increases in fis-
cal year 2019 of $1,959 million, $427 mil-
lion revenue loss, $1,532 million outlay
increase; over the fiscal year 2018–2023
period of $3,409 million, $907 million
revenue loss, $2,502 million outlay in-
crease; and over the fiscal year 2018–
2028 period of $797 million, $798 million
revenue loss, $1 million outlay de-
crease. During this reporting period,
P.L. 116–33 reduced the deficit by $3
million over the fiscal year 2019, fiscal
year 2018–2023, and fiscal year 2018–2028
periods, and P.L. 116–29 increased the
deficit by $5 million in fiscal year 2019.
P.L. 116–34’s budgetary effects are not
included in this table or the PAYGO
scorecard pursuant to the direction in-
cluded in the statutory text.
This submission also includes a table
tracking the Senate’s budget enforce-
ment activity on the floor since the en-
forcement filing on May 7, 2018. Since
my last report, no new budgetary
points of order were raised.
All years in the accompanying tables
are fiscal years.
I ask unanimous consent that the ac-
companying tables be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
TABLE A.—SENATE AUTHORIZING COMMITTEES—ENACTED
DIRECT SPENDING ABOVE (+) OR BELOW (¥) BUDGET
RESOLUTIONS
[In millions of dollars]
2019
2019–
2023
2019–
2028
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry:
Budget Authority ............................... 2,414 4,249 3,123
Outlays .............................................. 1,401 1,797 70
Armed Services:
Budget Authority ............................... 0 0 0
Outlays .............................................. 0 0 0
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Budget Authority ............................... 18 282 379
Outlays .............................................. 17 282 379
Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Budget Authority ............................... 41 77 91
Outlays .............................................. 11 74 90
Energy and Natural Resources:
Budget Authority ............................... 0 ¥10 ¥24
Outlays .............................................. 0 ¥10 ¥24
Environment and Public Works:
Budget Authority ............................... 2 4 ¥333
Outlays .............................................. 2 4 ¥333
Finance:
Budget Authority ............................... 383 1,078 ¥1,090
Outlays .............................................. 164 1,070 ¥1,093
Foreign Relations:
Budget Authority ............................... 0 ¥5 ¥20
Outlays .............................................. 0 ¥5 ¥20
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs:
Budget Authority ............................... 0 2 4
Outlays .............................................. 43 48 49
Judiciary:
Budget Authority ............................... 13 6,361 9,944
Outlays .............................................. 13 6,357 9,939
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions:
Budget Authority ............................... 0 ¥36 ¥84
Outlays .............................................. 0 ¥36 ¥84
Rules and Administration:
Budget Authority ............................... 0 0 1
Outlays .............................................. 0 0 1
Intelligence:
Budget Authority ............................... 0 0 0
Outlays .............................................. 0 0 0
Veterans’ Affairs:
Budget Authority ............................... 4 79 ¥335
Outlays .............................................. 4,402 4,476 4,062
Indian Affairs:
Budget Authority ............................... 0 0 0
Outlays .............................................. 0 0 0
Small Business:
Budget Authority ............................... 0 0 0
Outlays .............................................. 0 0 0
Total:
Budget Authority ...................... 2,875 12,081 11,656
Outlays ..................................... 6,053 14,057 13,036
TABLE B.—SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE—
ENACTED REGULAR DISCRETIONARY APPROPRIATIONS 1
[Budget authority, in millions of dollars]
2019
Security 2 Nonsecurity 2
Statutory Discretionary Limits .............. 647,000 597,000
Amount Provided by Senate Appropriations Subcommittee
Agriculture, Rural Development, and
Related Agencies .............................. 0 23,042
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies .................................. 5,499 58,619
Defense ................................................. 606,340 129
Energy and Water Development ............ 22,440 22,200
Financial Services and General Govern-
ment ................................................. 31 23,392
Homeland Security ................................ 2,058 47,353
Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies ........................................... 0 35,552
Labor, Health and Human Services,
Education, and Related Agencies .... 0 178,076
Legislative Branch ................................ 0 4,836
Military Construction, Veterans Affairs,
and Related Agencies ...................... 10,332 86,804
State, Foreign Operations, and Related
Programs .......................................... 0 46,218
Transportation and Housing and Urban
Development, and Related Agencies 300 70,779
Current Level Total ............. 647,000 597,000
Total Enacted Above (+) or Below
(¥) Statutory Limits .............. 0 0
1 This table excludes spending pursuant to adjustments to the discre-
tionary spending limits. These adjustments are allowed for certain purposes
in section 251(b)(2) of BBEDCA.
2 Security spending is defined as spending in the National Defense budg-
et function (050) and nonsecurity spending is defined as all other spending.
TABLE C.—SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE—EN-
ACTED CHANGES IN MANDATORY SPENDING PROGRAMS
(CHIMPS)
[Budget authority, millions of dollars]
2019
CHIMPS Limit for Fiscal Year 2019 ................................. 15,000
Senate Appropriations Subcommittees
Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related Agencies 0
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies ....... 7,285
Defense ............................................................................ 0
Energy and Water Development ....................................... 0
Financial Services and General Government ................... 0
Homeland Security ........................................................... 0
Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies .................. 0
Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Re-
lated Agencies ............................................................. 7,715
Legislative Branch ........................................................... 0
Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related
Agencies ...................................................................... 0
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs ......... 0
Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and
Related Agencies ......................................................... 0
Current Level Total ........................................ 15,000
Total CHIMPS Above (+) or Below (¥) Budget
Resolution ........................................................... 0
U.S. CONGRESS,
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE,
Washington, DC, July 31, 2019.
Hon. MIKE ENZI,
Chairman, Committee on the Budget,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: The enclosed report
shows the effects of Congressional action on
the fiscal year 2019 budget and is current
through July 26, 2019. This report is sub-
mitted under section 308(b) and in aid of sec-
tion 311 of the Congressional Budget Act, as
amended.
The estimates of budget authority, out-
lays, and revenues are consistent with the
allocations, aggregates, and other budgetary
levels printed in the Congressional Record on
May 7, 2018, pursuant to section 30103 of the
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law
115–123).
Since our last letter dated June 26, 2019,
the Congress has cleared and the President
has signed the following legislation that has
significant effects on budget authority and
outlays in fiscal year 2019:
A bill to provide for a 2-week extension of
the Medicaid community mental health serv-
ices demonstration program, and for other
purposes (Public Law 116–29);
Protecting Affordable Mortgages for Vet-
erans Act of 2019 (Public Law 116–33); and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.025 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5237
July 31, 2019
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations
for Humanitarian Assistance and Security at
the Southern Border Act, 2019 (Public Law
116–26).
Sincerely,
PHILLIP L. SWAGEL,
Director.
Enclosure.
TABLE 1.—SENATE CURRENT LEVEL REPORT FOR SPEND-
ING AND REVENUES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019, AS OF
JULY 26, 2019
[In billions of dollars]
Budget
Resolution
Current
Level
Current
Level
Over/Under
(¥)
Resolution
On-Budget:
Budget Authority ............. 3,663.0 3,665.9 2.9
Outlays ............................ 3,556.4 3,553.2 ¥3.3
Revenues ......................... 2,590.5 2,590.1 ¥0.4
Off-Budget:
Social Security Outlays a 908.8 908.8 0.0
TABLE 1.—SENATE CURRENT LEVEL REPORT FOR SPEND-
ING AND REVENUES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019, AS OF
JULY 26, 2019—Continued
[In billions of dollars]
Budget
Resolution
Current
Level
Current
Level
Over/Under
(¥)
Resolution
Social Security Revenues 899.2 899.2 0.0
Source: Congressional Budget Office.
a Excludes administrative expenses paid from the Federal Old-Age and
Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust
Fund of the Social Security Administration, which are off-budget, but are
appropriated annually.
TABLE 2.—SUPPORTING DETAIL FOR THE SENATE CURRENT LEVEL REPORT FOR ON-BUDGET SPENDING AND REVENUES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019, AS OF JULY 26, 2019
[In millions of dollars]
Budget
Authority
Outlays Revenues
Previously Enacted a,b,c
Revenues ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. 2,590,496
Permanents and other spending legislation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2,271,360 2,169,258 n.a.
Authorizing and Appropriation legislation .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1,886,507 1,949,120 ¥302
Offsetting receipts ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ¥890,012 ¥890,015 n.a.
Total, Previously Enacted ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3,267,855 3,228,363 2,590,194
Enacted Legislation
Authorizing Legislation
Medicaid Extenders Act of 2019 (P.L. 116–3) .................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 120 8 0
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019 (P.L. 116–6, Division H) d .................................................................................................................................................................................... 2 2 1
Pesticide Registration Improvement Extension Act of 2018 (P.L. 116–8) ......................................................................................................................................................................... 0 ¥5 0
Medicaid Services Investment and Accountability Act of 2019 (P.L. 116–16) .................................................................................................................................................................. 52 32 0
A bill to provide for a 2-week extension of the Medicaid community mental health services demonstration program, and for other purposes (P.L. 116–29) .................................. 5 5 0
Protecting Affordable Mortgages for Veterans Act of 2019 (P.L. 116–33) ........................................................................................................................................................................ ¥3 ¥3 0
Subtotal, Authorizing Legislation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 176 39 1
Appropriation Legislation b
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019 (Divisions A–G, P.L. 116–6) b,c ............................................................................................................................................................................ 480,297 311,586 ¥125
Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Act, 2019 (P.L. 116–20) ...................................................................................................................................................... 19,121 5,364 0
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Humanitarian Assistance and Security at the Southern Border Act, 2019 (P.L. 116–26) ........................................................................ 4,586 1,048 0
Subtotal, Appropriation Legislation ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 504,004 317,998 ¥125
Total, Enacted Legislation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 504,180 318,037 ¥124
Entitlements and Mandatories ¥106,128 6,756 0
Total Current Level c ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3,665,907 3,553,156 2,590,070
Total Senate Resolution e .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3,663,031 3,556,421 2,590,496
Current Level Over Senate Resolution .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2,876 n.a. n.a.
Current Level Under Senate Resolution ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ n.a. 3,265 426
Memorandum
Revenues, 2019–2028
Senate Current Level .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. 33,272,354
Senate Resolution c ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. 33,273,213
Current Level Over Senate Resolution .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current Level Under Senate Resolution ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ n.a. n.a. 859
Source: Congressional Budget Office.
n.a. = not applicable; P.L. = public law.
a Includes the budgetary effects of legislation enacted by Congress during the 115th Congress.
b Sections 1001–1004 of the 21st Century Cures Act (P.L. 114–255) require that certain funding provided for 2017 through 2026 to the Department of Health and Human Services—in particular the Food and Drug Administration and
the National Institutes of Health—be excluded from estimates for the purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Deficit Control Act) or the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974
(Congressional Budget Act). Therefore, the amounts shown in this report do not include $781 million in budget authority and $770 million in estimated outlays.
c For purposes of enforcing section 311 of the Congressional Budget Act in the Senate, the resolution, as approved by the Senate, does not include budget authority, outlays, or revenues for off-budget amounts. As a result, amounts in
this current level report do not include those items.
d The Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019 (P.L. 116–5), as amended, extended several immigration programs through February 15, 2019, that would otherwise have expired at the end of fiscal year 2018. The estimated budgetary effects
of those previously enacted extensions are charged to the Committee on Appropriations, and are included in the budgetary effects of P.L. 116–6 shown in the ‘‘Appropriation Legislation’’ portion of this report. In addition, division H of P.L.
116–6 further extended those same programs through the end of fiscal year 2019. Consistent with the language in title III of division H of P.L. 116–6, and at the direction of the Senate Committee on the Budget, the budgetary effects of
extending those immigration programs for the remainder of the fiscal year are charged to the relevant authorizing committees, and are shown in the ‘‘Authorizing Legislation’’ portion of this report.
e Section 30103 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 requires the Chair of the Senate Committee on the Budget to publish the aggregate spending and revenue levels for fiscal year 2019; those aggregate levels were first published in
the Congressional Record on May 7, 2018. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 also allows the Chair of the Senate Committee on the Budget to revise the budgetary aggregates:
Budget
Authority
Outlays Revenues
Original Aggregates Printed on May 7, 2018: ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 3,547,094 3,508,052 2,590,496
Revisions:
Pursuant to sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ...................................................................................................................................................... 921 0 0
Pursuant to sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ...................................................................................................................................................... 69,464 38,556 0
Pursuant to sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ...................................................................................................................................................... 0 ¥214 0
Pursuant to sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ...................................................................................................................................................... 1,680 25 0
Pursuant to sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ...................................................................................................................................................... 20,165 3,590 0
Pursuant to sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ...................................................................................................................................................... 19,121 5,364 0
Pursuant to sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ...................................................................................................................................................... 4,586 1,048 0
Revised Senate Resolution .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3,663,031 3,556,421 2,590,496
TABLE 3—SUMMARY OF THE SENATE PAY-AS-YOU-GO SCORECARD AS OF JULY 26, 2019
[In millions of dollars]
2018 2019 2018–2023 2018–2028
Beginning Balance a ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Enacted Legislation b,c
A joint resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection
relating to ‘‘Incident Auto Lending and Compliance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act’’ (S.J. Res. 57, P.L. 115–172) .................................................................................. * * * *
Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protections Act (S. 2155, P.L. 115–174) d ................................................................................................................................. * 22 329 490
Trickett Wendler, Frank Mongiello, Jordan McLinn, and Matthew Bellina Right to Try Act of 2017 (S. 204, P.L. 115–176) ...................................................................................... * * * *
An Act to amend title 38, United States Code, to authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish assistance for adaptations of residences of veterans in rehabilitation
programs under chapter 31 of such title, and for other purposes (H.R. 3562, P.L. 115–177) ............................................................................................................................... * * * *
VA MISSION Act of 2018 (S. 2372, P.L. 115–182) e ....................................................................................................................................................................................................... — — — —
Whistleblower Protection Coordination Act (S. 1869, P.L. 115–192) ............................................................................................................................................................................. * * * *
All Circuit Review Act (H.R. 2229, P.L. 115–195) .......................................................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
American Innovation $1 Coin Act (H.R. 770, P.L. 115–197) .......................................................................................................................................................................................... 0 3 3 0
Small Business 7(a) Lending Oversight Reform Act of 2018 (H.R. 4743, P.L. 115–189) ............................................................................................................................................ * * * *
Northern Mariana Islands U.S. Workforce Act of 2018 (H.R. 5956, P.L. 115–218) ....................................................................................................................................................... 0 0 0 ¥3
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.063 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5238 July 31, 2019
TABLE 3—SUMMARY OF THE SENATE PAY-AS-YOU-GO SCORECARD AS OF JULY 26, 2019—Continued
[In millions of dollars]
2018 2019 2018–2023 2018–2028
KIWI Act (S. 2245, P.L. 115–226) ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
To make technical amendments to certain marine fish conservation statutes, and for other purposes (H.R. 4528, P.L. 115–228) ......................................................................... * * * *
John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (H.R. 5515, P.L. 115–232) ........................................................................................................................ * * * *
Miscellaneous Tariff Bill Act of 2018 (H.R. 4318, P.L. 115–239) ................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 304 690 ¥118
Tribal Social Security Fairness Act of 2018 (H.R. 6124, P.L. 115–243) ........................................................................................................................................................................ 0 * ¥1 ¥3
Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019 (H.R. 6157, Division B, P.L. 115–245, Division B) ............ 0 0 18 18
Nuclear Energy Innovation Capabilities Act of 2017 (S. 97, P.L. 115–248) ................................................................................................................................................................. * * * *
Department of Veterans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act of 2018 (S. 3479, P.L. 115–251) ......................................................................................................................................... * 2 * ¥3
Elkhorn Ranch and White River National Forest Conveyance Act of 2017 (H.R. 698, P.L. 115–252) .......................................................................................................................... * * * *
FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 302, P.L. 115–254) f ........................................................................................................................................................................................ * 44 42 26
Patient Right To Know Drug Act of 2018 (S. 2554, P.L. 115–263) ............................................................................................................................................................................... * * ¥11 ¥52
Orrin G. Hatch-Bob Goodlatte Music Modernization Act (H.R. 1551, P.L. 115–264) ..................................................................................................................................................... 0 0 13 ¥24
Congressional Award Program Reauthorization Act of 2018 (S. 3509, P.L. 115–268) ................................................................................................................................................. 0 * 2 4
America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (S. 3021, P.L. 115–270) ........................................................................................................................................................................... 0 2 16 ¥230
SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6, P.L. 115–271) g ......................................................................................................................................................................... 0 — — —
Hizballah International Financing Prevention Amendments Act of 2017 (S. 1595, P.L. 115–272) .............................................................................................................................. 0 * * *
To authorize the National Emergency Medical Services Memorial Foundation to establish a commemorative work in the District of Columbia and its environs, and for other
purposes (H.R. 1037, P.L. 115–275) .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 0 * * *
Gulf Islands National Seashore Land Exchange Act (H.R. 2615, P.L. 115–279) ........................................................................................................................................................... 0 * * *
Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 (S. 140, P.L. 115–282) .......................................................................................................................................................... 0 10 34 0
Making further continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2019, and for other purposes (H.J. Res. 143, P.L. 115–298) ............................................................................................ 0 * * *
Amy, Vicky, and Andy Child Pornography Victim Assistance Act of 2018 (S. 2152, P.L. 115–299) ............................................................................................................................. 0 * * *
A bill to establish a procedure for the conveyance of certain Federal property around the Dickinson Reservoir in the State of North Dakota (S. 440, P.L. 115–306) ................. 0 0 0 ¥4
A bill to establish a procedure for the conveyance of certain Federal property around the Jamestown Reservoir in the State of North Dakota, and for other purposes (S. 2074,
P.L. 115–308) .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 ¥7
Anwar Sadat Centennial Celebration Act (H.R. 754, P.L. 115–310) .............................................................................................................................................................................. 0 * * *
Larry Doby Congressional Gold Medal Act (H.R. 1861, P.L. 115–322) .......................................................................................................................................................................... 0 * * *
Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act of 2018 (H.R. 1872, P.L. 115–330) .............................................................................................................................................................................. 0 * * *
Protecting Access to the Courts for Taxpayers Act (H.R. 3996, P.L. 115–332) ............................................................................................................................................................. 0 * * *
Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (H.R. 2, P.L. 115–334) ....................................................................................................................................................................................... 0 1,399 1,785 0
Nicaragua Human Rights and Anticorruption Act of 2018 (H.R. 1918, P.L. 115–335) ................................................................................................................................................ 0 * * *
21st Century Integrated Digital Experience Act (H.R. 5759, P.L. 115–336) .................................................................................................................................................................. 0 * * *
Chinese-American World War II Veteran Congressional Gold Medal Act (S. 1050, P.L. 115–337) ............................................................................................................................... 0 * * *
USS Indianapolis Congressional Gold Medal Act (S. 2101, P.L. 115–338) ................................................................................................................................................................... 0 * * *
Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame Commemorative Coin Act (H.R. 1235, P.L. 115–343) ............................................................................................................................ 0 0 0 0
Sanctioning the Use of Civilians as Defenseless Shields Act (H.R. 3342, P.L. 115–348) ............................................................................................................................................ 0 * * *
Correcting Miscalculations in Veterans’ Pensions Act (H.R. 4431, P.L. 115–352) ........................................................................................................................................................ 0 * * *
Strengthening Coastal Communities Act of 2018 (H.R. 5787, P.L. 115–358) .............................................................................................................................................................. 0 * * *
Walnut Grove Land Exchange Act (H.R. 5923, P.L. 115–361) ....................................................................................................................................................................................... 0 * * *
To amend the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to extend through 2023 the authority of the Federal Election Commission to impose civil money penalties on the basis
of a schedule of penalties established and published by the Commission (H.R. 7120, P.L. 115–386) ................................................................................................................. 0 * * *
First Step Act of 2018 (S. 756, P.L. 115–391) .............................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 11 120 317
Abolish Human Trafficking Act of 2017 (S. 1311, P.L. 115–392) ................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 * * *
CENOTE Act of 2018 (S. 2511, P.L. 115–394) ............................................................................................................................................................................................................... 0 * * *
NASA Enhanced Use Leasing Extension Act of 2018 (S. 7, P.L. 115–403) ................................................................................................................................................................... 0 0 5 5
Veterans Benefits and Transition Act of 2018 (S. 2248, P.L. 115–407) ....................................................................................................................................................................... 0 * * *
Stephen Michael Gleason Congressional Gold Medal Act (S. 2652, P.L. 115–415) ...................................................................................................................................................... 0 * * *
Veterans Small Business Enhancement Act of 2018 (S. 2679, P.L. 115–416) ............................................................................................................................................................. 0 * * *
Forever GI Bill Housing Payment Fulfillment Act of 2018 (S. 3777, P.L. 115–422) ..................................................................................................................................................... 0 * * *
National Integrated Drought Information System Reauthorization Act of 2018 (S. 2200, P.L. 115–423) .................................................................................................................... 0 * * *
To authorize early repayment of obligations to the Bureau of Reclamation within the Northport Irrigation District in the State of Nebraska (H.R. 4689, P.L. 115–429) ............. 0 * * *
75th Anniversary of World War II Commemoration Act (S. 3661, P.L. 115–433) .......................................................................................................................................................... 0 * * *
Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards Program Extension Act (H.R. 251, P.L. 116–2) ........................................................................................................................................ 0 * * *
Medicaid Extenders Act of 2019 (H.R. 259, P.L. 116–3) ............................................................................................................................................................................................... 0 8 63 *
Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019 (H.J. Res. 28, P.L. 116–5) ..................................................................................................................................................... 0 * * *
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019 (H.J. Res. 31, P.L. 116–6) h ............................................................................................................................................................................. 0 125 229 9
Pesticide Registration Improvement Extension Act of 2018 (S. 483, P.L. 116–8) ........................................................................................................................................................ 0 ¥5 ¥23 0
John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act (S. 47, P.L. 116–9) ............................................................................................................................................ 0 0 ¥10 ¥10
Medicaid Services Investment and Accountability Act of 2019 (H.R. 1839, P.L. 116–16) ........................................................................................................................................... 0 32 69 27
Target Practice and Marksmanship Training Support Act (H.R. 1222, P.L. 116–17) .................................................................................................................................................... 0 * * *
An act to make technical corrections to the computation of average pay under Public Law 110–279 (S. 1436, P.L. 116–21) ............................................................................... 0 * * 1
Blue Water Navy Vietnam Act of 2019 (H.R. 299, P.L. 116–23) ................................................................................................................................................................................... 0 0 76 394
Northern Mariana Islands Long-Term Legal Residents Relief Act (H.R. 559, P.L. 116–24) .......................................................................................................................................... 0 * * *
Taxpayer First Act (H.R. 3151, P.L. 116–25) .................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 * ¥37 ¥37
An act to provide for a 2-week extension of the Medicaid community mental health services demonstration program, and for other purposes (S. 2047, P.L. 116–29) .............. 0 5 0 0
Effective Prosecution of Possession of Biological Toxins and Agents Act of 2019 (S. 744, P.L. 116–31) .................................................................................................................. 0 * * *
Protecting Affordable Mortgages for Veterans Act of 2019 (S. 1749, P.L. 116–33) ..................................................................................................................................................... 0 ¥3 ¥3 ¥3
Never Forget the Heroes: James Zadroga, Ray Pfeifer, and Luis Alvarez Permanent Authorization of the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund Act (H.R. 1327, P.L. 116–
34) i ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 — — —
Impact on Deficit ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... * 1,959 3,409 797
Total Change in Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... * 1,532 2,502 ¥1
Total Change in Revenues ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ * ¥427 ¥907 ¥798
Source: Congressional Budget Office
P.L. = public law; * = between ¥$500,000 and $500,000; — = excluded from PAYGO scorecard.
a On May 7, 2018, the Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Budget reset the Senate’s Pay-As-You-Go Scorecard to zero for all fiscal years.
b The amounts shown represent the estimated effect of the public laws on the deficit.
c Excludes off-budget amounts.
d Pursuant to section 232(b) of H.C. Res. 290 (106th Congress), the Concurrent Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2001, the budgetary effects related to the Federal Reserve’s surplus funds are excluded. As a result, the amounts shown
do not include estimated increases in revenues of $655 million in fiscal year 2019, $570 million over the 2019–2023 period, and $454 million over the 2019–2028 period.
e The budgetary effects of this act are excluded from the Senate’s PAYGO scorecard, pursuant to section 512 of the act.
f Division I of P.L. 115–254 contains the Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Act, 2018, which provided $1,680 million in supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 2019, and designated that amount as an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251 of the Deficit Control Act. At the direction of the Committees on the Budget, and consistent with the language in section 1701, the funding is shown as discretionary spending.
g The budgetary effects of this act are excluded from the Senate’s PAYGO scorecard, pursuant to section 8231 of the act.
h The budgetary effects of title I of division H of this act are excluded from the Senate’s PAYGO scorecard, pursuant to title III of division H of the act.
i The budgetary effects of this act are excluded from the Senate’s PAYGO scorecard, pursuant to sec. 4 of the act.
ENFORCEMENT REPORT OF POINTS OF ORDER RAISED SINCE THE FY 2019 ENFORCEMENT FILING
Vote Date Measure Violation Motion to Waive Result
127 ................. June 18, 2018 .................................. H.R. 5515—John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2019.
4106(a)—Senate-Pay-As-You-Go
Violation1.
Sen. McConnell (R–KY) 2 .................. 81–14, waived.
192 ................. August 23, 2018 .............................. S. Amdt #3695 to H.R. 6157, the Defense, Labor, HHS, and Education
Appropriations Act 3.
314(a) CHIMP with Net-Costs ......... Sen. Leahy (D–VT) ........................... 68–24, waived.
1 Senator Sanders raised a section 4106(a) of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress) point of order against the bill because the bill would increase the on-budget deficit.
2 By unanimous consent the Senate proceeded to a rollcall vote to waive the point of order.
3 This surgical point of order would have struck lines 7–8 of page 270 in Division B (Title III) of the substitute amendment, which was related to the Pell Grant program. This provision was a Change in Mandatory Program (CHIMP) esti-
mated to increase spending by $390 million over 10 years.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.065 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5239
July 31, 2019
COMMITTEE ON RULES AND AD-
MINISTRATION LEGISLATIVE AC-
TIVITIES REPORT
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent for the Legislative
Activities Report of the Committee of
Rules and Administration during the
115th Congress be printed into the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
REVIEW OF LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY
DURING THE 115TH CONGRESS
JURISDICTION OF THE COMMITTEE ON RULES
AND ADMINISTRATION
The jurisdiction of the Committee on
Rules and Administration is set forth in
paragraph l(n)(l) of rule XXV of the Standing
Rules of the Senate. The following are ex-
cerpts from that paragraph.
RULE XXV
STANDING COMMITTEES
1. The following standing committees shall
be appointed at the commencement of each
Congress, and shall continue and have the
power to act until their successors are ap-
pointed, with leave to report by bill or other-
wise on matters within their respective ju-
risdictions:
* * * * *
(n)(l) Committee on Rules and Administra-
tion, to which committee shall be referred
all proposed legislation, messages, petitions,
memorials, and other matters relating to the
following subjects:
1. Administration of the Senate Office
Buildings and the Senate wing of the Cap-
itol, including the assignment of office
space.
2. Congressional organization relative to
rules and procedures, and Senate rules and
regulations, including floor and gallery
rules.
3. Corrupt practices.
4. Credentials and qualifications of Mem-
bers of the Senate, contested elections, and
acceptance of incompatible offices.
5. Federal elections generally, including
the election of the President, Vice President,
and Members of the Congress.
6. Government Publishing Office, and the
printing and correction of the Congressional
Record, as well as those matters provided for
under rule XI.
7. Meeting of the Congress and attendance
of Members.
8. Payment of money out of the contingent
fund of the Senate or creating a charge upon
the same (except that any resolution relat-
ing to substantive matter within the juris-
diction of any other standing committee of
the Senate shall be first referred to such
committee).
9. Presidential succession.
10. Purchase of books and manuscripts and
erection of monuments to the memory of in-
dividuals.
11. Senate Library and statuary, art, and
pictures in the Capitol and Senate Office
Buildings.
12. Services to the Senate, including the
Senate restaurant.
13. United States Capitol and congressional
office buildings, the Library of Congress, the
Smithsonian Institution (and the incorpora-
tion of similar institutions), and the Botanic
Gardens.
(2) Such committee shall also—
(A) make a continuing study of the organi-
zation and operation of the Congress of the
United States and shall recommend improve-
ments in such organization and operation
with a view toward strengthening the Con-
gress, simplifying its operations, improving
its relationships with other branches of the
United States Government, and enabling it
better to meet its responsibilities under the
Constitution of the United States; and
(B) identify any court proceeding or action
which, in the opinion of the Committee, is of
vital interest to the Congress as a constitu-
tionally established institution of the Fed-
eral Government and call such proceeding or
action to the attention of the Senate.
* * * * *
RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR THE COMMITTEE ON
RULES AND ADMINISTRATION
TITLE I—MEETINGS OF THE COMMITTEE
1. The regular meeting dates of the Com-
mittee shall be the second and fourth
Wednesdays of each month, at 10:00 a.m. in
room SR–301, Russell Senate Office Building.
Additional meetings of the Committee may
be called by the Chairman as he may deem
necessary or pursuant to the provision of
paragraph 3 of rule XXVI of the Standing
Rules of the Senate.
2. Meetings of the committee, including
meetings to conduct hearings, shall be open
to the public, except that a meeting or series
of meetings by the committee on the same
subject for a period of no more than 14 cal-
endar days may be closed to the public on a
motion made and seconded to go into closed
session to discuss only whether the matters
enumerated in subparagraphs (a) through (f)
would require the meeting to be closed fol-
lowed immediately by a recorded vote in
open session by a majority of the Members of
the committee when it is determined that
the matters to be discussed or the testimony
to be taken at such meeting or meetings:
(A) will disclose matters necessary to be
kept secret in the interests of national de-
fense or the confidential conduct of the for-
eign relations of the United States;
(B) will relate solely to matters of the
committee staff personnel or internal staff
management or procedure;
(C) will tend to charge an individual with
crime or misconduct, to disgrace or injure
the professional standing of an individual, or
otherwise to expose an individual to public
contempt or obloquy, or will represent a
clearly unwarranted invasion of the privacy
of an individual;
(D) will disclose the identity of any in-
former or law enforcement agent or will dis-
close any information relating to the inves-
tigation or prosecution of a criminal offense
that is required to be kept secret in the in-
terests of effective law enforcement;
(E) will disclose information relating to
the trade secrets or financial or commercial
information pertaining specifically to a
given person if:
(1) an Act of Congress requires the infor-
mation to be kept confidential by Govern-
ment officers and employees; or
(2) the information has been obtained by
the Government on a confidential basis,
other than through an application by such
person for a specific Government financial or
other benefit, and is required to be kept se-
cret in order to prevent undue injury to the
competitive position of such person; or
(F) may divulge matters required to be
kept confidential under the provisions of law
or Government regulations. (Paragraph 5(b)
of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules.)
3. Written notices of committee meetings
will normally be sent by the committee’s
staff director to all Members of the com-
mittee at least a week in advance. In addi-
tion, the committee staff will telephone or e-
mail reminders of committee meetings to all
Members of the committee or to the appro-
priate assistants in their offices.
4. A copy of the committee’s intended
agenda enumerating separate items of legis-
lative business and committee business will
normally be sent to all Members of the com-
mittee and released to the public at least 1
day in advance of all meetings. This does not
preclude any Member of the committee from
discussing appropriate non-agenda topics.
5. After the Chairman and the Ranking Mi-
nority Member, speaking order shall be
based on order of arrival, alternating be-
tween Majority and Minority Members, un-
less otherwise directed by the Chairman.
6. Any witness who is to appear before the
committee in any hearing shall file with the
clerk of the committee at least 3 business
days before the date of his or her appearance,
a written statement of his or her proposed
testimony and an executive summary there-
of, in such form as the chairman may direct,
unless the Chairman and the Ranking Minor-
ity Member waive such requirement for good
cause.
7. In general, testimony will be restricted
to 5 minutes for each witness. The time may
be extended by the Chairman, upon the
Chair’s own direction or at the request of a
Member. Each round of questions by Mem-
bers will also be limited to 5 minutes.
TITLE II—QUORUMS
1. Pursuant to paragraph 7(a)(l) of rule
XXVI of the Standing Rules, a majority of
the Members of the committee shall con-
stitute a quorum for the reporting of legisla-
tive measures.
2. Pursuant to paragraph 7(a)(l) of rule
XXVI of the Standing Rules, one-third of the
Members of the committee shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business, in-
cluding action on amendments to measures
prior to voting to report the measure to the
Senate.
3. Pursuant to paragraph 7(a)(2) of rule
XXVI of the Standing Rules, 2 Members of
the committee shall constitute a quorum for
the purpose of taking testimony under oath
and 1 Member of the committee shall con-
stitute a quorum for the purpose of taking
testimony not under oath; provided, how-
ever, that in either instance, once a quorum
is established, any one Member can continue
to take such testimony.
4. Under no circumstances may proxies be
considered for the establishment of a
quorum.
TITLE III—VOTING
1. Voting in the committee on any issue
will normally be by voice vote.
2. If a third of the Members present so de-
mand a roll call vote instead of a voice vote,
a record vote will be taken on any question
by roll call.
3. The results of roll call votes taken in
any meeting upon any measure, or any
amendment thereto, shall be stated in the
committee report on that measure unless
previously announced by the committee, and
such report or announcement shall include a
tabulation of the votes cast in favor of and
the votes cast in opposition to each such
measure and amendment by each Member of
the committee. (Paragraph 7(b) and (c) of
rule XXVI of the Standing Rules.)
4. Proxy voting shall be allowed on all
measures and matters before the committee.
However, the vote of the committee to re-
port a measure or matter shall require the
concurrence of a majority of the Members of
the committee who are physically present at
the time of the vote. Proxies will be allowed
in such cases solely for the purpose of re-
cording a Member’s position on the question
and then only in those instances when the
absentee committee Member has been in-
formed of the question and has affirmatively
requested that he be recorded. (Paragraph
7(a)(3) of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules.)
TITLE IV—AMENDMENTS
1. Provided at least five business days’ no-
tice of the agenda is given, and the text of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.024 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5240 July 31, 2019
the proposed bill or resolution has been made
available at least five business calendar days
in advance, it shall not be in order for the
Committee to consider any amendment in
the first degree proposed to any measure
under consideration by the Committee un-
less such amendment has been delivered to
the office of the Committee and circulated
via e-mail to each of the offices by at least
5:00 p.m. the day prior to the scheduled start
of the meeting.
2. In the event the Chairman introduces a
substitute amendment or a Chairman’s
mark, the requirements set forth in Para-
graph 1 of this Title shall be considered
waived unless such substitute amendment or
Chairman’s mark has been made available at
least five business days in advance of the
scheduled meeting.
3. It shall be in order, without prior notice,
for a Member to offer a motion to strike a
single section of any bill, resolution, or
amendment under consideration.
4. This section of the rule may be waived
by agreement of the Chairman and the Rank-
ing Minority Member.
TITLE V—DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN
1. The Chairman is authorized to sign him-
self or by delegation all necessary vouchers
and routine papers for which the commit-
tee’s approval is required and to decide in
the committee’s behalf all routine business.
2. The Chairman is authorized to engage
commercial reporters for the preparation of
transcripts of committee meetings and hear-
ings.
3. The Chairman is authorized to issue, on
behalf of the committee, regulations nor-
mally promulgated by the committee at the
beginning of each session.
TITLE VI—DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
TO COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN AND RANK-
ING MINORITY MEMBER
The Chairman and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber, acting jointly, are authorized to approve
on behalf of the committee any rule or regu-
lation for which the committee’s approval is
required, provided advance notice of their in-
tention to do so is given to Members of the
committee.
LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY
* passed Senate; + obviated
BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS CONSIDERED BY THE
SENATE
S. 1010, Register of Copyrights Selection
and Accountability Act of 2017
S. 1989, Honest Ads Act
S. 2261, Secure Elections Act
S. 2939, Shell Company Abuse Act
S.J. Res. 30, a joint resolution providing
for the reappointment of Steve Case as a cit-
izen regent of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution. Public Law No.
115–27.
S.J. Res. 35, a joint resolution providing
for the appointment of Michael Govan as a
citizen regent of the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution. Public Law No.
115–28.
S.J. Res. 36, a joint resolution providing
for the appointment of Roger W. Ferguson as
a citizen regent of the Board of Regents of
the Smithsonian Institution. Public Law No.
115–29.
S.J. Res. 60, a joint resolution providing
for the reappointment of Barbara M. Barrett
as a citizen regent of the Board of Regents of
the Smithsonian Institution. Public Law No.
115–199.
S. Res. 355, a resolution improving proce-
dures for the consideration of nominations in
the Senate.
S. Res. 463, a resolution authorizing a Sen-
ator to bring a young son or daughter of the
Senator onto the floor of the Senate during
votes. *
H.R. 1695, Register of Copyrights Selection
and Accountability Act
H.R. 3298, Wounded Officers Recovery Act
of 2017. Public Law No. 115–45. *
H.R. 4009, Smithsonian National Zoological
Park Central Parking Facility Authorization
Act. Public Law No. 115–178. *
H. Con. Res. 149, directing the Clerk of the
House of Representatives to make certain
corrections in the enrollment of H.R. 4174.
H. Con. Res. 148, directing the Secretary of
the Senate to make a correction in the en-
rollment of the bill S. 3628. *
H. Con. Res. 112, authorizing the use of
Emancipation Hall in the Capitol Visitor
Center for an event to celebrate the birthday
of King Kamehameha I. *
H. Con. Res. 107, authorizing Reverend
Billy Graham to lie in honor in the rotunda
of the Capitol. *
H. Con. Res. 106, authorizing the use of
Emancipation Hall for a ceremony to present
the Congressional Gold Medal collectively to
the members of the Office of Strategic Serv-
ices. *
H. Con. Res. 103, authorizing the use of
Emancipation Hall for a ceremony as part of
the commemoration of the days of remem-
brance of victims of the Holocaust. *
H. Con. Res. 102, authorizing the use of
Emancipation Hall in the Capitol Visitor
Center for an event to celebrate the 200th an-
niversary of the birth of Frederick Douglass.
*
H. Con. Res. 18, permitting the use of the
rotunda of the Capitol for a ceremony as
part of the commemoration of the days of re-
membrance of victims of the Holocaust. *
ORIGINAL RESOLUTIONS FROM THE COMMITTEE
S. Res. 62, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by committees of the Sen-
ate for the periods March 1, 2017 through
September 30, 2017, October 1, 2017 through
September 30, 2018, and October 1, 2018
through February 28, 2019. *
RESOLUTIONS RELATED TO COMMITTEE FUNDING
S. Res. 20, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation. +
S. Res. 21, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on the
Judiciary. +
S. Res. 22, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. +
S. Res. 24, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs. +
S. Res. 30, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on Ag-
riculture, Nutrition, and Forestry. +
S. Res. 31, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Special Committee
on Aging. +
S. Res. 32, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship. +
S. Res. 33, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources.+
S. Res. 34, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs. +
S. Res. 36, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Senate Committee
on Indian Affairs. +
S. Res. 37, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on For-
eign Relations. +
S. Res. 39, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions. +
S. Res. 42, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works. +
S. Res. 46, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on the
Budget. +
S. Res. 48, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Select Committee
on Intelligence. +
S. Res. 52, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on Fi-
nance. +
S. Res. 53, an original resolution author-
izing expenditures by the Committee on
Armed Services. +
BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS REFERRED TO
COMMITTEE
S. 26, Presidential Tax Transparency Act
S. 27, a bill to establish an independent
commission to examine and report on the
facts regarding the extent of Russian official
and unofficial cyber operations and other at-
tempts to interfere in the 2016 United States
national election, and for other purposes.
S. 298, Senate Campaign Disclosure Parity
Act
S. 360, Same Day Registration Act
S. 402, a bill to direct the Joint Committee
on the Library to enter into an agreement
with the Harriet Tubman Statue Commis-
sion of the State of Maryland for the accept-
ance of a statue of Harriet Tubman for dis-
play in a prominent location in the United
States Capitol.
S. 589, Real Time Transparency Act
S. 1231, Vote By Mail Act of 2017
S. 1353, Automatic Voter Registration Act
of 2017
S. 1364, National Museum of the American
Latino Act
S. 1437, Voter Empowerment Act of 2017
S. 1498, Smithsonian American Women’s
History Museum Act
S. 1510, Helping State and Local Govern-
ments Prevent Cyber Attacks (HACK) Act
S. 1547, Anti-Voter Suppression Act
S. 1569, a bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to eliminate the non-application
of certain State waiver provisions to Mem-
bers of Congress and congressional staff.
S. 1585, DISCLOSE Act of 2017
S. 1604, Daniel Webster Congressional
Clerkship Act of 2017
S. 1608, Wounded Officers Recovery Act of
2017
S. 1660, Stop Foreign Donations Affecting
Our Elections Act
S. 1683, Restoring Integrity to America’s
Elections Act
S. 1772, Confederate Monument Removal
Act
S. 1783, PROVE Act
S. 1821, a bill to establish the National
Commission on the Cybersecurity of United
States Election Systems, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1828, Weekend Voting Act
S. 1929, Empower Act of 2017
S. 1931, Empowering Citizens Act
S. 1954, Smithsonian National Zoological
Park Central Parking Facility Authorization
Act
S. 2035, SAVE Act
S. 2106, Register America to Vote Act
S. 2240, Students VOTE Act
S. 2330, Earmark Elimination Act of 2018
S. 2467, a bill to direct the Joint Com-
mittee on the Library to obtain a statue of
Shirley Chisholm for placement in the
United States Capitol.
S. 2593, Secure Elections Act
S. 2673, PAPER Act of 2018
S. 2917, Pay for Printing Act
S. 2944, PAPER Act of 2018
S. 3049, Protecting American Votes and
Elections Act of 2018
S. 3090, Save Voters Act
S. 3116, PRIDE Voting Act
S. 3150, DISCLOSE Act of 2018
S. 3274, CLEAN Act of 2018
S. 3572, ESIA
S. 3573, Protect our Elections Act
S. 3708, One Subject at a Time Act
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.076 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5241
July 31, 2019
S. 3709, Read the Bills Act
S. 3735, SuperPAC Elimination Act of 2018
S. Con. Res. 19, a concurrent resolution
commemorating the 50th anniversary of the
Smithsonian Folklife Festival.
S. Res. 23, a resolution establishing the Se-
lect Committee on Cybersecurity.
S. Res. 110, Shutdown Accountability Reso-
lution
S. Res. 197, a resolution to provide suffi-
cient time for legislation to be read.
S. Res. 198, a resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate that any sweeping health
care legislation must be drafted in public
under the watchful eye of the people of the
United States.
S. Res. 251, a resolution amending rule
XXXI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, to
provide for timely consideration of nomina-
tions.
S. Res. 268, a resolution recognizing Sep-
tember 26, 2017, as ‘‘National Voter Registra-
tion Day’’.
S. Res. 323, STOP Sexual Harassment Reso-
lution Sponsor
S. Res. 396, a resolution to establish a spe-
cial committee of the Senate to address sex-
ual abuse within United States Olympic
Gymnastics.
S. Res. 581, a resolution authorizing the
Senate Legal Counsel to represent the Sen-
ate in Texas v. United States, No. 4:18–cv–
00167–O (N.D. Tex.).
S. Res. 594, a resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate regarding the Govern-
ment of the Russian Federation’s ongoing at-
tacks against the United States election sys-
tem to undermine our democracy by inter-
fering with our election system, and affirm-
ing the Senate’s unequivocal commitment to
holding the Russian Federation, President
Putin, and those who carried out the attacks
accountable.
S. Res. 626, a resolution designating Sep-
tember 2018 as ‘‘National Voting Rights
Month’’.
S. Res. 718, A resolution establishing the
John S. McCain III Human Rights Commis-
sion.
S. Res. 724, a resolution amending rule
XXXI of the Standing Rules of the Senate to
limit the time during which a nomination
shall be confirmed or rejected, and for other
purposes.
S. Res. 725, a resolution modifying ex-
tended debate in the Senate to improve the
legislative process.
S. Res. 726, a resolution amending rule
XXVIII of the Standing Rules of the Senate
to provide for timely establishment of con-
ference committees.
S. Res. 727, a resolution providing for con-
sideration of changes to rules for the pro-
ceedings of the Senate.
S. Res. 728, a resolution amending rule
XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate to
limit debate on motions to proceed.
S. Res. 729, a resolution amending rule XV
of the Standing Rules of the Senate to pro-
vide for consideration of a minimum number
of amendments.
S. Res. 734, a resolution authorizing the
Senate Legal Counsel to represent the Sen-
ate in Texas v. United States, No. 4:18–cv–
00167–O (N.D. Tex.).
H. Con. Res. 118, authorizing the printing
of ‘‘United States Capitol Grounds: Land-
scape Architect Frederick Law Olmstead’s
Design for Democracy’’ as a House docu-
ment.
COMMITTEE HEARINGS AND BUSINESS
MEETINGS
February 16, 2017—Business Meeting: Adopt
proposed Rules of Procedure for the Senate
Committee on Rules and Administration for
the 115th Congress
December 19, 2017—Committee Hearing:
Review of S. Res. 355
April 25, 2018—Markup: Improving Proce-
dures for the Consideration of Nominations
in the Senate
June 20, 2018—Committee Hearing: Elec-
tion Security Preparations: A State and
Local Perspective
July 11, 2018—Committee Hearing: Election
Security Preparations: Federal and Vendor
Perspectives
September 26, 2018—Committee Hearing:
Register of Copyrights Selection and Ac-
countability Act
November 28, 2018—Nomination Hearing:
Nomination Hearing for Donald L. Palmer
and Benjamin W. Hovland
December 5, 2018—Business Meeting: To
Consider the Nominations of Donald L.
Palmer and Benjamin W. Hovland
December 6, 2018—Committee Hearing:
Oversight of the Architect of the Capitol’s
Human Resources Policies
NOMINATIONS
PN2559 Benjamin Hovland, of Maryland, to
be a Member of the Election Assistance Com-
mission for a term expiring December 12,
2019, vice Rosemary E. Rodriguez, term ex-
pired.
Latest Action: January 02, 2019—Confirmed
by the Senate by Voice Vote.
PN2284 Donald L. Palmer, of Florida, to be
a Member of the Election Assistance Com-
mission for a term expiring December 12,
2021, vice Matthew Vincent Masterson, re-
signed.
Latest Action: January 02, 2019—Confirmed
by the Senate by Voice Vote.
PN2150 Robert C. Tapella, of Virginia, to be
Director of the Government Publishing Of-
fice, vice Davita Vance-Cooks.
Latest Action: January 03, 2019—Returned
to the President under the provisions of Sen-
ate Rule XXXI, paragraph 6 of the Standing
Rules of the Senate.
PN1425 James E. Trainor III, of Texas, to
be a Member of the Federal Election Com-
mission for a term expiring April 30, 2023,
vice Matthew S. Petersen, term expired.
Latest Action: January 03, 2019—Returned
to the President under the provisions of Sen-
ate Rule XXXI, paragraph 6 of the Standing
Rules of the Senate.
PN1024 James E. Trainor III, of Texas, to
be a Member of the Federal Election Com-
mission for a term expiring April 30, 2023,
vice Matthew S. Petersen, term expired.
Latest Action: January 03, 2018—Returned
to the President under the provisions of Sen-
ate Rule XXXI, paragraph 6 of the Standing
Rules of the Senate.
COMMITTEE PUBLICATIONS
S. Prt. 115–3—Expenditure Authorizations
and Requirements for Senate Committees
S. Prt. 115–4—Congressional Pictorial Di-
rectory
S. Rept. 115–20—Review of Legislative Ac-
tivity during the 114th Congress
S. Pub. 115–7—The Congressional Directory
S. Doc. 115–4—Authority and Rules of Sen-
ate Committees, 2017–2018
S. Doc. 115–18—Tributes Delivered in Con-
gress: Kelly Ayotte, United States Senator—
2011–2017
S. Doc. 115–19—Tributes Delivered in Con-
gress: Barbara Boxer, United States Con-
gresswoman—1983–1993, United States Sen-
ator—1993–2017
S. Doc. 115–20—Tributes Delivered in Con-
gress: Daniel Coats, United States Congress-
man—1981–1989, United States Senator—2011–
2017
S. Doc. 115–21—Tributes Delivered in Con-
gress: Mark Kirk, United States Senator—
2010–2017
S. Doc. 115–22—Tributes Delivered in Con-
gress: Barbara A. Mikulski, United States
Congressman—1977–1987, United States Sen-
ator—1987–2017
S. Doc. 115–23—Tributes Delivered in Con-
gress: Harry Reid, United States Congress-
man—1933–1987, United States Senator—1987–
2017
S. Doc. 115–24—Tributes Delivered in Con-
gress: David Vitter, United States Congress-
man—1999–2005, United States Senator—2005–
2017
S. Doc. 115–25—Tributes Delivered in Con-
gress: Joseph R. Biden, Jr.,—United States
Vice President of the Senate—2009-2017,
United States Senator—1973–2009
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS
POM9 Senate Rules and Administration
(January 12, 2017)
A petition from a citizen of the State of
Minnesota relative to the Minnesota Presi-
dential Certificate of Vote; to the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration.
EC212 Senate Rules and Administration
(January 04, 2017)
A communication from the Director, Office
of Congressional Affairs, Federal Election
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
a report relative to the Commission’s com-
petitive sourcing efforts during fiscal year
2016; to the Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration.
EC213 Senate Rules and Administration
(January 04, 2017)
A communication from the Librarian of
Congress, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
Annual Report of the Librarian of Congress
for fiscal year 2015; to the Committee on
Rules and Administration.
EC471 Senate Rules and Administration
(January 12, 2017)
A communication from the Assistant At-
torney General, Office of Legislative Affairs,
Department of Justice, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the annual report from the Attor-
ney General to Congress relative to the Uni-
formed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Vot-
ing Act; to the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration.
EC472 Senate Rules and Administration
(January 12, 2017)
A communication from the Assistant At-
torney General, Office of Legislative Affairs,
Department of Justice, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the annual report from the Attor-
ney General to Congress relative to the Uni-
formed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Vot-
ing Act; to the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration.
EC1031 Senate Rules and Administration
(March 15, 2017)
A communication from the Chairman,
Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
relative to the memorial construction; to the
Committee on Rules and Administration.
EC1666 Senate Veterans’ Affairs and other
committees . . . (June 06,2017)
A communication from the Director, Office
of Management and Budget, Executive Office
of the President, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘OMB Sequestration
Preview Report to the President and Con-
gress for Fiscal Year 2018’’; to the Special
Committee on Aging; Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry; Appropriations; Armed Serv-
ices; Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs;
the Budget; Commerce, Science, and Trans-
portation; Energy and Natural Resources;
Environment and Public Works; Select Com-
mittee on Ethics; Finance; Foreign Rela-
tions; Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions; Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs; Indian Affairs; Select Committee on
Intelligence; the Judiciary; Rules and Ad-
ministration; Small Business and Entrepre-
neurship; and Veterans’ Affairs.
EC1667 Senate Veterans’ Affairs and other
committees . . . (June 06, 2017)
A communication from the Director, Office
of Management and Budget, Executive Office
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.077 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5242 July 31, 2019
of the President, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘OMB Final Sequestra-
tion Report to the President and Congress
for Fiscal Year 2017’’; to the Special Com-
mittee on Aging; Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry; Appropriations; Armed Services;
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs; the
Budget; Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation; Energy and Natural Resources; Envi-
ronment and Public Works; Select Com-
mittee on Ethics; Finance; Foreign Rela-
tions; Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs; Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions; Indian Affairs; Select Committee on
Intelligence; the Judiciary; Rules and Ad-
ministration; Small Business and Entrepre-
neurship; and Veterans’ Affairs.
EC2860 Senate Rules and Administration
(September 19, 2017) A communication from
the Chair, Federal Election Commission,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to its budget request for fiscal year
2019; to the Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration.
EC2984 Senate Rules and Administration
(October 04, 2017)
A communication from the Librarian of
Congress, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
Annual Report of the Librarian of Congress
for fiscal year 2016; to the Committee on
Rules and Administration.
EC3415 Senate Rules and Administration
(November 08, 2017)
A communication from the Chairman,
Board of Trustees, and the President, John
F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to the Center’s consolidated financial
statements, supplemental schedules of oper-
ations, and independent auditor’s report for
years ended October 2, 2016, and September
27, 2015, and a report relative to the Center’s
schedule of expenditures of federal awards
and independent auditor’s reports for the
year ended October 2, 2016; to the Committee
on Rules and Administration.
EC3865 Senate Rules and Administration
(January 04, 2018)
A communication from the Chairman, Fed-
eral Election Commission, transmitting pro-
posed legislation; to the Committee on Rules
and Administration.
EC3971 Senate Rules and Administration
(January 09, 2018)
A communication from the Assistant At-
torney General, Office of Legislative Affairs,
Department of Justice, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the annual report from the Attor-
ney General to Congress relative to the Uni-
formed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Vot-
ing Act; to the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration.
EC3972 Senate Rules and Administration
(January 09, 2018)
A communication from the Assistant At-
torney General, Office of Legislative Affairs,
Department of Justice, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the annual report from the Attor-
ney General to Congress relative to the Uni-
formed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Vot-
ing Act; to the Committee on Rules and Ad-
ministration.
EC4039 Senate Rules and Administration
(January 11, 2018)
A communication from the Director, Office
of Congressional Affairs, Federal Election
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
a report relative to the Commission’s com-
petitive sourcing efforts during fiscal year
2017; to the Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration.
EC4362 Senate Veterans’ Affairs and other
committees . . . (February 27, 2018)
A communication from the Director, Office
of Management and Budget, Executive Office
of the President, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘OMB Report to the
Congress on the Joint Committee Reductions
for Fiscal Year 2019’’; to the Special Com-
mittee on Aging; Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry; Appropriations; Armed Services;
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs; the
Budget; Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation; Energy and Natural Resources; Envi-
ronment and Public Works; Select Com-
mittee on Ethics; Finance; Foreign Rela-
tions; Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions; Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs; Indian Affairs; Select Committee on
Intelligence; the Judiciary; Rules and Ad-
ministration; Small Business and Entrepre-
neurship; and Veterans’ Affairs.
EC4363 Senate Veterans’ Affairs and other
committees . . . (February 27, 2018)
A communication from the Director, Office
of Management and Budget, Executive Office
of the President, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘OMB Sequestration
Preview Report to the President and Con-
gress for Fiscal Year 2019’’; to the Special
Committee on Aging; Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry; Appropriations; Armed Serv-
ices; Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs;
the Budget; Commerce, Science, and Trans-
portation; Energy and Natural Resources;
Environment and Public Works; Select Com-
mittee on Ethics; Finance; Foreign Rela-
tions; Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions; Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs; Indian Affairs; Select Committee on
Intelligence; the Judiciary; Rules and Ad-
ministration; Small Business and Entrepre-
neurship; and Veterans’ Affairs.
EC4774 Senate Veterans’ Affairs and other
committees . . . (April 11, 2018)
A communication from the Director, Office
of Management and Budget, Executive Office
of the President, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘OMB Final Sequestra-
tion Report to the President and Congress
for Fiscal Year 2018’’; to the Special Com-
mittee on Aging; Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry; Appropriations; Armed Services;
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs; the
Budget; Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation; Energy and Natural Resources; Envi-
ronment and Public Works; Select Com-
mittee on Ethics; Finance; Foreign Rela-
tions; Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions; Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs; Indian Affairs; Select Committee on
Intelligence; the Judiciary; Rules and Ad-
ministration; Small Business and Entrepre-
neurship; and Veterans’ Affairs.
EC6339 Senate Rules and Administration
(August 27, 2018)
A communication from the Secretary of
Homeland Security, transmitting a report
relative to efforts to protect the United
States’ election infrastructure; to the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration.
EC6366 Senate Veterans’ Affairs and other
committees . . . (September 06, 2018)
A communication from the Director, Office
of Management and Budget, Executive Office
of the President, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘OMB Sequestration
Update Report to the President and Congress
for Fiscal Year 2019’’; to the Special Com-
mittee on Aging; Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry; Appropriations; Armed Services;
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs; the
Budget; Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation; Energy and Natural Resources; Envi-
ronment and Public Works; Select Com-
mittee on Ethics; Finance; Foreign Rela-
tions; Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions; Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs; Indian Affairs; Select Committee on
Intelligence; the Judiciary; Rules and Ad-
ministration; Small Business and Entrepre-
neurship; and Veterans’ Affairs.
EC6516 Senate Rules and Administration
(September 17, 2018)
A communication from the Librarian of
Congress, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
Annual Report of the Librarian of Congress
for fiscal year 2017; to the Committee on
Rules and Administration.
EC6517 Senate Rules and Administration
(September 17, 2018)
A communication from the Chair, Federal
Election Commission, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a report relative to its budget re-
quest for fiscal year 2020; to the Committee
on Rules and Administration.
EC7070 Senate Rules and Administration
(November 15, 2018)
A communication from the Chairman,
Board of Trustees, and the President, John
F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to the Center’s consolidated financial
statements, supplemental schedules of oper-
ations, and independent auditor’s report for
years ended October 1, 2017, and October 2,
2016, and a report relative to the Center’s
schedule of expenditures of federal awards
and independent auditor’s reports for the
year ended October 1, 2017; to the Committee
on Rules and Administration.
EC7577 Senate Rules and Administration
(December 20, 2018)
A communication from the Assistant Gen-
eral Counsel, Federal Election Commission,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Reporting Multistate Inde-
pendent Expenditures and Electioneering
Communications’’ (Notice 2018–17) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on December 20, 2018; to the Committee on
Rules and Administration.
f
E-FRONTIER ACT
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today I
wish to give notice of my intent to ob-
ject to any unanimous consent agree-
ment regarding S. 918, the E-FRON-
TIER Act.
In January of 2018, media reports re-
vealed that officials in the National
Security Council were considering a
proposal for the Federal Government
to pay for and build a national 5G tele-
communications network. This pro-
posal was then widely criticized by top
administration officials, including Fed-
eral Communications Commission
Chairman Ajit Pai and White House
Economic Adviser Larry Kudlow. The
President himself subsequently
distanced himself from the proposal
and made it clear that he favored a 5G
strategy that is private-sector driven
and led.
In response to this controversial pro-
posal, a Senator introduced the E-
FRONTIER Act. This bill prohibits the
Federal Government from con-
structing, operating, or offering retail
or wholesale services on broadband net-
works absent congressional authoriza-
tion.
My colleague stated the bill is in-
tended to ‘‘protect commercial 5G
broadband networks from nationaliza-
tion without authorization from Con-
gress.’’ While I agree that there is no
need, at the current time, for the Fed-
eral Government to offer commercial
wireless service in well-served urban
markets, I do not believe that Congress
should be taking any options off the
table when it comes to delivering high-
speed wireless broadband to rural com-
munities that have long been ignored
by the private sector.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.079 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5243
July 31, 2019
This bill is also drafted so that its
impact would extend significantly be-
yond its stated goal. Not only would
my colleagues’ proposal prohibit the
Federal Government from operating
commercial wireless networks without
explicit congressional authorization,
but it would also prohibit the govern-
ment from operating wireline net-
works, such as fiber and cable net-
works.
Passing this legislation would bar
the Federal Government from offering
fiber-to-the-home connectivity to the
tens of millions or Americans who cur-
rently have no meaningful option for
high-speed broadband internet access
at home. In effect, it would tell Ameri-
cans in rural and low-income commu-
nities across the country that, if the
private sector does not think it can
make a profit offering service in their
communities, that is the end of the
line for them. Outside of providing sub-
sidies, the Federal Government would
be barred from addressing these mar-
ket failures by contracting to build the
infrastructure itself.
Time and time again, Congress has,
on an overwhelmingly bipartisan basis,
maintained the critical importance of
delivering broadband to all Americans,
and not just those in big cities. This
body should not ban any option for
internet connectivity without fulsome
debate and regular order.
Unfortunately, this need case is far
from a hypothetical. As many as 162
million Americans across the country
do not have access to internet service
at broadband speeds, according to one
recent analysis cited by the FCC. Con-
gress should be passing laws that work
to close this gap and not those that tie
our hands as millions and millions of
Americans are left behind in this new
digital divide. It is an issue of fairness,
it is an issue of equality, and it is an
issue that must be subjected to vig-
orous public debate.
So I rise today with a simple and
straightforward request: Before Con-
gress limits possible broadband build-
out options for decades to come, let’s
give my colleagues’ proposal the care-
ful consideration that it deserves. I
look forward to working with my col-
leagues to see if we can resolve some of
these outstanding issues in a manner
that is fair, transparent, and timely.
For all of these reasons, I will object
to any unanimous consent agreement
to consider S. 918.
f
CONFIRMATION OF HEATH P.
TARBERT
Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. President, today
I applaud the Senate’s bipartisan con-
firmation of Dr. Heath Tarbert to head
the Commodity Futures Trading Co-
mission. I am confident that Dr.
Tarbert, who is no stranger to public
service, will lead the CFTC well. As the
former acting Under Secretary for
International Affairs at the Depart-
ment of the Treasury, Dr. Tarbert has
exactly the right experience, at the
right time, to lead the CFTC. The
CFTC needs a strong leader like Dr.
Tarbert. He understands how the mar-
kets are impacted by actions taken by
Congress and U.S. Federal regulators,
as well as those of our legislative and
regulatory partners around the world.
His experience clearly demonstrates
appreciation of what led to the finan-
cial crisis 10 years ago. Dr. Tarbert
also has the support of a range of agri-
cultural groups, all voicing strong
sport and appreciation for his experi-
ence in the financial sector, the effort
demonstrated to understand priority
issues, and the commitment to visiting
agricultural operations to reinforce the
importance of these markets to farm-
ers, ranchers, growers, and agri-
business.
The CFTC is charged with fostering
open, transparent, competitive, and fi-
nancially sound markets, while work-
ing to prevent systemic risk. The regu-
lation and oversight provided by the
CFTC allows end users—farmers,
ranchers, commercial companies, mu-
nicipalities, energy companies, pension
funds, and others—to hedge commer-
cial risk using the derivatives market.
These markets allow companies to gen-
erate jobs and produce goods and serv-
ices for our economy. I look forward to
working with Dr. Tarbert in his new
role. Thank you.
f
CAMEROON
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, today I
wish to discuss the grave situation in
Cameroon, specifically the targeted at-
tacks against the English-speaking mi-
nority community there, the ongoing
conflict between armed separatist
groups and Cameroonian security
forces, and the country’s many polit-
ical prisoners. In response to the esca-
lation of conflict in Cameroon’s north-
west and southwest regions, yesterday,
Senator YOUNG and I introduced a reso-
lution calling on the Government of
Cameroon and armed separatist groups
to respect the human rights of all
Cameroonian citizens, to end all vio-
lence, and to pursue an inclusive dia-
logue to resolve the conflict.
Since the outbreak of violence in
2016, Cameroon’s security forces have
been credibly accused of grave human
rights abuses, from suppressing the
basic freedoms of expression and as-
sembly, and arbitrarily detaining those
who challenge the President’s author-
ity, to torture and extrajudicial
killings. The victims of these abuses
include Anglophone activists, some of
whom were forcibly returned to Cam-
eroon after fleeing to Nigeria. Since
2016, entire villages have been burned
down, displacing hundreds of thousands
of Cameroonians from their commu-
nities.
Where did this all begin? The current
conflict can be traced back to Cam-
eroon’s colonial history, as a country
formed through merging pieces of a
former French colony with parts of a
former British colony. The
Francophone majority has held much
of the land since 1961, when Cameroon
gained its independence. All the while,
the Anglophone minority held on to its
language and distinct judicial and edu-
cational systems as it continued to be
governed largely by French speakers.
About 3 years ago, this all began to
shift. The Francophone government
began implementing the French lan-
guage and imposing its own laws,
judges, and teachers in Anglophone
communities, and protestors rose up in
response. Anglophone Cameroonians
rightly saw this as an unjust imposi-
tion on their autonomy, as a tyranny
of the majority seeking to do away
with their language and identity. The
fact that Anglophone Cameroonians
are vastly underrepresented in the cen-
tral government only exacerbates their
grievances in this matter. In response
to citizens’ voicing their discontent,
the government cracked down, arrest-
ing hundreds of people—including
peaceful activists who were given ter-
rorism charges—and deploying the
military to Anglophone areas.
Over the past 3 years, violence has
claimed 2,000 lives in the Anglophone
region. Human Rights Watch has docu-
mented extensive burning of villages
by members of the security forces in
the last 2 years in both the northwest
and southwest regions, as well as ramp-
ant killings of civilians and sexual vio-
lence. According to a July 22 Human
Rights Watch report, Cameroonian se-
curity forces have killed at least four
civilians and raped one woman since
mid June alone during their security
operations in the northwest region.
Shockingly, those killed included an
elderly man with a physical disability
and a young man with a mental dis-
ability.
We cannot turn a blind eye to the cir-
cumstances there. My home State of
Maryland is home to a large, active
population of Cameroonian diasporans.
Marylander Sylvie Bello and members
of her advocacy organization, the Cam-
eroon American Council, have been a
leading diaspora voice calling for the
United States to encourage the
Cameroonian Government and armed
militias to stop the violence. Many in
the diaspora community across the
United States are working with civil
society organizations in Cameroon to
address the needs of internally dis-
placed persons, IDPs, in the northwest
and southwest regions of the country
and refugees on the Nigerian side of the
border.
This important community has made
something very clear to me and my
team, and I would like to take this op-
portunity to remind my colleagues in
the U.S. Congress of it. The conflict in
Cameroon greatly impacts Americans
here in the United States, whether it
be Americans with loved ones affected
by the conflict, those who have trav-
eled here to escape the conflict, or sim-
ply those of us who understand that
being silent on issues of human rights
is analogous to being complicit to their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.023 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5244 July 31, 2019
occurrence. I encourage the Govern-
ment of Cameroon to engage with dias-
pora organizations, along with a broad
spectrum of Cameroonian civil society
leader, in meaningful and constructive
dialogue to resolve the conflict.
Moving forward, as we look for ways
to address the situation in Cameroon,
we must look to longtime President
Paul Biya and his ongoing attacks on
the legitimacy of Cameroon’s democ-
racy. President Biya rose to office in
1982 after serving as Prime Minister. In
2008, Presidential term limits were re-
moved from Cameroon’s Constitution.
Protests ensued, but when the public
wished to voice their disapproval of
this decision, security forces violently
repressed their actions.
In October 2018, Biya claimed a sev-
enth Presidential victory in an election
that many considered to be neither free
nor fair. There were numerous credible
reports of fraud, voter intimidation, vi-
olence, and low voter turnout in the
Anglophone regions. The opposition
party who reportedly came in second
place, the Cameroon Renaissance
Movement, claims that it had the sup-
port of the people. In January of this
year, protests and demonstrations
against the October elections were
summarily suppressed by the Biya re-
gime. Over 200 people were arrested, in-
cluding opposition leader Maurice
Kamto and his close supporters.
The United Nations Secretary Gen-
eral, Amnesty International, and the
International Law Commission have
called for Mr. Kamto’s release, and just
last month, thousands of Cameroonians
demonstrated in Yaounde with the
same demand. Biya’s government
forces responded as they usually do, by
arresting 73 of the demonstrators.
Even members of the President’s own
inner circle are not immune to his
thuggery. In 2012, Mr. Marafa Hamidou
Yaya, the former Secretary General of
the Presidency, was arrested and sen-
tenced to 25 years in prison for com-
plicity in an embezzlement scheme
that many suspect befell him not be-
cause of any actual involvement in em-
bezzlement, but as a way to prevent
him from ever challenging Biya for the
Presidency. His arrest and imprison-
ment make clear that Biya will target
anyone who threatens grip on power.
President Biya has the broad author-
ity to appoint and dismiss the Prime
Minister, Cabinet members, judges,
generals, and governors. The executive
and judicial branches are clearly a
product of the President’s preference,
rather than a reflection of the will of
the people. Although several press out-
lets exist and multiple political parties
compete in elections, freedom of ex-
pression is greatly constrained. Jour-
nalists have been jailed, and Reporters
Without Borders has described the cir-
cumstances for Cameroonian media as
a ‘‘climate of fear.’’
In addition to these democratic con-
cerns, Cameroon currently faces three
major humanitarian challenges, which
are exasperated by President Biya’s un-
checked authority. About 275,000 refu-
gees from the Central African Republic
reside in the eastern part of Cameroon.
In the north, Boko Haram threatens
the communities near the Nigerian
border. And in the west, where most of
Cameroon’s Anglophone minority re-
sides, a conflict among government se-
curity forces and those seeking inde-
pendence from the rest of the country
continues to escalate.
If that wasn’t enough, reports indi-
cate that U.S. military assistance to
Cameroon is being used to arm the
same forces accused of committing
atrocities against English-speaking
Cameroonians. For this reason, Sen-
ator DURBIN and I filed an amendment
to the National Defense Authorization
Act that would freeze security assist-
ance to Cameroon, except for those
funds that go towards combatting
Boko Haram, until the U.S. Depart-
ments of Defense and State can certify
that Cameroon’s military and security
forces have demonstrated progress in
abiding by international human rights
standards, particularly in regards to
their actions in the Anglophone region.
Although Cameroon is an important
partner in U.S. counterterrorism ef-
forts in the region, we cannot turn a
blind eye to the extreme violence the
government and its security forces
have inflicted on innocent civilians.
Human Rights Watch has documented
extensive burning of villages by mem-
bers of the security forces in the last 2
years in both the northwest and south-
west regions, as well as rampant
killings of civilians and sexual vio-
lence.
This February, the U.S. withheld
millions of dollars in security assist-
ance from Cameroon, on the condition
that Biya and his forces work to im-
prove the humanitarian situation
there. No county should be able to re-
ceive U.S. military assistance while
continuing to violently repress the
rights of its own population.
America’s strength is in our values.
We must call out instances of human
rights violations wherever they happen
in the world. As a Congress, we have a
special responsibility to use our voices
when it is another government who is
the perpetrator of these human rights
abuses. This is the case for the situa-
tion in Cameroon. The violence must
end. Innocent Cameroonians are caught
in the crossfires of this political battle.
Communities have become too dan-
gerous to live in. Hundreds of thou-
sands of Cameroonians have been
forced to flee their homes to escape the
violence inflicted upon them. In No-
vember 2018, the United Nations Office
for the Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs stated that at least 437,000 peo-
ple were internally displaced in Cam-
eroon from areas affected by this
Anglophone conflict.
There are also thousands of refugees
who have left Cameroon completely. As
of late November 2018, the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees reported that it had reg-
istered more than 32,000 Cameroonian
refugees in Nigeria who came from the
affected Anglophone regions. The per-
secuted Cameroonians seeking refuge
in Nigeria include dozens of
Anglophone activists, but in January
2018, 47 of those activists were forcibly
returned to Cameroonian authorities.
Many of those returned had reportedly
submitted asylum claims in Nigeria, so
it is especially troubling that they
were made to return to the country
from which they fled. Ten of the 47 ac-
tivists who were forcibly returned from
Nigeria now face charges before a mili-
tary court that would be punishable by
the death penalty. The other 37 report-
edly remain in detention without
charge.
Even non-Cameroonians have found
themselves in the midst of this tur-
moil. On October 30, 2018, U.S. mis-
sionary Charles Wesco was killed near
the town of Bamenda, Cameroon.
We must act in the face of these
gross violations of human rights. We
must encourage all actors in the
Cameroonian conflict to prioritize re-
spect for human life over the desire for
political gain. This must be done by
first agreeing to an immediate
ceasefire and allowing humanitarian
assistance to reach those in need. The
Cameroonian Government and Armed
Forces must exercise restraint in their
actions and ensure that protests re-
main peaceful.
Leaders on both sides must be willing
to engage in constructive dialogue with
civil society members to achieve to a
political solution, one that is based
upon respect for fundamental human
rights and freedoms. Failure to do so
will only prolong the conflict and lead
to an increase in violence and mass dis-
placement of the Anglophone minority.
In closing, I would like to again
thank Maryland’s vibrant Cameroonian
diaspora for their continued engage-
ment with myself and my office, and
encourage my Senate colleagues to
support my and Senator YOUNG’s reso-
lution which addresses many of these
issues. Congress has a responsibility to
continue to shine a spotlight on ongo-
ing human rights abuses and the duty
to advocate for upholding the rights of
all citizens in Cameroon, regardless of
their religious and political beliefs or
the regions in which they reside.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
RECOGNIZING THE 2019 ARKANSAS
WOMEN’S HALL OF FAME IN-
DUCTEES
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I rise
today to recognize the Arkansas Wom-
en’s Hall of Fame Class of 2019 induct-
ees and celebrate their contributions to
our State and our country.
Founded in 2014, the Arkansas Wom-
en’s Hall of Fame honors women whose
contributions have influenced the di-
rection of Arkansas in their commu-
nity or the State as a whole. The
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.028 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5245
July 31, 2019
AWHOF recognizes women, contem-
porary or historical, who have achieved
prominence within the State. By pro-
viding a place for women in the State
to be admired, the AWHOF inspires fu-
ture generations of young Arkansas
women to achieve great things.
Alice Andrews is a conservationist
and a leading voice for environmental
protection in Arkansas. As a farmer’s
daughter, Alice developed an interest
in the environment and protecting land
and water resources. Alice’s conserva-
tion efforts began with advocacy work
for the Buffalo River designation in
1972, which protects the river from in-
dustrial uses that may change its nat-
ural character or surrounding habitat.
She has continued her efforts by serv-
ing on the Arkansas Trails Council,
being appointed to the Arkansas Scenic
Rivers Commission and serving as
president of the Ozark Society. Alice
has also been credited with helping pre-
serve the landscape where iconic land-
marks including the Big Dam Bridge,
Two Rivers Bridge, and the River Trail,
can be found. Her continued support
and consultation with nonprofits, gov-
ernments, and local churches have
made Arkansas a better place for many
generations to live, work and play.
Olivia Myers Farrell is among Arkan-
sas’s most influential women in media.
She graduated from the University of
Arkansas at Little Rock before start-
ing her career as part of the adver-
tising department at the Arkansas
Writers Project at the Arkansas Times.
She then cofounded Arkansas Business
and Southern magazine in the years
following. Olivia has been honored as a
Young Achiever by the National Coun-
cil of Women of the United States—one
of only six women selected in 1984 and
the first Arkansas woman to receive
the honor. She then became the CEO
and principal owner of the Arkansas
Business Publishing Group, which has
received numerous awards for out-
standing journalism by its publica-
tions, including Arkansas Business,
Little Rock Family, and Little Rock
Soiree. In 1998, she cofounded the Ar-
kansas Women’s Foundation to im-
prove the educational status and skills
of Arkansas women and girls in STEM
fields, promote philanthropy by and for
women, and enhance the economic via-
bility of emerging leaders in Arkansas.
Her efforts in the community earned
her the Distinguished Citizen Award
given by former Governor Mike Beebe
in 2012.
Jo Luck attended Hendrix College be-
fore graduating from David Lipscomb
College with a degree in education in
1963. Jo went on to earn a master’s de-
gree from Harvard University’s John F.
Kennedy School of Government and
served as the assistant director in the
Governor’s Office of Volunteer Services
before becoming the first director of
the Arkansas Advocates for Children
and Families. Under Governor Bill
Clinton, she became the executive di-
rector of the Arkansas Department of
Parks and Tourism. Under Jo’s guid-
ance, the economic impact of Arkan-
sas’ tourism industry more than dou-
bled. In 1992, she became president and
CEO of Little Rock-based Heifer Inter-
national—a global nonprofit dedicated
to fighting hunger and poverty—where
she served until 2010. Under her leader-
ship, the organization’s state-of-the-
art, LEED-certified headquarters was
designed and built. In 2011, Jo was ap-
pointed by Barack Obama to serve on
the U.S. Agency for International De-
velopment’s Board for International
Food and Agricultural Development.
She has worked throughout her career
to improve food availability around the
globe and promote sustainable agricul-
tural practices.
Charlotte Tillar Schexnayder was
born in Tillar, AR, in 1923. When she
was 16 years old, she enrolled in the
University of Arkansas at Monticello
while also freelance writing for the
McGehee Times. She went on to be-
come editor of the McGehee Times in
October 1944. She and her husband Mel-
vin worked at the newspaper for 6
years before purchasing the Dumas
Clarion, which they owned for more
than four decades. Although the paper
was largely known for local news,
Charlotte took an editorial stand on
many issues, including the desegrega-
tion of Central High School in Little
Rock along with economic and develop-
ment issues in Dumas, AR. Along with
being a critical voice in local media,
Charlotte was a board member of the
Dumas Chamber of Commerce and
served as the first female president of
the organization. In 1975, Governor
David Pryor appointed Charlotte to the
Arkansas Board of Pardons and Parole,
making her the first female to serve on
the group’s board. Charlotte went on to
become president of many journalism
organizations, including Arkansas
Press Women, the Little Rock chapter
of the Society of Professional Journal-
ists, the National Federation of Press
Women, the Arkansas Press Associa-
tion, and the National Newspaper Asso-
ciation. In 1984, she was elected to the
State house of representatives where
she served until 1999. While in office,
she was the lead sponsor for several
bills, including the expansion of the
Freedom of Information Act, a bill cre-
ating the Arkansas Ethics Commission,
and the creation of a sales tax for a re-
search center and endowed chair at the
University of Arkansas for Medical
Sciences in alcohol abuse prevention.
Charlotte’s consistent efforts to im-
prove her community and State are
both courageous and groundbreaking.
Carolyn Witherspoon graduated from
the University of Arkansas at Little
Rock in 1974 and continued her edu-
cation at the UALR School of Law,
where she graduated with honors in
1978. Throughout her legal career,
Carolyn has advocated for promoting a
healthy work-life balance and sup-
ported and founded organizations that
serve women. She served as the com-
missioner of the Arkansas Real Estate
Commission from 1978 until 1981, when
she became the president of the Arkan-
sas Association of Women’s Lawyers.
Her law practice has centered on rep-
resenting private and public employees
in defending employment-related mat-
ters, including title VII litigation. Her
practice has led her to serve as presi-
dent of the Pulaski County Bar Asso-
ciation and the Arkansas Bar Associa-
tion, where she became the first
woman to hold that position. As one of
the top lawyers from Arkansas, she has
been honored to serve on the Union
Internationale des Advocats. Carolyn
has also earned recognition from the
American Psychological Association,
the Society for Human Resources Man-
agement, and the State of Arkansas.
Her firm has been honored with the WE
WORKs Award three times for incor-
porating flexibility in workplace prac-
tices. Under her direction, Cross, Gun-
ter, Witherspoon, and Galchus is the
only firm in the State of Arkansas
with 50 percent ownership by female
attorneys. Her community involve-
ment includes serving on the Arkansas
Coalition Against Sexual Assault and
as former president of the Women’s
Foundation of Arkansas, as well as pro-
viding legal services to low-income
people through a program known as
VOCALS. We can be proud of Carolyn’s
contributions to the legal community
in our State, country, and internation-
ally.
Diane Frances Divers Kincaid Blair
was born in Washington, DC in 1938.
She graduated cum laude from Cornell
University’s Department of Govern-
ment in 1959. When she returned to
Washington, she served as an analyst
for the President’s Committee on Gov-
ernment Contracts, a research assist-
ant with the Senate Special Committee
on Unemployment, and legislative sec-
retary and speechwriter for former U.S.
Senator Stuart Symington of Missouri.
After marrying Arkansan Hugh
Kincaid, she moved to Fayetteville in
1963. Diane completed her master’s de-
gree through the Department of Polit-
ical Science at the University of Ar-
kansas in 1967. The following year,
Kincaid became a part-time lecturer in
political science at the University of
Arkansas at Fayetteville and in 1979
became an assistant professor of polit-
ical science. In 1971, Governor Dale
Bumpers appointed Diane to chair the
Governor’s Commission on the Status
of Women. In 1976, Governor David
Pryor selected her to chair a commis-
sion on public employee rights. In 1980,
she was appointed to the commission
for the Arkansas Educational Tele-
vision Networks, where she served
until 1993. She also served as an advisor
for the Clinton-Gore campaign in 1992
and 4 years later worked on the Presi-
dent’s reelection campaign. President
Clinton appointed Diane to the board
of directors of the U.S. Corporation for
Public Broadcasting, which she later
chaired. Diane authored two books, in-
cluding ‘‘Arkansas Politics and Gov-
ernment: Do the People Rule?’’ which
is used by many Arkansas colleges and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.026 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5246 July 31, 2019
universities as part of their curricu-
lums. Blair passed away in 2000 of lung
cancer, but left behind a legacy of serv-
ice and dedication to the State of Ar-
kansas.
Louise McPhetridge Thaden was born
in Bentonville on a small family farm
and became interested in aviation at
an early age. She attended the Univer-
sity of Arkansas, but never graduated.
Instead, she continued to pursue her
love of flying, taking her skills to Kan-
sas and eventually California and
working various jobs until she eventu-
ally earned her pilot’s license. She be-
came the only female pilot to simulta-
neously hold the women’s record for
speed, altitude, and solo endurance,
beating out Amelia Earhart and other
pilots at the National Women’s Air
Derby in 1929. Together Earhart and
Thaden formed the Ninety-Nines, an
advocacy group for women pilots. Addi-
tionally, Louise opened a flight school
for women at the Penn School of Avia-
tion and raised the scholarship money
for its first 12 students. In 1932, she set
a refueling endurance record of 196
hours in the air over Long Island. In
1936, Louise became the first woman to
win the Bendix Transcontinental Air
Race from New York to Los Angeles.
She was the 1937 recipient of the Har-
mon Trophy, which is the highest
honor given to a female pilot. Her
achievements have been honored in nu-
merous ways, including by the commu-
nity of Bentonville, where its airport
now bears her name, as well as by
former Governor David Pryor’s dec-
laration of August 22 as ‘‘Louise M.
Thaden Day.’’ She was posthumously
inducted into the International Aero-
space Hall of Fame in 1999. Louise’s
pioneering and competitive spirit will
continue to inspire future generations
of pilots and women for many years to
come.
The final inductee, Alpha Kappa
Alpha Sorority’s Beta Pi Omega Chap-
ter, was chartered in Little Rock in
1937. It is the oldest graduate chapter
in the State of Arkansas. The chapter’s
265 members regularly complete serv-
ice projects and host health fairs,
workshops, education programs, voter
drive, and fundraisers. The group’s
members use their education, skill, and
expertise to make an impact in the
community. Beta Pi Omega has spon-
sored the chartering of two new Alpha
Kappa Alpha chapters in the State,
Gamma Alpha Chapter at Philander
Smith College and Epsilon Phi Chapter
at the University of Arkansas at Little
Rock. Through the years, over 500 High
School seniors and college students
have received scholarships or other as-
sistance from Beta Pi Omega. The
chapter has been recognized for its pro-
grams and partnerships with the Little
Rock School District, American Heart
Association, University of Arkansas for
Medical Sciences, and Lions Club
International. Alpha Kappa Alpha So-
rority’s Beta Pi Omega chapter has
demonstrated a true commitment to
improving Arkansas for future genera-
tions of citizens in all corners of the
State.
Congratulations to the 2019 Arkansas
Women’s Hall of Fame inductees. We
are grateful for their contributions to
our State and the work they have done
to inspire all Arkansans to achieve
great things and help their neighbors
and fellow citizens through their ef-
forts to uplift and improve their com-
munities.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO FATHER THOMAS
TOBIN
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
Father Thomas Tobin, of Carter Coun-
ty, for his leadership in the church and
devotion to serving the faithful of Mon-
tana.
Father Tobin was ordained in a small
church in Tipperary, Ireland, in June
of 1959, shortly after, he made the trek
to Montana in September of 1959. Dur-
ing his 38 years of service, he min-
istered across Big Sky Country, includ-
ing in Billings, Hilger, Livingston, Big
Sandy, Baker, and Ekalaka.
As a member of the Knights of Co-
lumbus, Father Tobin has been active
in promoting Christian values from his
local parish to the broader community.
Father Tobin has been a strong de-
fender of the pro-life movement—regu-
larly defending the rights of the un-
born from the pulpit. He has partici-
pated in a handful of right-to-life
marches and has routinely promoted
pro-life activities.
During the days leading up to the
9/11 attacks, Father Tobin was in New
York City visiting parishes. When the
attacks unfolded, Father Tobin delayed
his return home to Montana/to pray
and minister to the people of New York
City.
In addition to his devout faith and
commitment to others, Father Tobin
has a profound love for our great out-
doors. Those who know him best say he
can often be found at a local dam or
lake with a fishing pole. He also enjoys
long drives in the country and taking
long walks and hikes.
I am proud to honor Father Tobin as
this week’s Montanan of the Week. His
devotion to his Catholic faith and his
community is exemplary of the Mon-
tana spirit.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message from the President of the
United States was communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
In executive session the Presiding Of-
ficer laid before the Senate a message
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which was referred to the Committee
on Armed Services.
(The message received today is print-
ed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–2156. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and
Sustainment), transmitting, pursuant to
law, the annual Selected Acquisition Reports
(SARs) for the Army Major Defense Acquisi-
tion Programs (MDAPs) (OSS–2019–0850); to
the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2157. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report on the continuation of
the national emergency that was originally
declared in Executive Order 13441 with re-
spect to Lebanon; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2158. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–92, ‘‘Fiscal Year 2020 Budget
Support Act of 2019’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–2159. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–93, ‘‘Firearms Safety Omnibus
Clarification Temporary Amendment Act of
2019’’; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–2160. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–94, ‘‘Closing of a Portion of
South Dakota Avenue, N.E., Adjacent to
Squares 3760 and 3766, S.O. 18–40261, Act of
2019’’; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–2161. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–95, ‘‘Warehousing and Storage
Eminent Domain Authority Act of 2019’’; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–2162. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–96, ‘‘Power Line Under-
grounding Program Certified Business Enter-
prise Utilization Act of 2019’’; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–2163. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–97, ‘‘Children’s Hospital Re-
search and Innovation Campus Phase 1 Tem-
porary Amendment Act of 2019’’; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–2164. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–98, ‘‘St. Elizabeths East Rede-
velopment Support Temporary Amendment
Act of 2019’’; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–2165. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–99, ‘‘Department of Health
Functions Clarification Temporary Amend-
ment Act of 2019’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–2166. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–107, ‘‘Mypheduh Films DBA
Sankofa Video and Books Real Property Tax
Exemption Act of 2019’’; to the Committee on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.026 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5247
July 31, 2019
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–2167. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Regulatory Affairs and
Collaborative Action, Bureau of Indian Af-
fairs, Department of the Interior, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Indian Electric Power Utilities’’
(RIN1076–AF31) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on July 30, 2019; to
the Committee on Indian Affairs.
EC–2168. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Regulatory Affairs and
Collaborative Action, Bureau of Indian Af-
fairs, Department of the Interior, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Civil Penalties Inflation Adjust-
ments; Annual Adjustments’’ (RIN1076–AF40)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 30, 2019; to the Committee on
Indian Affairs.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. BLUNT, from the Committee on
Rules and Administration:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Review of Legis-
lative Activity During the 115th Congress’’
(Rept. No. 116–68).
By Mr. RISCH, from the Committee on
Foreign Relations, with an amendment in
the nature of a substitute:
S. 1441. A bill to impose sanctions with re-
spect to the provision of certain vessels for
the construction of Russian energy export
pipelines, and for other purposes.
By Mr. BARRASSO, from the Committee
on Environment and Public Works, without
amendment:
S. 1992. A bill to amend the FAST Act to
repeal a rescission of funds.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEES
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. INHOFE for the Committee on
Armed Services.
*Air Force nomination of Gen. John E.
Hyten, to be General.
By Mr. GRASSLEY for the Committee on
Finance.
* Travis Greaves, of the District of Colum-
bia, to be a Judge of the United States Tax
Court for a term of fifteen years.
* Brian McGuire, of New York, to be a Dep-
uty Under Secretary of the Treasury.
* Brian Callanan, of New Jersey, to be Gen-
eral Counsel for the Department of the
Treasury.
* Brent James McIntosh, of Michigan, to be
an Under Secretary of the Treasury.
By Mr. HOEVEN for the Committee on In-
dian Affairs.
E. Sequoyah Simermeyer, of Maryland, to
be Chairman of the National Indian Gaming
Commission for the term of three years.
* Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. GARDNER:
S. 2347. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exclude employer con-
tributions to student loan repayment from
income, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Ms. CANTWELL (for herself and
Ms. COLLINS):
S. 2348. A bill to restore administrative law
judges to the competitive service, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2349. A bill to amend the Federal Trade
Commission Act to eliminate the common
carrier exemption for telecommunications
companies; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr.
WYDEN, Ms. HASSAN, and Mr.
MERKLEY):
S. 2350. A bill to prohibit States from
retroactively imposing a sales tax collection
duty on a remote seller, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. COONS (for himself and Mr.
GRAHAM):
S. 2351. A bill to promote human rights and
accountability in Saudi Arabia, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. 2352. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify nondiscrimina-
tion rules to protect older, longer service
participants in retirement plans; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr.
GARDNER, Ms. HASSAN, and Mr. SUL-
LIVAN):
S. 2353. A bill to direct the Administrator
of the Federal Emergency Management
Agency to develop guidance for firefighters
and other emergency response personnel on
best practices to protect them from exposure
to PFAS and to limit and prevent the release
of PFAS into the environment, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. COONS (for himself and Mr.
GARDNER):
S. 2354. A bill to direct the Director of the
National Science Foundation to support re-
search on opioid addiction, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. WARREN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
Ms. HARRIS, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
MURPHY, Mr. COONS, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Ms. STABENOW, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Ms. SMITH, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. UDALL,
Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Ms. CANTWELL, Mrs. MURRAY,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. KAINE, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, and Mr. MENENDEZ):
S. 2355. A bill to eliminate racial, religious,
and other discriminatory profiling by law en-
forcement, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BRAUN (for himself and Ms.
ERNST):
S. 2356. A bill to provide a definition of
navigable waters, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself and Mr.
HAWLEY):
S. 2357. A bill to establish a national goal
and mechanism to achieve a trade-balancing
exchange rate for the United States dollar,
to impose market access charge on certain
purchases of United States assets, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. 2358. A bill to amend the Child Nutrition
Act of 1966 to increase the age of eligibility
for children to receive benefits under the
special supplemental nutrition program for
women, infants, and children, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. 2359. A bill to amend the Food and Nu-
trition Act of 2008 to require consideration of
the assets of a household for broad-based cat-
egorical eligibility for the supplemental nu-
trition assistance program; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Ms.
DUCKWORTH):
S. 2360. A bill to establish an Office of
Emerging Markets within the Small Busi-
ness Administration that will strengthen the
development of small business concerns in
emerging markets, including those owned by
women, minorities, veterans, and those lo-
cated in rural areas, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Small Business and En-
trepreneurship.
By Mr. CARDIN:
S. 2361. A bill to amend the Small Business
Act to increase lending to underserved bor-
rowers through the largest loan program of
the Small Business Administration, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Small
Business and Entrepreneurship.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE:
S. 2362. A bill to establish a process for
United States businesses to obtain exclu-
sions from certain duties imposed under sec-
tion 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 and section
232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 2363. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to establish a Telecommuni-
cations Workforce Development Advisory
Council within the Federal Communications
Commission, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. COONS, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, and Mr. MURPHY):
S. 2364. A bill to enhance domestic marine
debris response, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr.
MORAN, Mr. TESTER, Mr. ROUNDS, and
Ms. SMITH):
S. 2365. A bill to amend the Indian Health
Care Improvement Act to authorize urban
Indian organizations to enter into arrange-
ments for the sharing of medical services and
facilities, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Indian Affairs.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. 2366. A bill to streamline the employer
reporting process and strengthen the eligi-
bility verification process for the premium
assistance tax credit and cost-sharing sub-
sidy; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. SMITH (for herself and Mr.
JONES):
S. 2367. A bill to support the preparation
and retention of outstanding educators in all
fields to ensure a bright future for children
and youth in under-resourced and under-
served communities in the United States,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.036 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5248 July 31, 2019
By Mr. COONS (for himself and Ms.
MCSALLY):
S. 2368. A bill to amend the Atomic Energy
Act of 1954 and the Energy Policy Act of 2005
to support licensing and relicensing of cer-
tain nuclear facilities and nuclear energy re-
search, demonstration, and development, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself and Mr.
ROMNEY):
S. 2369. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize the use of grant
amounts awarded under the Veterans Ceme-
tery Grants Program for construction of
fully enclosed committal service shelters in
certain State veterans’ cemeteries, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE:
S. 2370. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to expand personal saving
and retirement savings coverage by enabling
employees not covered by qualifying retire-
ment plans to save for retirement through
automatic IRA arrangements, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Ms. SINEMA, and Mr.
TILLIS):
S. 2371. A bill to amend title 36, United
States Code, to designate the Honor and Re-
member Flag created by Honor and Remem-
ber Inc., as an official symbol to recognize
and honor members of the Armed Forces who
died in service to the United States, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
SULLIVAN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. COONS, Mr.
MURPHY, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2372. A bill to enhance global engage-
ment to combat marine debris, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Ms. SMITH (for herself, Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI, Mr. JONES, and Mrs. CAPITO):
S. 2373. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to improve obstetric care in
rural areas; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself and Mr.
PAUL):
S. 2374. A bill to amend the Endangered
Species Act of 1973 to include a prohibition
on the listing of a living nonnative species as
a threatened species or an endangered spe-
cies, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
By Mr. MANCHIN:
S. 2375. A bill to amend title 40, United
States Code, to relocate the headquarters of
the Appalachian Regional Commission, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
By Mr. LEAHY (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, and Mr. DURBIN):
S. 2376. A bill to increase public safety by
punishing and deterring firearms trafficking;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. INHOFE:
S. 2377. A bill to apply the Medicaid asset
verification program to all applicants for,
and recipients of, medical assistance in all
States and territories, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
LEE):
S. 2378. A bill to require reductions in the
direct cost of Federal regulations that are
proportional to the amount of increases in
the debt ceiling; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. GRASSLEY, Ms. HASSAN,
and Mr. ROBERTS):
S. 2379. A bill to amend title XIX of the So-
cial Security Act to clarify the authority of
State Medicaid fraud and abuse control units
to investigate and prosecute cases of Med-
icaid patient abuse and neglect in any set-
ting, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Ms. HIRONO:
S. 2380. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Energy to establish a grant program for the
transformation of the electric grid, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and Mr.
CRAMER):
S. 2381. A bill to require review by the Gov-
ernment Accountability Office of screening
protocols of the Transportation Security Ad-
ministration relating to breast milk and for-
mula, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
SANDERS, Ms. SMITH, and Ms. HAR-
RIS):
S. 2382. A bill to amend the Energy Policy
and Conservation Act to establish a program
to provide loans to implement cost-effective
energy efficiency measures, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO:
S. 2383. A bill to establish minimum stand-
ards of disclosure by franchises whose
franchisees use loans guaranteed by the
Small Business Administration; to the Com-
mittee on Small Business and Entrepreneur-
ship.
By Ms. HIRONO (for herself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. MARKEY, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms.
HARRIS, Mr. CARPER, and Mr.
CARDIN):
S. 2384. A bill to promote botanical re-
search and botanical sciences capacity, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. WYDEN:
S. 2385. A bill to amend the Rural Elec-
trification Act of 1936 to improve access to
broadband telecommunications services in
rural areas, including by encouraging the
provision of broadband loans and grants to
increase broadband service in emerging har-
bor projects, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2386. A bill to impose sanctions with re-
spect to surveillance in the Xinjiang Uygur
Autonomous Region of the People’s Republic
of China, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself and
Mr. SCOTT of Florida):
S. 2387. A bill establish a process by which
reasonable drug prices may be determined,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr.
MORAN):
S. 2388. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to permit the postpone-
ment of certain deadlines by reason of sig-
nificant fires; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. SCHUMER (for Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND (for herself, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
and Mr. BOOKER)):
S. 2389. A bill to provide access to counsel
for children and other vulnerable popu-
lations; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. HARRIS, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. KAINE, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. SANDERS, and Mr. SCHATZ):
S. 2390. A bill to prohibit the imposition of
the death penalty for any violation of Fed-
eral law, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BROWN:
S. 2391. A bill to amend the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 to impose requirements
relating to the purchase of certain equity se-
curities by issuers, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
By Mr. CRAMER (for himself and Ms.
ROSEN):
S. 2392. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for the cir-
cumstances under which the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs shall provide reimburse-
ment for emergency ambulance services; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself, Mr.
MANCHIN, and Mr. BOOKER):
S. 2393. A bill to promote a 21st century en-
ergy workforce, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. VAN HOLLEN (for himself and
Mr. YOUNG):
S. 2394. A bill to require certain reports
and briefings to Congress relating to the ex-
piration of the New START Treaty, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
By Mr. MARKEY:
S. 2395. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Education to make grants to support early
college high schools and dual or concurrent
enrollment programs; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. HARRIS,
Ms. WARREN, and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 2396. A bill to protect United States citi-
zens and residents from unlawful profiling,
arrest, and detention and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Mr.
COONS):
S. 2397. A bill to authorize the Attorney
General to make grants to State and Tribal
courts in order to allow the electronic serv-
ice of certain court orders, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
S. 2398. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to ensure privacy
with respect to voter information; to the
Committee on Rules and Administration.
By Ms. MURKOWSKI:
S. 2399. A bill to amend the Energy Policy
Act of 2005 to improve State loan eligibility
for projects for innovative technology; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. DURBIN:
S. 2400. A bill to promote cannabis re-
search, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. KENNEDY:
S. 2401. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit the importation or
transportation of child sex dolls, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. WYDEN:
S. 2402. A bill to enhance the safety of
Class 3 flammable liquid transportation by
rail, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
SANDERS, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms.
SMITH, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. HEIN-
RICH, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, and Mrs. MUR-
RAY):
S. 2403. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
Transportation to provide loans for the ac-
quisition of electric buses and related infra-
structure; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:58 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.048 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5249
July 31, 2019
By Mr. SCHUMER (for Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND (for herself, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Ms. HARRIS, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and
Ms. KLOBUCHAR)):
S. 2404. A bill to establish an expansive in-
frastructure program to create local jobs and
raise the quality of life in every community,
to launch middle class career pathways in in-
frastructure, and to invest in high quality
American jobs, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
BOOKER, Ms. WARREN, Mr. BROWN,
and Mrs. GILLIBRAND):
S. 2405. A bill to establish additional pro-
tections and disclosures for students and co-
signers with respect to student loans, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. JONES, and
Ms. MURKOWSKI):
S. 2406. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to establish the National Health
Service Corps Rural Provider Loan Repay-
ment Program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. DAINES:
S. 2407. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide criminal penalties
for individuals acting as agents or attorneys
for the preparation, presentation, or prosecu-
tion of a claim under a law administered by
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs without
being recognized by the Secretary for such
purposes, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself and
Mr. CRAMER):
S. 2408. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to establish a national tele-
health program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. GRAHAM (for himself and Mr.
MANCHIN):
S. 2409. A bill to authorize the President to
take certain actions relating to reciprocal
trade, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mrs. HYDE–SMITH (for herself and
Mr. WICKER):
S. 2410. A bill to amend the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act to modify the require-
ments for permits for dredged or fill mate-
rial, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself and
Ms. MURKOWSKI):
S. 2411. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to establish a rural health cen-
ter innovation awards program and a rural
health department enhancement program,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr.
WYDEN, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. CARDIN,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
SCHUMER, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. REED, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. BROWN, Ms. HIRONO,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. SANDERS, Mr.
TESTER, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. HASSAN, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. UDALL, Ms. CANT-
WELL, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. MERKLEY,
Ms. ROSEN, Mr. CASEY, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. KAINE, Mr. CARPER, Mr. DURBIN,
Mr. COONS, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. PETERS, Mr. BENNET, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. KING, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. HEIN-
RICH, Ms. STABENOW, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
JONES, Mr. MANCHIN, and Ms.
SINEMA):
S.J. Res. 52. A joint resolution providing
for congressional disapproval under chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule
submitted by the Secretary of the Treasury
and the Secretary of Health and Human
Services relating to ‘‘State Relief and Em-
powerment Waivers’’; to the Committee on
Finance.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. REED (for himself, Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI, Mr. ISAKSON, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
TILLIS, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN, Ms. HIRONO, Mrs. BLACKBURN,
Mr. CASEY, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. KING,
Ms. ROSEN, Mr. MCCONNELL, Mr.
GARDNER, and Mr. MANCHIN):
S. Res. 294. A resolution designating Au-
gust 16, 2019, as ‘‘National Airborne Day’’;
considered and agreed to.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr. CAR-
PER, and Ms. WARREN):
S. Res. 295. A resolution designating the
month of September 2019 as ‘‘Campus Fire
Safety Month’’; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Ms.
COLLINS, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. REED,
Mr. DURBIN, Mr. JONES, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr.
COONS, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. BENNET, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. CASEY, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. BROWN, Ms. ROSEN, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
CARDIN, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. MARKEY,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms.
WARREN, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. WAR-
NER, Ms. SINEMA, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. PETERS, Mr. KAINE, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. CARPER, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. SCHUMER,
and Ms. MURKOWSKI):
S. Res. 296. A resolution congratulating the
United States Women’s National Soccer
Team for winning the 2019 FIFA Women’s
World Cup; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. CRUZ, and Mr.
KAINE):
S. Res. 297. A resolution commending the
Inter-American Foundation (IAF) on the oc-
casion of its 50th anniversary for its signifi-
cant accomplishments and contributions to
the economic and social development of the
Americas; to the Committee on Foreign Re-
lations.
By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. CRUZ, Mr.
WICKER, Mr. COTTON, Mr. BLUNT, Mr.
JOHNSON, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. CRAMER,
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr.
SULLIVAN, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
BRAUN, Mrs. BLACKBURN, and Mr.
CORNYN):
S. Res. 298. A resolution concurring with
the decision to withdraw the United States
from the INF Treaty, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. BROWN, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
CARDIN, and Mr. COONS):
S. Res. 299. A resolution designating the
first week in August 2019 as ‘‘World
Breastfeeding Week’’, and designating Au-
gust 2019 as ‘‘National Breastfeeding
Month’’; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. CARDIN, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. KING, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Ms. HASSAN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, and Ms. KLOBUCHAR):
S. Res. 300. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of National Public Health
Week; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. BRAUN (for himself and Mr.
YOUNG):
S. Res. 301. A resolution honoring the 50th
anniversary of the return of the Indiana
Rangers; considered and agreed to.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr.
LANKFORD, Ms. HASSAN, Mrs. CAPITO,
Mr. JONES, Mr. BRAUN, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
BROWN, and Ms. ROSEN):
S. Res. 302. A resolution designating Sep-
tember 2019 as ‘‘National Child Awareness
Month’’ to promote awareness of charities
that benefit children and youth-serving orga-
nizations throughout the United States, and
recognizing the efforts made by those char-
ities and organizations on behalf of children
and youth as critical contributions to the fu-
ture of the United States; considered and
agreed to.
By Mr. CRAMER (for himself, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mr. DAINES,
Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. CAS-
SIDY, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. CRUZ, Mr.
ROBERTS, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. HOEVEN, Ms.
COLLINS, Ms. ERNST, Mr. MORAN, Mr.
ROUNDS, Mr. WICKER, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. RISCH, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mrs. BLACK-
BURN, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. BARRASSO,
Mr. SCOTT of Florida, Mr. GARDNER,
Mr. TOOMEY, Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. COONS, Mr. SCHUMER, Mr.
MURPHY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. JONES, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mr. BENNET, Mr. BOOKER, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. TESTER, Ms. ROSEN, and
Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. Con. Res. 23. A concurrent resolution
honoring the 75th Anniversary of the Battle
of the Bulge fought during World War II, rec-
ognizing the valiant efforts of the Allied
Forces in December 1944, and remembering
those who made the ultimate sacrifice, all of
which contributed to the Allied victory in
the European Theater; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
By Mr. ROBERTS (for himself and Ms.
STABENOW):
S. Con. Res. 24. A concurrent resolution
recognizing the 50th anniversary of the Food
and Nutrition Service of the Department of
Agriculture; considered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 117
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
names of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) and the Senator from
Michigan (Ms. STABENOW) were added
as cosponsors of S. 117, a bill to pro-
hibit discrimination against individ-
uals with disabilities who need long-
term services and supports, and for
other purposes.
S. 131
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
131, a bill to amend title XIX of the So-
cial Security Act to prohibit Federal
Medicaid funding for the administra-
tive costs of providing health benefits
to individuals who are unauthorized
immigrants.
S. 177
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.051 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5250 July 31, 2019
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 177, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 and the Small
Business Act to expand the availability
of employee stock ownership plans in S
corporations, and for other purposes.
S. 296
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII of
the Social Security Act to ensure more
timely access to home health services
for Medicare beneficiaries under the
Medicare program.
S. 340
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) and the Senator
from New York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND) were
added as cosponsors of S. 340, a bill to
promote competition in the market for
drugs and biological products by facili-
tating the timely entry of lower-cost
generic and biosimilar versions of
those drugs and biological products.
S. 427
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) and the Senator from
Rhode Island (Mr. WHITEHOUSE) were
added as cosponsors of S. 427, a bill to
amend the Public Health Service Act
to enhance activities of the National
Institutes of Health with respect to re-
search on autism spectrum disorder
and enhance programs relating to au-
tism, and for other purposes.
S. 430
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 430, a bill to extend the Secure
Rural Schools and Community Self-De-
termination Act of 2000.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 433, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to improve
home health payment reforms under
the Medicare program.
S. 460
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 460, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the ex-
clusion for employer-provided edu-
cation assistance to employer pay-
ments of student loans.
S. 518
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 518, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide for Medicare coverage of cer-
tain lymphedema compression treat-
ment items as items of durable medical
equipment.
S. 560
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) and the Senator from
Montana (Mr. DAINES) were added as
cosponsors of S. 560, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act, the Em-
ployee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974, and the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to require that group and
individual health insurance coverage
and group health plans provide cov-
erage for treatment of a congenital
anomaly or birth defect.
S. 576
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
576, a bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for a presump-
tion of herbicide exposure for certain
veterans who served in Korea, and for
other purposes.
S. 633
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) and the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 633, a bill to
award a Congressional Gold Medal to
the members of the Women’s Army
Corps who were assigned to the 6888th
Central Postal Directory Battalion,
known as the ‘‘Six Triple Eight’’.
S. 636
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 636, a bill to designate
Venezuela under section 244 of the Im-
migration and Nationality Act to per-
mit nationals of Venezuela to be eligi-
ble for temporary protected status
under such section.
S. 638
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 638, a bill to require the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to designate per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances as haz-
ardous substances under the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, Liability Act of 1980,
and for other purposes.
S. 803
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 803, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to re-
store incentives for investments in
qualified improvement property.
S. 839
At the request of Mr. KAINE, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
839, a bill to extend Federal Pell Grant
eligibility of certain short-term pro-
grams.
S. 944
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 944, a bill to enhance the
security operations of the Transpor-
tation Security Administration and
the stability of the transportation se-
curity workforce by applying a unified
personnel system under title 5, United
States Code, to employees of the
Transportation Security Administra-
tion who are responsible for screening
passengers and property, and for other
purposes.
S. 996
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Illinois
(Mr. DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 996, a bill to modify the microloan
program of the Small Business Admin-
istration, and for other purposes.
S. 997
At the request of Mr. MORAN, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
997, a bill to recognize and honor the
service of individuals who served in the
United States Cadet Nurse Corps dur-
ing World War II, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1039
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1039, a bill to limit the use of
funds for kinetic military operations in
or against Iran.
S. 1071
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) and the Senator from Wash-
ington (Ms. CANTWELL) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1071, a bill to support
empowerment, economic security, and
educational opportunities for adoles-
cent girls around the world, and for
other purposes.
S. 1094
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING), the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO), the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) and the Sen-
ator from Vermont (Mr. LEAHY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1094, a bill to
amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to modify limitations on the credit
for plug-in electric drive motor vehi-
cles, and for other purposes.
S. 1102
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1102, a bill to promote security and en-
ergy partnerships in the Eastern Medi-
terranean, and for other purposes.
S. 1107
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) and the Senator
from Arizona (Ms. MCSALLY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1107, a bill to
require a review of women and lung
cancer, and for other purposes.
S. 1134
At the request of Mr. CRAMER, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1134, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for an
investment tax credit related to the
production of electricity from nuclear
energy.
S. 1148
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.041 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5251
July 31, 2019
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1148, a bill to amend title 49,
United States Code, to require the Ad-
ministrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration to give preferential
consideration to individuals who have
successfully completed air traffic con-
troller training and veterans when hir-
ing air traffic control specialists.
S. 1383
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1383, a bill to amend the
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act to
provide a guarantee of residency for
registration of businesses of spouses of
members of the uniformed services, to
improve occupational license port-
ability for military spouses through
interstate compacts, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1522
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1522, a bill to improve broadband data
collection, mapping, and validation to
support the effective deployment of
broadband services to all areas of the
United States, and for other purposes.
S. 1527
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, her
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
1527, a bill to require the Secretary of
Transportation to conduct, and submit
to Congress a report describing the re-
sults of, an assessment of the total
amount of nonhighway recreational
fuel taxes received by the Secretary of
the Treasury and transferred to the
Highway Trust Fund, and for other
purposes.
At the request of Mr. COONS, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
1527, supra.
S. 1721
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1721, a bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit gay and trans
panic defenses.
S. 1750
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
1750, a bill to establish the Clean
School Bus Grant Program, and for
other purposes.
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
1750, supra.
S. 1782
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1782, a bill to add suicide prevention re-
sources to school identification cards.
S. 1830
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1830, a bill to enhance the security of
the United States and its allies, and for
other purposes.
S. 1881
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
names of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) and the Senator from In-
diana (Mr. BRAUN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1881, a bill to provide
PreCheck to certain severely injured or
disabled veterans, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1915
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1915, a bill to require the record-
ing and reporting of communications
between the Department of Justice and
the White House relating to civil and
criminal investigations, and for other
purposes.
S. 1918
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1918, a bill to amend the Richard
B. Russell National School Lunch Act
to require alternative options for sum-
mer food service program delivery.
S. 1953
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
ISAKSON) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1953, a bill to amend the Commodity
Exchange Act to extend the jurisdic-
tion of the Commodity Futures Trad-
ing Commission to include the setting
of reference prices for aluminum pre-
miums, and for other purposes.
S. 2024
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) and the Senator from
Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2024, a bill to
amend the Higher Education Act of
1965 to improve the American History
for Freedom grant program.
S. 2026
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2026, a bill to amend the Richard
B. Russell National School Lunch Act
to reauthorize the farm to school pro-
gram, and for other purposes.
S. 2061
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2061, a bill to amend the
United States Housing Act of 1937 and
title 38, United States Code, to expand
eligibility for the HUD–VASH program,
to direct the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to submit annual reports to the
Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the
Senate and House of Representatives
regarding homeless veterans, and for
other purposes.
S. 2103
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2103, a bill to improve access to
affordable insulin.
S. 2185
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2185, a bill to provide labor stand-
ards for certain energy jobs, and for
other purposes.
S. 2237
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, her
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
2237, a bill to authorize the Department
of Justice and the Federal Trade Com-
mission to seek civil monetary pen-
alties to deter violations of section 2 of
the Sherman Act, and for other pur-
poses.
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
2237, supra.
S. 2240
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, her
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
2240, a bill to promote digital citizen-
ship and media literacy.
S. 2250
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2250, a bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to establish State
and Indian tribe grants for community
colleges and grants for Historically
Black Colleges and Universities, Tribal
Colleges and Universities, and Minor-
ity-Serving Institutions, and for other
purposes.
S. 2257
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2257, a bill to reform the financing
of Senate elections, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2260
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) and the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. MURPHY) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2260, a bill to provide
for the improvement of domestic infra-
structure in order to prevent marine
debris, and for other purposes.
S. 2308
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2308, a bill to intensify stem cell re-
search showing evidence of substantial
clinical benefit to patients, and for
other purposes.
S.J. RES. 50
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S.J. Res. 50, a joint resolution pro-
viding for congressional disapproval
under chapter 8 of title 5, United
States Code, of the rule submitted by
the Internal Revenue Service, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, relating to
‘‘Contributions in Exchange for State
or Local Tax Credits’’.
S. RES. 252
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) and the Senator from Lou-
isiana (Mr. KENNEDY) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 252, a resolution
designating September 2019 as National
Democracy Month as a time to reflect
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:02 Oct 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JULY\S31JY9.REC S31JY9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5252 July 31, 2019
on the contributions of the system of
government of the United States to a
more free and stable world.
S. RES. 274
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 274, a resolution expressing soli-
darity with Falun Gong practitioners
who have lost lives, freedoms, and
other rights for adhering to their be-
liefs and practices, and condemning the
practice of non-consenting organ har-
vesting, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 277
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. BURR) and the Senator from
Arkansas (Mr. COTTON) were added as
cosponsors of S. Res. 277, a resolution
remembering the 25th Anniversary of
the bombing of the Argentine Israelite
Mutual Association (AMIA) Jewish
Community Center in Buenos Aires,
Argentina, and recommitting to efforts
to uphold justice for the 85 victims of
the attacks.
S. RES. 285
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 285, a resolution des-
ignating September 2019 as ‘‘School
Bus Safety Month’’.
S. RES. 289
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 289, a resolution ex-
pressing the sense of the Senate that
socialism poses a significant threat to
freedom, liberty, and economic pros-
perity.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2349. A bill to amend the Federal
Trade Commission Act to eliminate
the common carrier exemption for tele-
communications companies; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today to speak about the introduc-
tion of the Protection from
Robocalling Act of 2019. This bill would
address the problem of illegal robocalls
and spam calls. I thank Senators KLO-
BUCHAR and BLUMENTHAL for cospon-
soring this legislation.
Last year, I introduced this legisla-
tion to address the nuisance of illegal
robocalling.
Since then, these calls have become
even more prevalent. For example, last
month alone, an estimated 4.7 billion
robocalls were placed in the United
States—nearly one billion more than
the year prior. That amounts to 153
million calls per day, or nearly 2,000
robocalls placed each second. Some of
these calls are organized scams.
In one case, one robocall company
called people offering to help lower
their credit card interest rates. In-
stead, it tricked them into giving up
sensitive personal information, includ-
ing their Social Security numbers.
Another company dialed millions of
phone numbers on the Do Not Call reg-
istry trying to find new customers for
a third-party service, contacting a sin-
gle number more than 1,000 times in
the same year. Robocall companies are
also engaged in credit card and loan
scams.
What’s worse, robocalling is now en-
dangering the health and safety of
Americans by tying up emergency serv-
ice lines. Tufts Medical Center in Bos-
ton received more than 4,500 illegal
robocalls in the span of two hours last
April. Each time the medical staff had
to answer one of those robocalls could
have been an instance when someone
who needed life-saving help was unable
to get through to a medical profes-
sional.
One reason the problem is increasing
is because the cost of making and de-
ploying these calls is decreasing. Ad-
vances in software make it possible for
one person to send out thousands of
identical prerecorded messages every
second, more quickly and more cheaply
than employing scores of human tele-
marketing agents.
In addition, technology is making it
even easier for illegal robocallers to
hide their true identity and location.
Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP)
technology enables robocallers to
launch their call campaigns from any-
where in the world. And new tech-
nology allows illegal robocallers to dis-
guise where they are actually calling
from. This technique, known as ‘‘spoof-
ing,’’ tricks consumers into thinking
they are receiving a local call.
The Federal Trade Commission now
receives nearly 10,000 robocall com-
plaints every day. With its broad con-
sumer protection authority, the Com-
mission plays a critical role in stop-
ping illegal robocalling. But due to an
historic exemption, the Commission
has no enforcement authority over
telecoms.
When the FTC Act was enacted in
1914, this exemption was put in place
because telecoms were monopolies and
subject to heavy regulation so FTC en-
forcement was not needed. In the dec-
ades that followed, that regulatory
oversight was rolled back, while the ex-
emption remained in place. This cre-
ated an uneven playing field. A set of
federal rules and regulations pro-
tecting consumers applied to most in-
dustries, but not all.
We must give the Commission the au-
thority they need to pursue complete
relief for American consumers. The
Protection from Robocalling Act of
2019 removes telecoms from the com-
mon carrier exemption in the law. By
eliminating this special exemption,
telecoms will now have to abide by the
same consumer protection standards in
areas such as privacy and advertising
that apply to other sectors already
subject to the FTC’s jurisdiction.
It’s a matter of fairness, as well as
common sense. There’s no reason that
consumer data held by a broadband
service should have more protection
under the law than the same data held
by their wireless service.
Robocalls are a problem for everyone
with a cell phone. It is a problem that
is only going to get worse. And we
can’t expect our law enforcement agen-
cies to keep up with today’s tech-
nologies if their hands are tied.
We need to be smarter about how we
approach this problem. Going after the
robocallers and installing call blocking
technology on phones is fine; but we
need to strike at the systems that they
use to perpetrate their scams if we
want to see a real difference.
I urge my colleagues to join us in
supporting this legislation that will
help consumers fight back against ille-
gal robocalling.
I yield the floor.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and
Ms. DUCKWORTH):
S. 2360. A bill to establish an Office of
Emerging Markets within the Small
Business Administration that will
strengthen the development of small
business concerns in emerging mar-
kets, including those owned by women,
minorities, veterans, and those located
in rural areas, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, today I
am introducing the Unlocking Oppor-
tunities in Emerging Markets Act,
which establishes an Office of Emerg-
ing Markets (OEM) within the Small
Business Administration’s (SBA) Office
of Capital Access to ensure that SBA’s
access to capital initiatives address the
specific needs of entrepreneurs in un-
derserved domestic emerging markets.
Capital is the lifeblood of small busi-
nesses, but for women, minorities, vet-
erans and other underserved entre-
preneurs, access to capital remains the
key roadblock to owning and operating
a successful business.
The challenges that underserved en-
trepreneurs face are historic and perva-
sive with minority and women entre-
preneurs, for example, having less
wealth from which to fund new busi-
nesses.
Black families have $17,150 in wealth
and Hispanic families have $20,720 in
wealth, while White families have
$171,000 in wealth. Similarly, women
have $3 in wealth for every $10 men
have.
These historical barriers are com-
pounded by systemic inequality in the
capital markets. Minority-owned busi-
ness are two to three times more likely
to be denied credit; more likely to
avoid applying for loans, based on the
belief that they will be turned down;
and more likely to receive smaller
loans and pay higher interest rates on
the loans that they do receive. Rural
businesses owners often face an uphill
battle to secure funding for their
startups. And women are significantly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.045 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5253
July 31, 2019
less likely than men to be approved for
a business loan and are more likely to
experience funding gaps.
SBA was created to solve these very
problems, but instead of being a solu-
tion, lending patterns in the agency’s
largest loan programs mirror these
trends. During Fiscal Year 2018, only
4.5 percent of all loans approved by
SBA’s highest volume loan program—
7(a)—went to Black entrepreneurs. An-
other 8.5 percent went to Hispanic en-
trepreneurs, while 59 percent went to
white borrowers.
Despite these challenges, SBA does
not have the coordinated effort re-
quired to address them. In multiple
hearings in the Small Business Com-
mittee, SBA has not been able to ex-
plain how they are addressing these ur-
gent issues. By creating OEM, and em-
powering a Senior Executive Service
level director to lead the office, we in
Congress can ensure that SBA is giving
the problems that underserved entre-
preneurs face the attention and re-
sources they deserve.
Eliminating disparities in the capital
markets for underserved business own-
ers is not just the right thing to do, it
will spur growth in the American econ-
omy.
In the years since the Great Reces-
sion, minority-owned small businesses
have been driving the growth of small
business formation in spite of the sig-
nificant headwinds they face. Just
imagine what they could do if SBA was
laser focused on removing some of
those headwinds. SBA has helped level
the playing field for underserved com-
munities in government contracting,
and entrepreneurial development, but
access to capital is the only major area
where there is no office specific to the
needs of underserved communities.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
support of this critical piece of legisla-
tion, so SBA can begin making the con-
certed effort required to help more un-
derserved entrepreneurs overcome bar-
riers, start successful businesses, and
create jobs.
By Mr. CARDIN:
S. 2361. A bill to amend the Small
Business Act to increase lending to un-
derserved borrowers through the larg-
est loan program of the Small Business
Administration, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Small Busi-
ness and Entrepreneurship.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, today I
am introducing the Closing the Credit
Gap Act to make the Small Business
Administration’s (SBA) Community
Advantage program permanent.
SBA created Community Advantage
in 2011 to provide capital and support
to small businesses that have been his-
torically underserved by SBA’s highest
volume loan program, 7(a).
Community Advantage allows non-
profit mission lenders like SBA micro-
lenders, Community Development Fi-
nancial Institutions (CDFI) and SBA
504 lenders to make 7(a) loans of up to
$250,000 to small businesses.
The program has shown year after
year that it is more capable of getting
capital into the hands of minority,
women and veteran entrepreneurs than
the 7(a)program. During Fiscal Year
2018, the most recent year for which
complete data is available, only 4.5 per-
cent of 7(a) approvals went to Black
business owners compared to 12 percent
of Community Advantage approvals; 9
percent of 7(a) approvals went to His-
panic borrowers compared to 17 percent
in the Community Advantage program;
women-owned businesses received only
18 percent of 7(a) approvals while re-
ceiving 30 percent of all Community
Advantage approvals; and veterans,
who only received 4 percent of 7(a) ap-
provals, received 10 percent of approv-
als in the Community Advantage pro-
gram.
Capital is the lifeblood of small busi-
nesses, so for many women, minority,
veteran and other underserved entre-
preneurs, Community Advantage is a
lifeline, because the program fills a gap
in traditional credit markets.
Minority-owned business are two to
three times more likely to be denied
credit; more likely to avoid applying
for loans, based on the belief that they
will be turned down; and more likely to
receive smaller loans and pay higher
interest rates on the loans that they do
receive. Rural businesses owners often
face an uphill battle to secure funding
for their startups. And women are sig-
nificantly less likely than men to be
approved for a business loan and are
more likely to experience funding gaps.
My bill will make this vital program
a permanent loan product administered
by SBA, and it will allow SBA to lift
the cap up to $350,000 from $250,000 to
help borrowers in more expensive re-
gions and industries, as well as victims
of abusive loan products.
My home State of Maryland has the
highest concentration of minority- and
women-owned businesses in the coun-
try. That designation makes me proud,
but it also makes me think of the
countless entrepreneurs whose dreams
of business ownership or growth re-
main unfulfilled because they could
not get financing.
If we pass the Closing the Credit Gap
Act, we can empower more entre-
preneurs who have the ideas but not
the networks or capital needed to start
and grow their businesses and create
jobs.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
LEAHY, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. KAINE, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. SANDERS, and
Mr. SCHATZ):
S. 2390. A bill to prohibit the imposi-
tion of the death penalty for any viola-
tion of Federal law, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2390
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. PROHIBITION ON IMPOSITION OF
DEATH SENTENCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, no person may be sen-
tenced to death or put to death on or after
the date of enactment of this Act for any
violation of Federal law.
(b) PERSONS SENTENCED BEFORE DATE OF
ENACTMENT.—Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, any person sentenced to
death before the date of enactment of this
Act for any violation of Federal law shall be
resentenced.
By Mr. DURBIN:
S. 2400. A bill to promote cannabis re-
search, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2400
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Expanding
Cannabis Research and Information Act’’.
SEC. 2. CANNABIS RESEARCH AT THE DEPART-
MENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES.
(a) NATIONAL CANNABIS RESEARCH AGEN-
DA.—Part B of title IV of the Public Health
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 284 et seq.) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 409K. NATIONAL CANNABIS RESEARCH
AGENDA.
‘‘Not later than 1 year after the date of en-
actment of the Expanding Cannabis Research
and Information Act, the Director of NIH, in
collaboration with the Director of the Cen-
ters for Disease Control and Prevention and
the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health
and Substance Use, shall develop a national
cannabis research agenda that addresses key
questions and gaps in evidence, including
with respect to each of the following:
‘‘(1) The efficacy of cannabis in providing
therapeutic benefits for certain priority dis-
eases or conditions, which may include epi-
lepsy, multiple sclerosis-related spasticity,
chemotherapy-induced pain and discomfort,
using cannabis as an alternative to opioid
analgesics for acute or chronic pain, sleep
apnea, Tourette syndrome, anxiety, post-
traumatic stress disorder, and any other dis-
ease or condition determined to be appro-
priate and of importance by the Director.
‘‘(2) The effect of cannabis on at-risk popu-
lations, including children, older individuals,
and pregnant or breast-feeding women.
‘‘(3) The long-term effects of cannabis use,
including dose-response relationship and the
connection between cannabis use and behav-
ioral health.
‘‘(4) The clinically appropriate modes of
delivery of cannabis.
‘‘(5) Public safety considerations related to
cannabis, including—
‘‘(A) variation in the potency of cannabis
products;
‘‘(B) youth access to and use of cannabis,
including marketing, packaging, edible for-
mulations, and flavor options that target
youth;
‘‘(C) risk factors for cannabis misuse;
‘‘(D) impaired driving related to cannabis
use; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.054 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5254 July 31, 2019
‘‘(E) accidental ingestion of cannabis.’’.
(b) SURVEILLANCE ACTIVITIES.—Part A of
title III of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 241 et seq.) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 310B. SURVEILLANCE ACTIVITIES ON CAN-
NABIS USE.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, acting
through the Director of the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention, in collabora-
tion with the Assistant Secretary for Mental
Health and Substance Use, the Adminis-
trator of the Centers for Medicare & Med-
icaid Services, and the Director of the Agen-
cy for Healthcare Research and Quality,
shall carry out surveillance activities to col-
lect population-wide data on cannabis use.
‘‘(b) PERMISSIBLE ACTIVITIES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out activi-
ties under this section, the Secretary may
collect, as appropriate, with respect to can-
nabis use—
‘‘(A) data on—
‘‘(i) health outcomes, including biological
data;
‘‘(ii) health care utilization, which shall in-
clude hospitalizations and utilization of
emergency departments related to consump-
tion of cannabis, including among youth;
‘‘(iii) demographic factors associated with
cannabis use;
‘‘(iv) the variety of products and delivery
modes used; and
‘‘(v) other relevant health information to
improve the understanding of cannabis use
in all age groups and sub-populations; and
‘‘(B) data through public health surveil-
lance systems, surveys, questionnaires, and
databases of health care records, including,
as appropriate, the Behavioral Risk Factor
Surveillance System, the Youth Risk Behav-
ioral Surveillance System, the Monitoring
the Future health survey, the National Sur-
vey on Drug Use and Health, or the
Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project (or
any successor surveys).
‘‘(2) PRIVACY.—Any data collected under
paragraph (1) shall be collected in manner
that protects personal privacy to the extent,
at a minimum, that is required under appli-
cable Federal and State law.’’.
SEC. 3. RESCHEDULING OF MARIHUANA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (c) of schedule
I of section 202(c) of the Controlled Sub-
stances Act (21 U.S.C. 812(c)) is amended by
striking paragraph (10).
(b) SCHEDULE III.—Schedule III of section
202(c) of the Controlled Substances Act (21
U.S.C. 812(c)) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(f) Marihuana.’’.
SEC. 4. CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE IN CANNABIS
RESEARCH.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Part B of title IV of the
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 284 et
seq.), as amended by section 2(a), is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 409L. CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE IN CAN-
NABIS RESEARCH.
‘‘(a) DESIGNATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of NIH
shall designate institutions of higher edu-
cation as Centers of Excellence in Cannabis
Research for the purpose of interdisciplinary
research related to cannabis and other bio-
medical, behavioral, and social issues related
to cannabis. No institution of higher edu-
cation may be designated as a Center unless
an application therefor has been submitted
to, and approved by, the Director of NIH.
Such an application shall be submitted in
such manner and contain such information
as the Director of NIH may reasonably re-
quire. The Director of NIH may not approve
such an application unless—
‘‘(A) the application contains or is sup-
ported by reasonable assurances that—
‘‘(i) at least 1 individual employed by the
applicant—
‘‘(I) is registered under section 303(f) of the
Controlled Substances Act to conduct re-
search with controlled substances in sched-
ule III of section 202(c) of that Act; and
‘‘(II) is an active participant in the can-
nabis research activities of the applicant;
‘‘(ii) the applicant has not had a registra-
tion to conduct research with controlled sub-
stances under section 303 of the Controlled
Substances Act denied, revoked, or sus-
pended under section 304 of that Act;
‘‘(iii) the applicant has the experience, or
capability, to conduct, through biomedical,
behavioral, social, and related disciplines,
long-term research on cannabis and to pro-
vide coordination of such research among
such disciplines;
‘‘(iv) the applicant has available to it suffi-
cient personnel and facilities (including lab-
oratory, reference, storage, security, and
data analysis facilities) to carry out the re-
search plan required under subparagraph (B);
and
‘‘(v) the applicant has the capacity to con-
duct academic courses and train students
and professionals on appropriate research
and knowledge of cannabis; and
‘‘(B) the application contains a detailed 5-
year plan for research relating to cannabis.
‘‘(2) GEOGRAPHIC REPRESENTATION.—The Di-
rector of NIH shall ensure geographic rep-
resentation across the United States in des-
ignating institutions of higher education as
Centers of Excellence in Cannabis Research.
‘‘(3) TERM OF DESIGNATION.—A designation
under this section shall be for a period of 5
years. An institution of higher education
may reapply in accordance with the require-
ments under paragraph (1) for a subsequent
designation under this section.
‘‘(b) CANNABIS RESEARCH.—
‘‘(1) GRANTS OR COOPERATIVE AGREE-
MENTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Director of NIH
may make grants to, or enter into coopera-
tive agreements with, Centers that have
been designated under this section to expand
the current and ongoing interdisciplinary re-
search and clinical trials relating to can-
nabis research.
‘‘(B) USE OF FUNDS.—Amounts made avail-
able under a grant or cooperative agreement
under subparagraph (A) may be used to ad-
dress key questions and gaps in evidence ad-
dressed by the national cannabis research
agenda described in paragraphs (1) through
(5) of section 409K.
‘‘(2) RESEARCH RESULTS.—The Director of
NIH shall promptly disseminate research re-
sults under this subsection to relevant gov-
ernmental, academic, and research entities.
‘‘(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) CANNABIS.—The term ‘cannabis’ has
the meaning given the term ‘marihuana’ in
section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act.
‘‘(2) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—
The term ‘institution of higher education’
has the meaning given the term in section
101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965.’’.
(b) REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.—Section
303(f) of the Controlled Substances Act (21
U.S.C. 823(f)) is amended by adding after the
period at the end the following: ‘‘The Attor-
ney General shall register under this part
practitioners at Centers of Excellence in
Cannabis Research designated under section
409L of the Public Health Service Act to con-
duct research with marihuana. No separate
registration shall be required for each indi-
vidual employed by a Center of Excellence in
Cannabis Research who is conducting re-
search described in subsection (a)(1) of that
section and in accordance with applicable
State and local laws, nor shall separate reg-
istrations be required for distinct research
activities, including research activities re-
lated to distinct constituent compounds of
marihuana or amended protocols. The reg-
istration shall expire on the date on which
the entity is no longer designated as such a
Center of Excellence in Cannabis Research
under that section. A Center of Excellence in
Cannabis Research registered under this part
may cultivate marihuana, including any con-
stituent component of marihuana, to con-
duct research under this part if the Attorney
General has determined that the research to
be conducted is for legitimate scientific re-
search and is consistent with effective con-
trols against diversion. A Center of Excel-
lence in Cannabis Research may contract
with such additional manufacturers of mari-
huana registered under this section to meet
the needs of the Center of Excellence in Can-
nabis Research to the maximum extent per-
missible under international treaties to
which the United States is a signatory and
which govern marihuana. Before entering
into such contract, the Center of Excellence
in Cannabis Research shall submit to the At-
torney General a request to enter into the
contract that includes information to dem-
onstrate the experience or capability of the
contractor to conduct such cultivation and
assurances that the contractor will comply
with the provisions of this Act. Not later
than 60 days after the date on which the re-
quest is submitted, the request shall be
deemed to be approved by the Attorney Gen-
eral, unless the Attorney General determines
that the granting of such request is incon-
sistent with the public interest. A Center of
Excellence in Cannabis Research registered
under this section may purchase or acquire
commercially available marihuana for the
purpose of research described in section
409L(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act in
accordance with the law of the State in
which the transaction occurs. No Federal
funds may be used by the Center of Excel-
lence in Cannabis Research for such purchase
or acquisition.’’.
By Mrs. HYDE–SMITH (for her-
self and Mr. WICKER):
S. 2410. A bill to amend the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act to modify
the requirements for permits for
dredged or fill material, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, in
my maiden floor speech on May 9, I
spoke on behalf of thousands of Mis-
sissippians suffering from consecutive
months of catastrophic flooding in the
South Mississippi Delta.
Today I rise again to speak on behalf
of thousands of Mississippians who are
still suffering from catastrophic flood-
ing, which started in January and con-
tinues to disrupt the lives of residents
in the Mississippi Delta and my State
overall.
Floodwaters must recede before dam-
ages can be fully assessed, but we al-
ready know that more than 600 house-
holds have suffered severe damage,
nearly 400 families have been displaced
since February, and agricultural losses
will likely exceed $800 million. Much of
the necessary infrastructure, including
roads, bridges, and drainage culverts
are beyond repair.
In June, LaTamela Taylor—13 weeks
pregnant—and Darron Wilson died
when their car lost control and sank
into the floodwaters. Something must
be done.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:56 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.060 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5255
July 31, 2019
My colleagues might ask: How could
an area more than 11 times the size of
Washington, DC, remain underwater
for nearly 7 months? How could flood-
waters swamp more than half a million
acres of homes, businesses, highways,
forests, and farmlands spanning six
Mississippi counties for so long?
The answer is quite simple. Similar
to New Orleans, a complex system of
levees and floodgates constructed by
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers pro-
tected the roughly 1,446-square-mile
Yazoo Backwater area in West Central
Mississippi. This levee system protects
the areas when the Mississippi River is
high and the floodgates are closed.
However, these same protections be-
come the problem when the river is
high, floodgates are closed, and excess
rainfall occurs. The interior creeks and
rivers have no way to drain, and the re-
sult is a bathtub-like effect.
Unlike New Orleans and numerous
Federal flood control projects up and
down the Mississippi River, there is no
mechanism to remove the trapped
water from the Yazoo Backwater area.
Aside from evaporation, pumping is the
only viable option for removing vast
amounts of water that have no place to
go.
This year, the Mississippi River re-
mained above flood stage longer than
anytime in recorded history. The flood-
gates to prevent the Mississippi River
from backing up into the Yazoo Back-
water area were closed in January.
Above-average rainfall occurred in the
months thereafter, and here we are
today with a disaster on our hands.
For nearly 7 months, more than a
half million acres of land—866-square-
mile area—has been underwater. Little
attention outside of Mississippi was
paid to the lives lost, the destroyed
homes, or the displaced families.
Roughly, 225,000 acres of agricultural
crops have been destroyed or will go
unplanted this year. Hundreds of thou-
sands of acres of Timberland ruined.
Whitetail deer, black bear, turkey, and
other wildlife are starving to death and
spreading the disease, as you can see
from these pictures. Wetlands have be-
come lakes. Stagnant, contaminated
water continues to threaten human
and environmental health. The list
goes on.
Paul Hartfield, an endangered species
biologist with the U.S. Fish and Wild-
life Service, said: ‘‘This is biblical pro-
portion. Nothing like this has ever
been seen.’’
While he is correct in that the cur-
rent situation in the South Mississippi
Delta is a complete disaster—the worst
backwater flood since 1973—dev-
astating flooding in the area has be-
come almost an annual occurrence.
This year marks the 10th time the
Yazoo Backwater area has flooded
since 2008, each time causing hundreds
of millions of dollars in damages. The
area residents cannot sustain this, and
they certainly do not deserve this.
According to U.S. census data, rough-
ly 35 percent of the residents of the six-
county area live in poverty. The me-
dian household income is $31,187 per
year below the national average. This
perpetual flooding plagues agriculture
production, which has damaged the pri-
mary economic mainstay in this region
and increased unemployment. I fear
what the 2020 census will reveal.
In a 1982 environmental impact state-
ment, the U.S. Army Corps of Engi-
neers stated the following:
Flooding in the Yazoo Area is historic and
will continue as long as pumps are not con-
structed to complete the flood control sys-
tem for the area. The flooding will continue
to damage crops, homes, roads, and other im-
provements in the area project.
In a 2007 Supplemental Environ-
mental Impact Statement, the Corps
stated the following:
The no-action alternative would not elimi-
nate any of the flood damages the area has
historically experienced. Existing Yazoo
Backwater flood duration and frequency
would continue to adversely affect residen-
tial and nonresidential structures. Flooding
would also have adverse impacts on the
standard of living for residents, interrupting
daily practices and travel to work, school,
and church.
The Corps of Engineers was accurate
in its predictions. Mississippians are
living these predictions out in real life,
and they have for years. It is time for
the people of Mississippi to receive the
level of flood protection promised to
them by the Federal Government in
1941. It is time for the Corps of Engi-
neers to complete the last remaining
unconstructed feature of a 77-year
flood control effort—the Yazoo Back-
water pumps.
The people of Mississippi are beyond
ready to see this crisis resolved. They
are, frankly, extremely frustrated with
the Federal Government. More than
17,000 people have signed a petition to
remove an Environmental Protection
Agency 2008 regulatory veto preventing
construction of the pumps. Mississippi
Governor Phil Bryant, the Mississippi
Department of Wildlife, Fisheries, and
Parks, the Mississippi Department of
Agriculture and Commerce, and many
other State leaders and organizations
have been overwhelmingly in their sup-
port and advocacy for the pumps.
I am grateful for this administra-
tion’s responsiveness to Mississippi’s
perpetual flood problems and needs,
and I will continue to work with the
administration, relevant Federal Gov-
ernment agencies and departments to
see this through.
As I continue working to provide
greater predictability and regulatory
certainty for Mississippians and the
American public, I am committed in
my capacity as a U.S. Senator to pro-
posing commonsense reforms to the
laws governing the regulation of our
Nation’s waters and permitting proc-
ess.
For this reason, I, along with the sen-
ior Senator from Mississippi, have in-
troduced the Flood Reduction, Wildlife
Habitat, and Water Quality Improve-
ment Act of 2019. This legislation seeks
to make commonsense reforms to sec-
tion 404 of the Clean Water Act.
Our bill mirrors the directives out-
lined in Executive Order No. 13807
issued by President Donald Trump on
August 24, 2017, and would establish
greater discipline and accountability
in the environmental review and per-
mitting process for infrastructure
projects.
More specifically, it would prohibit
EPA from vetoing a Corps of Engineers
flood control project specifically au-
thorized by Congress. This is a basic
constitutional principle of separation
of powers. Further, upon enactment, it
would immediately nullify any prior
veto determinations made by EPA if
said actions had resulted in severe
flooding and damage to life and prop-
erty.
In closing, the arguments I have
heard in opposition to this project are
not valid. Pumps will save lives, prop-
erty, local infrastructure, wildlife, and
the environment. As we are here going
about our daily lives, enjoying the
comfort of the home we will return to
today after work, these Mississippians
are just trying to get through the next
30 minutes to keep their sanity and
emotions intact. The real-life experi-
ences Mississippians have endured over
time tell the true story.
It is time for the Federal Govern-
ment to make good on its promises. It
is time to construct the pumps.
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I con-
gratulate the junior Senator from Mis-
sissippi, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. I thank her
for her leadership. She took the lead on
this legislation, and I am delighted and
honored to join her in this regard.
If Americans could take a moment, a
few hours, to come to the South Delta
of Mississippi and see for themselves
what Senator HYDE-SMITH is talking
about, they would understand the grav-
ity of this situation.
She mentioned 7 months. If you are
there today, you see dead wildlife
floating on the floodwaters. You see
coffins that had been buried that are
floating on the surface of the flood-
water in this area. There is no prospect
of an income this year on these small
farms and no prospect of a crop this
year from some of the most fertile land
the United States has been blessed
with.
The tragedy of this is that it is en-
tirely preventable. The prevention in-
volves a promise that was made, as the
Senator from Mississippi said, back in
1941 when this country and this Con-
gress collectively adopted the Mis-
sissippi River and Tributaries System.
That system included, up and down the
river, a series of levees and flood-con-
trol structures. It also included a series
of pumps. We are the only State that
still, after this entire time, doesn’t
have our pump that has been promised
to us.
There have been environmental chal-
lenges along the way—unsubstantiated,
I might add. As a matter of fact, the
environment is harmed, wildlife is
harmed when a flood of this magnitude
comes into the area, as graphically
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.046 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5256 July 31, 2019
demonstrated by some of the photo-
graphs the Senator has offered.
She mentioned the bathtub effect.
Let me make sure my colleagues un-
derstand this. When the Mississippi
floods, the Yazoo River backs up into
the delta. As a result, we put down a
floodgate, and that is designed to keep
the flooded Yazoo River from backing
up into this fertile farmland.
We had made a promise—or at least
we thought we had a promise—to peo-
ple with property 87 feet above sea
level that when the floodwater behind
the floodgate reaches 87, we would
start pumping and pump that water
back into the Mississippi River, where
it has a minimal effect. This gives cer-
tainty. We know there is going to be a
flood. People with property 87 feet
above sea level and below know they
are going to be flooded. But the prom-
ise of the pump is that if you have land
that is above 87 feet, you can build a
house there, you can put your business
there, you can plant your crop there,
and you can be certain that you will
get the same protection from flooding
as everybody else up and down the Mis-
sissippi River Tributary System gets.
That is the promise that everybody
else gets but has been foreclosed to us.
So I congratulate the Senator for
thinking of this solution. That is a
piece of legislation that would correct
this problem. Clearly, it would also
help if we simply got the Corps and the
EPA to agree that the decision 10 years
or so ago was made incorrectly and let
us have what the rest of the system
has; that is, a flood-control promise
that gives us certainty that we can
conduct our business, have a home, and
conduct our lives as it was promised.
That is all we are asking for. For 7
months this year and for weeks and
months in previous years, we have been
denied that.
I want to congratulate the Senator
and associate myself with the remarks
of the junior Senator from Mississippi
and thank her for her leadership in
thinking of this particular solution,
which would give us a remedy, but also
say that there are other ways this
could be solved. We deserve the cer-
tainty that everyone else up and down
the Mississippi system now has, and we
deserve to have that promise made to
us back in the 1940s fulfilled even at
this late date.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 294—DESIG-
NATING AUGUST 16, 2019, AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL AIRBORNE DAY’’
Mr. REED (for himself, Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI, Mr. ISAKSON, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. SUL-
LIVAN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms. HIRONO,
Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. CASEY, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. KING, Ms. ROSEN, Mr.
MCCONNELL, Mr. GARDNER, and Mr.
MANCHIN) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 294
Whereas the members of the airborne
forces of the Armed Forces of the United
States have a long and honorable history as
bold and fierce warriors who, for the na-
tional security of the United States and the
defense of freedom and peace, project the
ground combat power of the United States
by air transport to the far reaches of the bat-
tle area and to the far corners of the world;
Whereas, on June 25, 1940, experiments
with airborne operations by the United
States began when the Army Parachute Test
Platoon was first authorized by the Depart-
ment of War;
Whereas, in July 1940, 48 volunteers began
training for the Army Parachute Test Pla-
toon;
Whereas August 16 marks the anniversary
of the first official Army parachute jump,
which took place on August 16, 1940, to test
the innovative concept of inserting United
States ground combat forces behind a battle
line by means of a parachute;
Whereas the success of the Army Para-
chute Test Platoon in the days immediately
before the entry of the United States into
World War II validated the airborne oper-
ational concept and led to the creation of a
formidable force of airborne formations that
included the 11th, 13th, 17th, 82nd, and 101st
Airborne Divisions;
Whereas, included in those divisions, and
among other separate formations, were
many airborne combat, combat support, and
combat service support units that served
with distinction and achieved repeated suc-
cess in armed hostilities during World War
II;
Whereas the achievements of the airborne
units during World War II prompted the evo-
lution of those units into a diversified force
of parachute and air-assault units that, over
the years, have fought in Korea, Vietnam,
Grenada, Panama, the Persian Gulf region,
and Somalia, and have engaged in peace-
keeping operations in Lebanon, the Sinai Pe-
ninsula, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, Bos-
nia, and Kosovo;
Whereas, since the terrorist attacks of
September 11, 2001, the members of the
United States airborne forces, including
members of the XVIII Airborne Corps, the
82nd Airborne Division, the 101st Airborne
Division, the 173rd Airborne Brigade Combat
Team, the 4th Brigade Combat Team (Air-
borne) of the 25th Infantry Division, the 75th
Ranger Regiment, special operations forces
of the Army, Marine Corps, Navy, and Air
Force, and other units of the Armed Forces,
have demonstrated bravery and honor in
combat, stability, and training operations in
Afghanistan and Iraq;
Whereas the modern-day airborne forces
also include other elite forces composed of
airborne trained and qualified special oper-
ations warriors, including Army Special
Forces, Marine Corps Reconnaissance units,
Navy SEALs, and Air Force combat control
and pararescue teams;
Whereas, of the members and former mem-
bers of the United States airborne forces,
thousands have achieved the distinction of
making combat jumps, dozens have earned
the Medal of Honor, and hundreds have
earned the Distinguished Service Cross, the
Silver Star, or other decorations and awards
for displays of heroism, gallantry, intre-
pidity, and valor;
Whereas the members and former members
of the United States airborne forces are all
members of a proud and honorable tradition
that, together with the special skills and
achievements of those members, distin-
guishes the members as intrepid combat
parachutists, air assault forces, special oper-
ation forces, and, in the past, glider troops;
Whereas individuals from every State of
the United States have served gallantly in
the airborne forces, and each State is proud
of the contributions of its paratrooper vet-
erans during the many conflicts faced by the
United States;
Whereas the history and achievements of
the members and former members of the
United States airborne forces warrant spe-
cial expressions of the gratitude of the peo-
ple of the United States; and
Whereas, since the airborne forces, past
and present, celebrate August 16 as the anni-
versary of the first official jump by the
Army Parachute Test Platoon, August 16 is
an appropriate day to recognize as National
Airborne Day: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates August 16, 2019, as ‘‘National
Airborne Day’’; and
(2) calls on the people of the United States
to observe National Airborne Day with ap-
propriate programs, ceremonies, and activi-
ties.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 295—DESIG-
NATING THE MONTH OF SEP-
TEMBER 2019 AS ‘‘CAMPUS FIRE
SAFETY MONTH’’
Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Mr. CAR-
PER, and Ms. WARREN) submitted the
following resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 295
Whereas campus-related housing fires at
colleges in Texas, Oregon, Illinois, Wash-
ington, D.C., Pennsylvania, and other States
have tragically cut short the lives of several
young people;
Whereas, since January 2000, at least 175
people, including students, parents, and chil-
dren, have died in campus-related fires;
Whereas approximately 87 percent of those
deaths occurred in off-campus occupancies;
Whereas a majority of college students in
the United States live in off-campus occu-
pancies;
Whereas a number of fatal fires have oc-
curred in buildings in which the occupants
had compromised or deactivated the fire
safety systems;
Whereas automatic fire alarm systems and
smoke alarms provide early warning of a fire
that is necessary for occupants of a building
and the fire department to take appropriate
action;
Whereas an automatic fire sprinkler sys-
tem is a highly effective method of control-
ling or extinguishing a fire in its early
stages, protecting the lives of the building
occupants;
Whereas many college students live in an
off-campus occupancy, fraternity or sorority
house, or residence hall that is not ade-
quately protected by an automatic fire sprin-
kler system and an automatic fire alarm sys-
tem or adequate smoke alarm;
Whereas fire safety education is an effec-
tive method of reducing the occurrence of
fires and the resulting loss of life and prop-
erty damage;
Whereas college students do not routinely
receive effective fire safety education while
in college;
Whereas educating young people in the
United States about the importance of fire
safety is vital to help ensure that young peo-
ple engage in fire-safe behavior during col-
lege and after college; and
Whereas developing a generation of adults
who practice fire safety may significantly
reduce future loss of life: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates the month of September 2019
as ‘‘Campus Fire Safety Month’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.047 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5257
July 31, 2019
(2) encourages administrators of institu-
tions of higher education and municipalities
across the United States—
(A) to provide educational programs about
fire safety to all college students in Sep-
tember and throughout the school year;
(B) to evaluate the level of fire safety
being provided in both on-campus and off-
campus student housing; and
(C) to ensure fire-safe living environments
through—
(i) fire safety education;
(ii) installation of fire suppression and de-
tection systems and smoke alarms; and
(iii) the development and enforcement of
applicable codes relating to fire safety.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 296—CON-
GRATULATING THE UNITED
STATES WOMEN’S NATIONAL
SOCCER TEAM FOR WINNING THE
2019 FIFA WOMEN’S WORLD CUP
Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Ms.
COLLINS, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. REED, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. JONES, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. COONS, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. BENNET, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
CASEY, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. LEAHY, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. STABE-
NOW, Mr. MARKEY, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Ms. WARREN, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. SANDERS,
Mr. WARNER, Ms. SINEMA, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
KAINE, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. CARPER, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. SCHU-
MER, and Ms. MURKOWSKI) submitted
the following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation:
S. RES. 296
Whereas on July 7, 2019, in Lyon, France,
the United States Women’s National Soccer
Team (referred to in this preamble as the
‘‘USWNT’’) won the 2019 FIFA Women’s
World Cup (referred to in this preamble as
the ‘‘Women’s World Cup’’);
Whereas during the Women’s World Cup
the USWNT finished first in its group before
eliminating teams representing Spain,
France, and England in the knockout stages
to reach the final;
Whereas the USWNT secured a decisive 2–
0 victory over the Netherlands in the final,
winning the Women’s World Cup champion-
ship twice in a row and becoming the first
team to win the Women’s World Cup 4 times;
Whereas the USWNT scored the first goal
in every match it played during the Women’s
World Cup;
Whereas, in the final match against the
Netherlands, Megan Rapinoe scored in the
61st minute and Rose Lavelle scored in the
69th minute of the match;
Whereas Crystal Dunn, Alyssa Naeher, and
other members of the defensive line played
key roles in preventing the Netherlands from
scoring against the United States;
Whereas all 23 players on the roster should
be congratulated, including captains Carli
Lloyd, Alex Morgan, and Megan Rapinoe, as
well as Morgan Brian, Abby Dahlkemper,
Tierna Davidson, Crystal Dunn, Julie Ertz,
Adrianna Franch, Ashlyn Harris, Tobin
Heath, Lindsey Horan, Ali Krieger, Rose
Lavelle, Allie Long, Jessica McDonald,
Samantha Mewis, Alyssa Naeher, Kelley
O’Hara, Christen Press, Mallory Pugh, Becky
Sauerbrunn, and Emily Sonnett;
Whereas head coach Jill Ellis, the first
coach to win consecutive FIFA Women’s
World Cup titles, displayed extraordinary
leadership in adjusting the team’s starting
lineup as the tournament progressed in order
to promote teamwork and capitalize on the
talents of each player;
Whereas Megan Rapinoe was presented
with the Golden Boot award, which is award-
ed to the individual who scores the most
goals in the tournament, and the Golden Ball
award, which is awarded to the tournament’s
best player;
Whereas Alex Morgan was presented with
the Silver Boot award, which is awarded to
the individual who scores the second-most
goals in the tournament, and Rose Lavelle
was presented with the Bronze Ball award,
which is awarded to the third-best player in
the tournament;
Whereas the USWNT was bolstered by his-
toric attacking prowess, setting all-time
records for goals scored in a single game and
throughout the entire Women’s World Cup,
as well as a strong defensive record, con-
ceding only 3 goals over 7 games;
Whereas every participant in the Women’s
World Cup from nations all over the world
showed the extraordinary quality and spirit
of women’s soccer, and will serve as an inspi-
ration to not only women and girls, but to
all people as they chase their dreams;
Whereas for decades the USWNT has been
leading the fight to grow and promote wom-
en’s soccer;
Whereas the USWNT is leading the fight
for equal pay for female athletes; and
Whereas dedicated fans and citizens across
the United States showed their unmitigated
support for the USWNT as they competed in
France: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) congratulates the USWNT for winning
the 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup through
spectacular skill, teamwork, and determina-
tion;
(2) recognizes the achievements of all of
the players, coaches, and staff who contrib-
uted to the success of the USWNT;
(3) stands in solidarity with the women of
the USWNT as they fight for equal pay; and
(4) celebrates the contributions of the mil-
lions of fans across the United States, and
the world, who cheered the USWNT to vic-
tory, and made the players the best sup-
ported team in the world.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 297—COM-
MENDING THE INTER-AMERICAN
FOUNDATION (IAF) ON THE OC-
CASION OF ITS 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY FOR ITS SIGNIFICANT AC-
COMPLISHMENTS AND CON-
TRIBUTIONS TO THE ECONOMIC
AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT OF
THE AMERICAS
Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. CRUZ, and Mr.
KAINE) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 297
Whereas December 30, 2019, marks the 50th
anniversary of the establishment of the
Inter-American Foundation (referred to in
this preamble as the ‘‘IAF’’), an independent
Federal agency in the United States that
prioritizes sustainable, community-led de-
velopment across Latin America and the
Caribbean;
Whereas the IAF was created under section
401 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969 (22
U.S.C. 290f) ‘‘to achieve conditions in the
Western Hemisphere under which the dignity
and the worth of each human person will be
respected and under which all men will be af-
forded the opportunity to develop their po-
tential, to seek through gainful and produc-
tive work the fulfillment of their aspirations
for a better life, and to live in justice and
peace’’;
Whereas the IAF invests in effective grass-
roots solutions that promote prosperity and
peace, and advance the growth of democratic
institutions;
Whereas the unique development model of
the IAF, applied through more than 5,000
community-led grants, has empowered mil-
lions of marginalized and underserved people
in the Americas to achieve dignified liveli-
hoods, effective civil engagement, and safer,
more peaceful, and more just communities;
Whereas the IAF’s model—
(1) has demonstrated that making direct
grants to grassroots groups and civil society
organizations in underserved and vulnerable
communities is cost-effective;
(2) fosters self-reliance by requiring grant-
ees to mobilize local resources for their own
projects and by connecting them to networks
of new partners;
(3) leverages additional resources from pri-
vate and community partners; and
(4) incentivizes broad civic engagement
and local ownership of community develop-
ment;
Whereas the IAF—by investing in grass-
roots approaches that create businesses,
jobs, and leadership opportunities in commu-
nities—reinforces the commitment of indi-
viduals to strengthening their own commu-
nities;
Whereas investments made by the IAF
have created an extensive network of grass-
roots innovators and changemakers who—
(1) are positively disposed to the United
States;
(2) are better positioned to partner with
other United States Government agencies
and other public and private funders; and
(3) have gone on to leadership roles at the
local and national levels;
Whereas investments made by the IAF
have improved the quality of life and democ-
racy in the Americas by strengthening the
capacity of individuals to participate in civic
life, engage constructively with their local
officials, and hold their governments ac-
countable;
Whereas, by listening and responding to
the priorities of communities and investing
in projects that utilize and validate local
knowledge and expertise, the IAF has fos-
tered trust and goodwill with the people of
Latin America and the Caribbean; and
Whereas the IAF’s support of community-
led efforts designed to increase opportunities
for development and the strengthening of
civil society and democratic governance has
advanced the national interests of the
United States and promoted democratic val-
ues across the Western Hemisphere: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) commends the Inter-American Founda-
tion on the occasion of the 50th anniversary
of its establishment for its significant con-
tributions to strengthening democracy,
peace, and economic and social development
in Latin American and the Caribbean;
(2) recognizes that the bottom-up approach
of the Inter-American Foundation empowers
individuals in marginalized and underserved
communities to be leaders, entrepreneurs,
innovators, and changemakers in develop-
ment processes;
(3) recognizes that the Inter-American
Foundation advances the foreign policy of
the United States Government and contrib-
utes directly to the national interests of the
United States; and
(4) commits to continue to support the
vital work of the Inter-American Foundation
as an independent agency.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.068 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5258 July 31, 2019
SENATE RESOLUTION 298—CONCUR-
RING WITH THE DECISION TO
WITHDRAW THE UNITED STATES
FROM THE INF TREATY, AND
FOR OTHER PURPOSES
Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. CRUZ, Mr.
WICKER, Mr. COTTON, Mr. BLUNT, Mr.
JOHNSON, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. CRAMER,
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr.
SULLIVAN, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
BRAUN, Mrs. BLACKBURN, and Mr. COR-
NYN) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 298
Whereas, since 2014, the United States Gov-
ernment has found the Russian Federation
to be in violation of the limitations in the
Treaty between the United States of Amer-
ica and the Union of Soviet Socialist Repub-
lics on the Elimination of Their Inter-
mediate-Range and Shorter-Range Missiles,
together with the Memorandum of Under-
standing and Two Protocols, signed at Wash-
ington December 8, 1987, and entered into
force June 1, 1988 (commonly referred to as
the ‘‘INF Treaty’’);
Whereas, per Article XV of the INF Treaty,
‘‘Each Party shall, in exercising its national
sovereignty, have the right to withdraw from
this Treaty if it decides that extraordinary
events related to the subject matter of this
Treaty have jeopardized its supreme inter-
ests. It shall give notice of its decision to
withdraw to the other Party six months
prior to withdrawal from this Treaty.’’;
Whereas, on February 2, 2019, the United
States notified the Russian Federation of its
intent to withdraw from the INF Treaty;
Whereas the period of six month notice, re-
quired by Article XV of the INF Treaty, will
close on August 2, 2019; and
Whereas, during the six month notice pe-
riod, the Russian Federation made no at-
tempt to return to compliance with the
terms of the INF Treaty: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) in accordance with all powers delegated
and implied to Congress, concurs with the
decision to withdraw the United States from
the INF Treaty; and
(2) declares that—
(A) the United States is freed and exoner-
ated from the stipulations of the INF Treaty;
and
(B) the treaty shall not be regarded as le-
gally obligatory on the Government or citi-
zens of the United States.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 299—DESIG-
NATING THE FIRST WEEK IN AU-
GUST 2019 AS ‘‘WORLD
BREASTFEEDING WEEK’’, AND
DESIGNATING AUGUST 2019 AS
‘‘NATIONAL BREASTFEEDING
MONTH’’
Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. BROWN, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
CARDIN, and Mr. COONS) submitted the
following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judici-
ary:
S. RES. 299
Whereas the American Academy of Pediat-
rics recommends that a baby be fed exclu-
sively through breastfeeding for about the
first 6 months after the birth of the baby,
followed by continued breastfeeding as com-
plementary foods are introduced, with con-
tinuation of breastfeeding for 1 year or
longer as mutually desired by the mother
and infant;
Whereas the World Alliance for
Breastfeeding Action has designated the first
week of August as ‘‘World Breastfeeding
Week’’, and the United States Breastfeeding
Committee has designated August as ‘‘Na-
tional Breastfeeding Month’’;
Whereas National Breastfeeding Month fo-
cuses on how data and measurement can be
used to build and reinforce the connections
between breastfeeding and a broad spectrum
of other health topics and initiatives;
Whereas World Breastfeeding Week and
National Breastfeeding Month provide im-
portant opportunities to address barriers to
breastfeeding faced by families across the
United States and around the world;
Whereas, according to the 2016
Breastfeeding Report Card of the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, 81.1 percent
of mothers in the United States, or about 4
out of every 5 mothers in the United States,
start breastfeeding their babies at the birth
of their baby;
Whereas by the end of 6 months after the
birth of a baby, breastfeeding rates for moth-
ers in the United States fall to 51.8 percent,
and only 22.3 percent of babies in the United
States are exclusively breastfed at 6 months
of age;
Whereas 2 of every 3 mothers report that
they are unable to reach their personal
breastfeeding goals;
Whereas there are substantial racial and
ethnic disparities in breastfeeding initiation
and duration;
Whereas, in 2014, 85.7 percent of non-His-
panic White infants were breastfed, as com-
pared to—
(1) 68.0 percent of non-Hispanic Black in-
fants; and
(2) 79.5 percent of non-Hispanic American
Indian and Alaska Native infants;
Whereas the Healthy People 2020 objectives
for breastfeeding are that—
(1) 82 percent of babies are breastfed at
some time;
(2) 61 percent of babies continue to be
breastfed at 6 months; and
(3) 34 percent of babies continue to be
breastfed at 1 year;
Whereas breastfeeding is a proven primary
prevention strategy that builds a foundation
for life-long health and wellness;
Whereas the evidence of the value of
breastfeeding to the health of women and
children is scientific, solid, and continually
reaffirmed by new research;
Whereas a 2016 study of maternal and pedi-
atric health outcomes and associated costs
based on 2012 breastfeeding rates indicates
that if 90 percent of infants were breastfed
according to medical recommendations, 3,340
deaths, $3,000,000,000 in medical costs, and
$14,200,000,000 in costs relating to premature
death would be prevented annually;
Whereas the great majority of pregnant
women and new mothers want to breastfeed
but face significant barriers in community,
health care, and employment settings; and
Whereas a 2016 study found that universal
breastfeeding—
(1) could prevent 800,000 child deaths per
year across the world; and
(2) is an invaluable tool for mothers to pro-
vide essential nutrients to protect newborns
against infectious diseases in developing
countries: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates the first week of August 2019
as ‘‘World Breastfeeding Week’’;
(2) designates August 2019 as ‘‘National
Breastfeeding Month’’;
(3) supports the goals of World
Breastfeeding Week and National
Breastfeeding Month; and
(4) supports policies and funding to ensure
that all mothers who choose to breastfeed
can access a full range of appropriate sup-
port from child care and health care institu-
tions, health care insurers, employers, re-
searchers, and government entities.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 300—SUP-
PORTING THE GOALS AND
IDEALS OF NATIONAL PUBLIC
HEALTH WEEK
Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. CARDIN, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
Mr. KING, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
and Ms. KLOBUCHAR) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 300
Whereas the week of April 1, 2019, through
April 7, 2019, is National Public Health Week;
Whereas the theme for National Public
Health Week in 2019 is ‘‘Creating the Health-
iest Nation: For science. For action. For
health.’’;
Whereas the goal of National Public Health
Week in 2019 is to recognize the contribu-
tions of public health to—
(1) improving the health of the people of
the United States; and
(2) achieving health equity;
Whereas, in 2017, the life expectancy for
the United States population declined for the
third year in a row, and some of the leading
causes of death are among the most com-
mon, costly, and preventable of all health
problems;
Whereas there is a significant difference in
the health status of people living in the
healthiest States compared to people living
in the least healthy States, including dif-
ferences in obesity rates, the prevalence of
chronic disease, and the prevalence of infec-
tious disease;
Whereas, despite significant progress in re-
ducing the infant mortality rate in the
United States to a historic low of 5.8 infant
deaths per 1,000 live births in 2017, the num-
ber of infant deaths in the United States
greatly varies among States;
Whereas women die from pregnancy-re-
lated deaths in the United States at a higher
rate than in many other developed countries,
and an estimated 60 percent of maternal
deaths are preventable;
Whereas poisoning, including drug over-
dose, has become the leading cause of acci-
dental death in the United States, with the
number of drug overdoses more than tripling
between 1999 and 2016;
Whereas, on average, 130 people in the
United States die every day from an opioid
overdose;
Whereas the smoking of cigarettes is the
leading cause of preventable disease and
death in the United States, accounting for
more than 480,000 deaths every year, includ-
ing more than 41,000 deaths resulting from
secondhand smoke;
Whereas the percentage of adults in the
United States who smoke cigarettes has de-
creased from 20.9 percent of the population
in 2005 to 14 percent of the population in 2017;
Whereas, according to data from the Na-
tional Youth Tobacco Survey, between 2017
and 2018, current electronic cigarette use by
students in the United States increased by 78
percent among high school students and by
48 percent among middle school students;
Whereas public health organizations use
National Public Health Week to educate the
public, policymakers, and public health pro-
fessionals on issues that are important to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.072 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5259
July 31, 2019
improving the health of the people of the
United States;
Whereas studies show that small strategic
investments in prevention can result in sig-
nificant savings in health care costs;
Whereas vaccination is 1 of the most sig-
nificant public health achievements in his-
tory and has resulted in substantial de-
creases in—
(1) the number of cases, hospitalizations,
and deaths associated with vaccine-prevent-
able diseases; and
(2) the amount of health care costs associ-
ated with vaccine-preventable diseases;
Whereas each 10 percent increase in local
public health spending contributes to—
(1) a 6.9 percent decrease in infant deaths;
(2) a 3.2 percent decrease in deaths related
to cardiovascular disease;
(3) a 1.4 percent decrease in deaths due to
diabetes; and
(4) a 1.1 percent decrease in cancer-related
deaths;
Whereas public health professionals help
communities prevent, prepare for, withstand,
and recover from the impact of a full range
of health threats, including—
(1) disease outbreaks, such as the Zika
virus and measles;
(2) natural disasters; and
(3) disasters caused by human activity;
Whereas public health professionals col-
laborate with partners that are not in the
health sector, such as city planners, trans-
portation officials, education officials, and
private sector businesses, recognizing that
other sectors have an important influence on
health;
Whereas, in communities across the United
States, people are changing the way they
care for their health by avoiding tobacco
use, eating healthier, becoming more phys-
ically active, and preventing unintentional
injuries at home and in the workplace; and
Whereas efforts to adequately support pub-
lic health and the prevention of disease and
injury can continue to transform a health
system focused on treating illness into a
health system focused on preventing disease
and injury and promoting wellness: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the goals and ideals of Na-
tional Public Health Week;
(2) recognizes the efforts of public health
professionals, the Federal Government,
States, Tribes, municipalities, local commu-
nities, and individuals in preventing disease
and injury;
(3) recognizes the role of public health in
improving the health of individuals in the
United States;
(4) encourages increased efforts and re-
sources to improve the health of people in
the United States and make the United
States, in 1 generation, the healthiest nation
in the world—
(A) by providing greater opportunities to
improve community health and prevent dis-
ease and injury; and
(B) by strengthening the public health sys-
tem in the United States; and
(5) encourages the people of the United
States to learn about the role of the public
health system in improving health in the
United States.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 301—HON-
ORING THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE RETURN OF THE INDI-
ANA RANGERS
Mr. BRAUN (for himself and Mr.
YOUNG) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was considered and agreed
to:
S. RES. 301
Whereas the lineage of the 151st Infantry
Regiment of the Indiana National Guard
dates back to the formation of the 2nd Regi-
ment of Indiana Volunteers in June 1846;
Whereas in 1968, Company D of the 151st In-
fantry Regiment of the Indiana National
Guard was activated in preparation for de-
ployment to Vietnam;
Whereas Company D of the 151st Infantry
Regiment was commonly referred to as the
‘‘Indiana Rangers’’;
Whereas in December of 1968, the Indiana
Rangers were deployed to Vietnam;
Whereas the Indiana Rangers were the only
Army National Guard ground maneuver unit
to serve in Southeast Asia;
Whereas the Indiana Rangers served in
Vietnam from December of 1968 to November
of 1969;
Whereas the Indiana Rangers earned more
decorations during their year of service in
Vietnam than any other Army infantry com-
pany during any 1-year period in the Viet-
nam War; and
Whereas in November of 1969, the Indiana
Rangers returned to Indiana: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that—
(1) the Indiana Rangers that served in the
Vietnam War fought for the United States
with bravery and honor;
(2) the Indiana Rangers and all members of
the armed forces who served in the Vietnam
War continue to be held in the highest pos-
sible regard by their community and the
United States;
(3) we honor the service of this unit on the
50th anniversary of the return of the Indiana
Rangers; and
(4) for the many that were willing to sac-
rifice for the United States, and the many
that did not return home, the United States
was preserved and will continue to prosper.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 302—DESIG-
NATING SEPTEMBER 2019 AS
‘‘NATIONAL CHILD AWARENESS
MONTH’’ TO PROMOTE AWARE-
NESS OF CHARITIES THAT BEN-
EFIT CHILDREN AND YOUTH-
SERVING ORGANIZATIONS
THROUGHOUT THE UNITED
STATES, AND RECOGNIZING THE
EFFORTS MADE BY THOSE
CHARITIES AND ORGANIZATIONS
ON BEHALF OF CHILDREN AND
YOUTH AS CRITICAL CONTRIBU-
TIONS TO THE FUTURE OF THE
UNITED STATES
Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr.
LANKFORD, Ms. HASSAN, Mrs. CAPITO,
Mr. JONES, Mr. BRAUN, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
BROWN, and Ms. ROSEN) submitted the
following resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 302
Whereas millions of children and youth in
the United States represent the hopes and
the future of the United States;
Whereas numerous individuals, charities
benefitting children, and youth-serving orga-
nizations that work with children and youth
collaborate to provide invaluable services to
enrich and better the lives of children and
youth throughout the United States;
Whereas raising awareness of, and increas-
ing support for, organizations that provide
access to health care, social services, edu-
cation, the arts, sports, and other services
will result in the development of character
in, and the future success of, the children
and youth of the United States;
Whereas the month of September, as the
school year begins, is a time when parents,
families, teachers, school administrators,
and communities increase focus on children
and youth throughout the United States;
Whereas the month of September is a time
for the people of the United States to high-
light, and be mindful of, the needs of chil-
dren and youth;
Whereas private corporations and busi-
nesses have joined with hundreds of national
and local charitable organizations through-
out the United States in support of a month-
long focus on children and youth; and
Whereas designating September 2019 as
‘‘National Child Awareness Month’’ would
recognize that a long-term commitment to
children and youth is in the public interest
and will encourage widespread support for
charities and organizations that seek to pro-
vide a better future for the children and
youth of the United States: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Senate designates Sep-
tember 2019 as ‘‘National Child Awareness
Month’’—
(1) to promote awareness of charities that
benefit children and youth-serving organiza-
tions throughout the United States;
(2) to recognize the efforts made by those
charities and organizations on behalf of chil-
dren and youth as critical contributions to
the future of the United States; and
(3) to recognize the importance of meeting
the needs of at-risk children and youth, in-
cluding children and youth who—
(A) have experienced homelessness;
(B) are in the foster care system;
(C) have been victims, or are at risk of be-
coming victims, of child sex trafficking;
(D) have been impacted by violence;
(E) have experienced trauma; and
(F) have serious physical and mental
health needs.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 23—HONORING THE 75TH
ANNIVERSARY OF THE BATTLE
OF THE BULGE FOUGHT DURING
WORLD WAR II, RECOGNIZING
THE VALIANT EFFORTS OF THE
ALLIED FORCES IN DECEMBER
1944, AND REMEMBERING THOSE
WHO MADE THE ULTIMATE SAC-
RIFICE, ALL OF WHICH CONTRIB-
UTED TO THE ALLIED VICTORY
IN THE EUROPEAN THEATER
Mr. CRAMER (for himself, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mr. DAINES,
Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. CASSIDY,
Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. ROBERTS,
Mr. RUBIO, Mr. HOEVEN, Ms. COLLINS,
Ms. ERNST, Mr. MORAN, Mr. ROUNDS,
Mr. WICKER, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
GRAHAM, Mr. RISCH, Mr. YOUNG, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. SCOTT of
Florida, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. TOOMEY,
Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. WARREN, Mr. COONS,
Mr. SCHUMER, Mr. MURPHY, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
JONES, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. BENNET,
Mr. BOOKER, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. TESTER,
Ms. ROSEN, and Mr. VAN HOLLEN) sub-
mitted the following concurrent resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. CON. RES. 23
Whereas the Battle of the Bulge was the
last major German offensive in Western Eu-
rope during World War II, designed to split
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.073 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5260 July 31, 2019
the Allied Forces, regain the initiative in the
West, and pressure the Allies to seek a nego-
tiated peace;
Whereas, in the Ardennes region of Bel-
gium and Luxembourg, more than 650,000
troops from the United States, Great Brit-
ain, Belgium, Canada, and other Allied
Forces defeated Germany in the Battle of the
Bulge, which began December 16, 1944, and
ended January 25, 1945;
Whereas the Battle of the Bulge resulted in
over 89,000 United States casualties, includ-
ing 19,000 soldiers killed, 47,500 wounded, and
more than 23,000 captured or missing-in-ac-
tion;
Whereas the Allied Forces overcame formi-
dable obstacles that included being greatly
outnumbered by the German Army, harsh
weather conditions, and the treacherous and
unknown terrain of the Ardennes Forest re-
gion of Belgium;
Whereas on December 17, 1944, during one
of the worst atrocities of the war in Europe,
the Malmedy Massacre, 84 unarmed Amer-
ican prisoners of war were shot by troops of
the 1st SS Panzer Division;
Whereas 11 African American soldiers of
the 333rd Field Artillery Battalion were mas-
sacred by SS troops near Wereth, Belgium
and were identified as James Stewart of
West Virginia, Due Turner of Arkansas, Cur-
tis Adams of South Carolina, Mager Bradley
of Mississippi, George Davis, Jr. of Alabama,
Thomas Forte of Mississippi, Robert Green
of Georgia, James Leatherwood of Mis-
sissippi, Nathaniel Moss of Texas, George
Moten of Texas, and William Pritchett of
Alabama;
Whereas the impressive leadership of Lieu-
tenant General George S. Patton of the
Third Army accelerated the success of the
Allied Forces during the Battle of the Bulge;
Whereas, although Belgium lost more than
74,000 civilians during the war, in addition to
many more having suffered through other
atrocities that come with war, the people of
Belgium persevered through the difficult pe-
riod of time and rebuilt their lives the best
they could after the war ended;
Whereas the success of the Allied Forces in
beating back the German attack in the Bat-
tle of the Bulge made possible the final de-
feat and surrender of Nazi Germany in May
1945;
Whereas the citizens of Belgium and Lux-
embourg have generously hosted thousands
of United States veterans and kept the mem-
ory of the Battle of the Bulge alive through
numerous memorials and museums, includ-
ing the Henri-Chapelle American Cemetery
and Memorial, the Ardennes American Cem-
etery and Memorial, the Luxembourg Amer-
ican Cemetery, the Battle of the Ardennes
Museum, the Bastogne War Museum, and the
Bastogne December Historic Walk; and
Whereas, after the Battle of the Bulge
ended, British Prime Minister Winston
Churchill said, ‘‘This is undoubtedly the
greatest American battle of the war and will,
I believe, be regarded as an ever-famous
American victory.’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That the Senate—
(1) commemorates, on December 16, 2019,
the 75th Anniversary of the Battle of the
Bulge in World War II;
(2) recognizes the valiant efforts of the var-
ious Allied Forces; and
(3) remembers the individuals who made
the ultimate sacrifice, which contributed to
the Allied victory in the European Theater.
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 24—RECOGNIZING THE 50TH
ANNIVERSARY OF THE FOOD
AND NUTRITION SERVICE OF
THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRI-
CULTURE
Mr. ROBERTS (for himself and Ms.
STABENOW) submitted the following
concurrent resolution; which was con-
sidered and agreed to:
S. CON. RES. 24
Whereas the Food and Nutrition Service
was founded on August 8, 1969, and has
worked in a public-private partnership to re-
duce food insecurity and promote nutritious
diets among the people of the United States;
Whereas the Food and Nutrition Service
partners with State and local governments,
Tribal organizations, school systems, non-
profit organizations, private sector compa-
nies, and faith-based organizations—
(1) to address hunger, poverty, and nutri-
tion; and
(2) to provide support to over 36,000,000 peo-
ple in the United States who live in house-
holds that face hunger on a daily basis;
Whereas the Food and Nutrition Service
administers 15 nutrition assistance programs
that leverage the agricultural abundance of
the United States to ensure that children,
seniors, and low-income individuals and fam-
ilies have access to nutritious food;
Whereas the programs of the Food and Nu-
trition Service reach 1 in 4 people in the
United States each year;
Whereas it is the mission of Food and Nu-
trition Service to increase food security and
reduce hunger while maintaining the integ-
rity and efficiency of programs that provide
nutrition assistance to the people of the
United States when those people are in need;
and
Whereas the Food and Nutrition Service
co-develops the Dietary Guidelines for Amer-
icans, which provide science-based nutrition
recommendations and serve as the corner-
stone of Federal nutrition policy: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), that Congress—
(1) recognizes the valuable historic and
continued contributions of the Food and Nu-
trition Service and the employees of the
Food and Nutrition Service to the nutrition,
health, and well-being of the people of the
United States;
(2) commends the partnership efforts of
States, territories, local governments, Tribal
organizations, school systems, nonprofit
charitable organizations, private sector com-
panies, and community-based organizations
to end hunger and provide nutritious food to
the people of the United States;
(3) encourages continued efforts—
(A) to educate the people of the United
States on the importance of eating nutri-
tiously; and
(B) to provide nutrition assistance to all
people of the United States when those peo-
ple are in need;
(4) recognizes that the Food and Nutrition
Service uses the bounty of the farmers and
ranchers of the United States to reduce food
insecurity; and
(5) recognizes and reaffirms the commit-
ment of the United States to—
(A) ending hunger in the United States;
and
(B) continuing to lead the world in ending
hunger worldwide.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 933. Mr. CORNYN (for Mr. VAN HOLLEN)
proposed an amendment to the bill S. 2052, to
authorize the honorary promotion of Colonel
Charles E. McGee to brigadier general in the
United States Air Force.
SA 934. Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
LEE) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 3877, to
amend the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985, to establish a
congressional budget for fiscal years 2020 and
2021, to temporarily suspend the debt limit,
and for other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 933. Mr. CORNYN (for Mr. VAN
HOLLEN) proposed an amendment to
the bill S. 2052, to authorize the hon-
orary promotion of Colonel Charles E.
McGee to brigadier general in the
United States Air Force; as follows:
At the end, add the following:
SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON BENEFITS.
No person is entitled to any bonus, gra-
tuity, pay, or allowance by reason of section
1.
SA 934. Mr. GARDNER (for himself
and Mr. LEE) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the
bill H.R. 3877, to amend the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985, to establish a congressional
budget for fiscal years 2020 and 2021, to
temporarily suspend the debt limit,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title III, add the following:
SEC. 302. REDUCING EXCESSIVE GOVERNMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘agency’’ has the meaning
given the term ‘‘Executive agency’’ under
section 105 of title 5, United States Code;
(2) the term ‘‘amount of the increase in the
debt limit’’ means—
(A) the dollar amount of the increase in
the debt limit specified in the Act increasing
the debt limit; or
(B) in the case of a suspension of the debt
limit, the amount by which the Secretary of
the Treasury estimates the debt limit shall
be increased at the end of the period of the
suspension, which the Secretary shall submit
to Congress on the date of enactment of such
an Act, or in the case of section 301 of this
Act, as soon as is practicable after the date
of enactment of this Act;
(3) the term ‘‘debt limit’’ means the limita-
tion imposed by section 3101(b) of title 31,
United States Code;
(4) the term ‘‘direct cost of Federal regula-
tion’’ means all costs incurred by, and ex-
penditures required of, the Federal Govern-
ment in issuing and enforcing Federal regu-
lations, rules, statements, and legislation;
(5) the term ‘‘joint resolution’’ means a
joint resolution—
(A) reported by the Committee on the
Budget of the Senate or the House of Rep-
resentatives in accordance with subsection
(d)(3);
(B) which does not have a preamble;
(C) the title of which is as follows: ‘‘Joint
resolution relating to repeal of costly rules’’;
and
(D) the matter after the resolving clause of
which is as follows: ‘‘That the following
rules shall have no force or effect:
lllllll.’’, the blank space being filled
in with the list of major rules recommended
to be repealed under subsection (d) by the
committees of the House in which the joint
resolution is reported;
(6) the term ‘‘major rule’’ means any rule
that has resulted in or is likely to result in—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.082 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5261
July 31, 2019
(A) an annual effect on the economy of
$100,000,000 or more;
(B) a major increase in costs or prices for
consumers, individual industries, Federal,
State, or local government agencies, or geo-
graphic regions; or
(C) significant adverse effects on competi-
tion, employment, investment, productivity,
innovation, or on the ability of United
States-based enterprises to compete with
foreign-based enterprises in domestic and ex-
port markets; and
(7) the term ‘‘suspension of the debt
limit’’—
(A) means an Act that provides that the
debt limit shall not apply for a period and
that the amount of the debt limit is in-
creased at the end of such period; and
(B) includes section 301 of this Act and any
Act described in subparagraph (A) that is en-
acted after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(b) REDUCTIONS IN REGULATORY COST.—Not
later than 60 days after the date on which
the debt limit is increased or a suspension of
the debt limit takes effect, Congress shall
consider, in accordance with the rules under
subsection (e), legislation eliminating rules
that results in a reduction of the direct cost
of Federal regulation during the 10-fiscal-
year period beginning with the next full fis-
cal year by not less than 15 percent of the
amount of the increase in the debt limit.
(c) ACTION BY AGENCIES.—
(1) IDENTIFICATION OF MAJOR RULES.—If the
amount of the debt limit is increased or a
suspension of the debt limit takes effect,
each agency shall submit to the Senate, the
House of Representatives, and the Comp-
troller General of the United States a report
identifying each major rule of the agency, as
determined by the head of the agency.
(2) CERTIFICATION BY GAO.—After receipt of
all reports required under paragraph (1), the
Comptroller General of the United States
shall submit to the Senate and the House of
Representatives a report evaluating whether
agencies appropriately identified major rules
under paragraph (1), including whether the
agencies identified major rules in accordance
with Office of Management and Budget Cir-
cular A–4, or any successor thereto.
(d) ACTION BY COMMITTEES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each committee of the
Senate and the House of Representatives
shall submit to the Committee on the Budg-
et of its House a list of the major rules
that—
(A) are within the jurisdiction of the com-
mittee, which may include major rules iden-
tified in the report of an agency under sub-
section (c)(1); and
(B) the committee recommends should be
repealed.
(2) CONSIDERATIONS.—In determining
whether to recommend repealing major rules
within its jurisdiction, a committee of the
Senate or the House of Representatives shall
consider—
(A) whether the major rule achieved, or
has been ineffective in achieving, the origi-
nal purpose of the major rule;
(B) any adverse effects that could mate-
rialize if the major rule is repealed, in par-
ticular if those adverse effects are the reason
the major rule was originally enacted;
(C) whether the costs of the major rule
outweigh any benefits of the major rule to
the United States;
(D) whether the major rule has become ob-
solete due to changes in technology, eco-
nomic conditions, market practices, or any
other factors; and
(E) whether the major rule overlaps with
another rule.
(3) COMBINING OF RECOMMENDATIONS.—The
Committee on the Budget of the Senate and
the Committee on the Budget of the House of
Representatives, upon receiving rec-
ommendations from all relevant committees
under paragraph (1), shall report to its House
a joint resolution carrying out all such rec-
ommendations without any substantive revi-
sion.
(e) EXPEDITED PROCEDURES.—
(1) CONSIDERATION IN HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES.—
(A) PLACEMENT ON CALENDAR.—Upon a joint
resolution being reported by the Committee
on the Budget of the House of Representa-
tives, or upon receipt of a joint resolution
from the Senate, the joint resolution shall be
placed immediately on the calendar.
(B) PROCEEDING TO CONSIDERATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—It shall be in order, not
later than 60 days after the date on which
the debt limit is increased or a suspension of
the debt limit takes effect, to move to pro-
ceed to consider a joint resolution in the
House of Representatives.
(ii) PROCEDURE.—For a motion to proceed
to consider a joint resolution—
(I) all points of order against the motion
are waived;
(II) such a motion shall not be in order
after the House of Representatives has dis-
posed of a motion to proceed to the joint res-
olution;
(III) the previous question shall be consid-
ered as ordered on the motion to its adoption
without intervening motion;
(IV) the motion shall not be debatable; and
(V) a motion to reconsider the vote by
which the motion is disposed of shall not be
in order.
(C) CONSIDERATION.—The House of Rep-
resentatives shall establish rules for consid-
eration of a joint resolution in the House of
Representatives.
(2) EXPEDITED CONSIDERATION IN SENATE.—
In the Senate:
(A) PLACEMENT ON CALENDAR.—Upon a joint
resolution being reported by the Committee
on the Budget of the Senate, or upon receipt
of a joint resolution from the House of Rep-
resentatives, the joint resolution shall be
placed immediately on the calendar.
(B) MOTION TO PROCEED.—
(i) TIMING.—A motion to proceed to a joint
resolution is in order at any time after the
resolution is placed on the calendar.
(ii) MOTION BY ANY SENATOR.—Any Senator
may move to proceed to a joint resolution.
(iii) PRIVILEGE.—A motion to proceed to
the consideration of the joint resolution is
privileged, except that this clause shall
apply only to a motion to proceed to a joint
resolution reported by the Committee on the
Budget under subsection (d) or to the first
joint resolution placed on the calendar after
passage in the House of Representatives.
(iv) DEBATE.—Debate on a motion to pro-
ceed to a joint resolution is limited to not
more than 5 hours, equally divided between
Senators favoring and Senators opposing the
resolution.
(v) MOTION NOT AMENDABLE.—The motion
to proceed to the joint resolution is not
amendable. A motion to reconsider is not in
order. A motion to table is not in order.
(vi) OTHER MOTIONS NOT IN ORDER.—After a
motion to proceed to a joint resolution is
agreed to, motions to postpone or to consider
other business are not in order.
(C) MOTIONS AND APPEALS.—All motions
and appeals relating to a joint resolution
shall be decided by the Senate without de-
bate.
(D) FLOOR CONSIDERATION GENERALLY.—If
the Senate proceeds to consideration of a
joint resolution—
(i) all points of order against the joint res-
olution (and against consideration of the
joint resolution) are waived;
(ii) consideration of the joint resolution,
and all amendments thereto and debatable
motions and appeals in connection there-
with, shall be limited to not more than 10
hours, which shall be divided equally be-
tween the majority and minority leaders or
their designees;
(iii) a motion to postpone or a motion to
commit the joint resolution is not in order;
and
(iv) a motion to proceed to the consider-
ation of other business is not in order.
(E) REQUIREMENTS FOR AMENDMENTS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—No amendment that is not
germane to the provisions of a joint resolu-
tion shall be considered.
(ii) REPEAL OF MAJOR RULES.—Notwith-
standing clause (i) or any other rule, an
amendment or series of amendments to a
joint resolution shall always be in order if
such amendment or series of amendments
proposes to repeal a major rule that would
result in a decrease in the direct cost of Fed-
eral regulation during the 10-fiscal-year pe-
riod beginning with the next full fiscal year.
(F) VOTE ON PASSAGE.—The vote on passage
shall occur immediately following the con-
clusion of the consideration of a joint resolu-
tion, and a single quorum call at the conclu-
sion of the debate if requested in accordance
with the rules of the Senate.
(G) RULINGS OF THE CHAIR ON PROCEDURE.—
Appeals from the decisions of the Chair re-
lating to the application of this subsection
or the rules of the Senate, as the case may
be, to the procedure relating to a joint reso-
lution shall be decided without debate.
(3) CONSIDERATION AFTER PASSAGE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If Congress passes a joint
resolution, the period beginning on the date
the President is presented with the joint res-
olution and ending on the date the President
takes action with respect to the joint resolu-
tion shall be disregarded in computing the
period described in subsection (g).
(B) VETOES.—If the President vetoes the
joint resolution—
(i) the period beginning on the date the
President vetoes the joint resolution and
ending on the date Congress receives the
veto message with respect to the joint reso-
lution shall be disregarded in computing the
period described in subsection (g); and
(ii) consideration of a veto message in the
Senate under this section shall be not more
than 2 hours equally divided between the ma-
jority and minority leaders or their des-
ignees.
(4) RULES OF HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
AND SENATE.—This subsection is enacted by
Congress—
(A) as an exercise of the rulemaking power
of the Senate and House of Representatives,
respectively, and as such is deemed a part of
the rules of each House, respectively, but ap-
plicable only with respect to the procedure
to be followed in that House in the case of a
joint resolution, and supersede other rules
only to the extent that they are inconsistent
with such rules; and
(B) with full recognition of the constitu-
tional right of either House to change the
rules (so far as relating to the procedure of
that House) at any time, in the same man-
ner, and to the same extent as in the case of
any other rule of that House.
(f) EFFECT OF JOINT RESOLUTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A major rule shall cease
to have force or effect if Congress enacts a
joint resolution repealing the major rule.
(2) LIMITATION ON SUBSEQUENT RULE-
MAKING.—A rule that ceases to have force or
effect under paragraph (1) may not be re-
issued in substantially the same form, and a
new rule that is substantially the same as
such a rule may not be issued, unless the re-
issued or new rule is specifically authorized
by a law enacted after the date of enactment
of the joint resolution repealing the original
rule.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.085 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5262 July 31, 2019
(g) FAILURE TO ENACT REDUCTIONS IN
SPENDING.—
(1) DETERMINATION.—On the date that is 61
days after the date on which the debt limit
is increased or a suspension of the debt limit
takes effect, the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget shall determine
whether legislation has been enacted elimi-
nating rules that reduces the direct cost of
Federal regulation during the 10-fiscal-year
period described in subsection (b)(1) by not
less than 15 percent of the amount of the in-
crease in the debt limit.
(2) INSUFFICIENT REDUCTIONS.—If the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget
determines that legislation has not been en-
acted that eliminates rules that reduces the
direct cost of Federal regulation during the
10-fiscal-year period described in subsection
(b)(1) by not less than 15 percent of the
amount of the increase in the debt limit, ef-
fective on the date of the determination, the
limitation in section 3101(b) of title 31,
United States Code, shall be equal to the
sum of the face amount of obligations issued
under chapter 31 of title 31, United States
Code, and the face amount of obligations
whose principal and interest are guaranteed
by the United States Government (except
guaranteed obligations held by the Secretary
of the Treasury) outstanding on the date of
the determination.
f
NOTICE OF INTENT TO OBJECT TO
PROCEEDING
I, Senator RON WYDEN, intend to ob-
ject to proceeding to S. 918, a bill to
prohibit the President or a Federal
agency from constructing, operating,
or offering wholesale or retail services
on broadband networks without au-
thorization from Congress, and for
other purposes, dated July 31, 2019 for
the reasons as stated in the RECORD.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 8
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND
FORESTRY
The Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, July 31, 2019, at 9:30
a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, July 31,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on
the nomination of Vice Admiral Mi-
chael M. Gilday, USN, to be Admiral
and Chief of Naval Operations, Depart-
ment of Defense.
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, July 31, 2019, at
10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Tuesday, July 30, 2019, at 2
p.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
The Committee on Finance is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, July 31, 2019, at
10:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing on the
following nominations: Brent James
McIntosh, of Michigan, to be an Under
Secretary, Brian Callanan, of New Jer-
sey, to be General Counsel, and Brian
McGuire, of New York, to be a Deputy
Under Secretary, all of the Department
of the Treasury, and Travis Greaves, of
the District of Columbia, to be a Judge
of the United States Tax Court,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, July
31, 2019, at 10:15 a.m., to conduct a
hearing.
COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS
The Committee on Indian Affairs is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, July 31,
2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing
on the following nominations: Sharon
Fast Gustafson, of Virginia, to be Gen-
eral Counsel, and Charlotte A. Bur-
rows, of the District of Columbia, to be
a Member, both of the Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity Commission.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, July 31,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing on
the nomination of W. Stephen
Muldrow, to be United States Attorney
for the District of Puerto Rico, Depart-
ment of Justice.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
have one request for a committee to
meet during today’s session of the Sen-
ate. It has the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committee is author-
ized to meet during today’s session of
the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, July 31,
2019, at a time to be determined, to
conduct a hearing on pending nomina-
tions.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that privileges
of the floor be granted to my interns
Christopher Brown, Finn Carnahan,
Ayden Kovol, Selma Matiashowski,
Elizabeth Mears, Kaeli Peltola, Kali
Spencer, Riley Vivlamore, Riley von
Borstel, Nicholas Schok, and Clare
Baldwin for today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
h
FOREIGN TRAVEL FINANCIAL REPORTS
In accordance with the appropriate provisions of law, the Secretary of the Senate herewith submits the following re-
ports for standing committees of the Senate, certain joint committees of the Congress, delegations and groups, and select
and special committees of the Senate, relating to expenses incurred in the performance of authorized foreign travel:
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE, NUTRITION, AND FORESTRY FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Jacqueline Cottrell:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,459.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,459.00
Senator Pat Roberts:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,459.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,459.00
Delegation Expenses: *
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 5,023.88 .................... 5,023.88
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 4,918.00 .................... .................... .................... 5,023.88 .................... 9,941.88
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR PAT ROBERTS,
Chairman, Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, July 11, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.085 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5263
July 31, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Richard Shelby:
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,620.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,620.00
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 2,988.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,988.00
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 288.79 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 288.79
Senator John Kennedy:
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,620.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,620.00
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 2,988.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,988.00
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 288.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 288.00
Senator John Boozman:
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,620.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,620.00
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 2,988.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,988.00
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 288.79 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 288.79
Shannon Hines:
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,620.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,620.00
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 2,988.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,988.00
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 288.79 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 288.79
Laura Friedel:
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,620.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,620.00
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 2,988.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,988.00
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 288.79 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 288.79
Senator Patrick Leahy:
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 401.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 401.09
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,505.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,505.00
Senator Lisa Murkowski:
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 401.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 401.09
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,537.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,537.00
Senator Tammy Baldwin:
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 401.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 401.09
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,537.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,537.00
John Tracy:
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 303.45 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 303.45
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,119.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,119.64
John Dowd:
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 401.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 401.09
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,439.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,439.00
Tim Rieser:
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 401.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 401.09
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,439.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,439.00
Garrett Boyle:
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 401.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 401.09
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,439.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,439.00
Blake Souter:
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 401.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 401.09
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,439.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,439.00
Kali Farahmand:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,267.22 .................... .................... .................... 2,267.22
India .......................................................................................................... Rupee ................................................... .................... 1,897.15 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,897.15
Paul Grove:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 15,705.83 .................... .................... .................... 15,705.83
Niger ......................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 316.91 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 316.91
Burkina Faso ............................................................................................ Franc .................................................... .................... 216.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 216.00
Mali ........................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 663.17 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 663.17
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 573.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 573.32
Adam Yezerski:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,206.73 .................... .................... .................... 6,206.73
Burkina Faso ............................................................................................ Franc .................................................... .................... 216.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 216.00
Mali ........................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 663.16 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 663.16
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 573.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 573.32
Sarita Vanka:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,409.03 .................... .................... .................... 4,409.03
Montenegro ............................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 178.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 178.00
Czech Republic ......................................................................................... Koruna .................................................. .................... 828.29 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 828.29
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 617.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 617.00
Georgia ...................................................................................................... Lari ....................................................... .................... 909.44 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 909.44
Paul Grove:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 11,674.13 .................... .................... .................... 11,674.13
Afghanistan .............................................................................................. Afghani ................................................. .................... 99.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 99.00
Pakistan .................................................................................................... Rupee ................................................... .................... 75.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 75.00
India .......................................................................................................... Rupee ................................................... .................... 930.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 930.00
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... 360.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 360.22
Sarita Vanka:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,671.13 .................... .................... .................... 12,671.13
Afghanistan .............................................................................................. Afghani ................................................. .................... 99.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 99.00
Pakistan .................................................................................................... Rupee ................................................... .................... 75.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 75.00
India .......................................................................................................... Rupee ................................................... .................... 930.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 930.00
Adam Yezerski:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,589.00 .................... .................... .................... 1,589.00
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Quetzal ................................................. .................... 459.44 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 459.44
El Salvador ............................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 440.10 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 440.10
Honduras ................................................................................................... Lempira ................................................ .................... 259.03 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 259.03
Katherine Jackson:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,468.67 .................... .................... .................... 2,468.67
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Quetzal ................................................. .................... 230.76 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 230.76
El Salvador ............................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 440.10 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 440.10
Honduras ................................................................................................... Lempira ................................................ .................... 259.03 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 259.03
Senator James Lankford:
Romania ................................................................................................... Leu ........................................................ .................... 192.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 192.75
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 565.02 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 565.02
Michelle Altman:
Romania ................................................................................................... Leu ........................................................ .................... 225.79 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 225.79
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 622.53 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 622.53
Senator John Boozman:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 200.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 200.00
Patrick Magnuson:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 200.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 200.00
Senator John Hoeven:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,099.03 .................... .................... .................... 7,099.03
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,143.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,143.00
Senator Susan Collins:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,906.03 .................... .................... .................... 3,906.03
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,055.55 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,055.55
Senator James Lankford:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,924.33 .................... .................... .................... 1,924.33
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,723.95 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,723.95
Patrick Magnuson:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,284.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,284.00
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.022 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5264 July 31, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Mike Wakefield:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,211.04 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,211.04
Senator Richard Shelby:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 6,017.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 6,017.00
Senator Patrick Leahy:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,541.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,541.00
Senator John Kennedy:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,541.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,541.00
Jonathan Graffeo:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,541.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,541.00
Anne Caldwell:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,541.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,541.00
Blair Taylor:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,541.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,541.00
Brennen Britton:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,541.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,541.00
Brian Potts:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,541.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,541.00
Caroline Canfield:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,544.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,544.00
Charles Kieffer:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,466.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,466.00
Kevin McDonald:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,541.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,541.00
Shannon Hines:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,541.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,541.00
John Steitz:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,541.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,541.00
Delegation Expenses: *
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 12,559.70 .................... 12,559.70
Delegation Expenses: *
India .......................................................................................................... Rupee ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 441.83 .................... 441.83
Delegation Expenses: *
Niger ......................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 99.25 .................... 99.25
Burkina Faso ............................................................................................ Franc .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 596.51 .................... 596.51
Mali ........................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,316.21 .................... 1,316.21
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 361.58 .................... 361.58
Delegation Expenses: *
Afghanistan .............................................................................................. Afghani ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 7,145.60 .................... 7,145.60
Pakistan .................................................................................................... Rupee ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 43.03 .................... 43.03
Delegation Expenses: *
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 9,470.50 .................... 9,470.50
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 29,079.50 .................... 29,079.50
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,041.66 .................... 4,041.66
Delegation Expenses: *
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,144.56 .................... 1,144.56
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 10,498.80 .................... 10,498.80
Delegation Expenses: *
Hungary ..................................................................................................... Forint .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 400.00 .................... 400.00
Romania ................................................................................................... Leu ........................................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,106.39 .................... 1,106.39
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,967.96 .................... 2,967.96
Delegation Expenses: *
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 661.00 .................... 661.00
Germany .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,567.73 .................... 2,567.73
Delegation Expenses: *
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 45,694.89 .................... 45,694.89
Delegation Expenses: *
Montenegro ............................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 32.00 .................... 32.00
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 429.47 .................... 429.47
Georgia ...................................................................................................... Lari ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 401.64 .................... 401.64
Delegation Expenses: *
Guatemala ................................................................................................ Quetzal ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 175.04 .................... 175.04
El Salvador ............................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 474.67 .................... 474.67
Honduras ................................................................................................... Lempira ................................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 444.86 .................... 444.86
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 122,217.95 .................... 69,921.13 .................... 132,154.38 .................... 324,293.46
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR RICHARD SHELBY,
Chairman, Committee on Appropriations, July 26, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Jack Reed:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,123.00 .................... .................... .................... 12,123.00
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 7.55 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 7.55
Michael Noblet:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,179.00 .................... .................... .................... 12,179.00
Afghanistan .............................................................................................. Afghani ................................................. .................... 13.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 13.00
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 16.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 16.00
Mariah McNamara:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,179.00 .................... .................... .................... 12,179.00
Afghanistan .............................................................................................. Afghani ................................................. .................... 45.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 45.00
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 20.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 20.00
Senator Jeanne Shaheen:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,123.00 .................... .................... .................... 12,123.00
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 7.55 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 7.55
Bryan Maxwell:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,123.00 .................... .................... .................... 12,123.00
Afghanistan .............................................................................................. Afghani ................................................. .................... 12.40 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 12.40
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 15.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 15.75
Senator Doug Jones:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,122.78 .................... .................... .................... 12,122.78
Afghanistan .............................................................................................. Afghani ................................................. .................... 12.40 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 12.40
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 8.20 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 8.20
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.022 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5265
July 31, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Cissy Jackson:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,122.78 .................... .................... .................... 12,122.78
Afghanistan .............................................................................................. Afghani ................................................. .................... 25.40 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 25.40
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 15.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 15.75
Senator Deb Fischer:
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 3,699.07 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,699.07
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,284.45 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,284.45
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 368.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 368.00
Joseph Hack:
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 3,626.44 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,626.44
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,264.45 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,264.45
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 368.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 368.00
Delegation Expenses: *
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,258.77 .................... 3,497.23 .................... 7,756.00
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,011.23 .................... 2,011.23
Senator Mazie K. Hirono:
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 298.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 298.32
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,260.40 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,260.40
Jed D’Ercole:
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 215.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 215.09
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,042.42 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,042.42
Senator Tim Kaine:
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 302.15 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 302.15
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,238.05 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,238.05
Ryan Colvert:
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 276.10 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 276.10
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,057.40 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,057.40
Delegation Expenses: *
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 572.28 .................... 572.28
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 5,249.40 .................... 5,249.40
Senator Rick Scott:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,761.33 .................... .................... .................... 8,761.33
Panama ..................................................................................................... Balboa .................................................. .................... 196.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 196.33
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 554.92 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 554.92
Argentina .................................................................................................. Peso ...................................................... .................... 603.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 603.32
Paul Bonicelli:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,761.33 .................... .................... .................... 8,761.33
Panama ..................................................................................................... Balboa .................................................. .................... 196.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 196.33
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 578.18 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 578.18
Argentina .................................................................................................. Peso ...................................................... .................... 617.57 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 617.57
Christine Diaz:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,949.13 .................... .................... .................... 4,949.13
Panama ..................................................................................................... Balboa .................................................. .................... 196.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 196.33
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 629.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 629.09
Argentina .................................................................................................. Peso ...................................................... .................... 609.55 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 609.55
Craig Carbone:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,591.61 .................... .................... .................... 5,591.61
Panama ..................................................................................................... Balboa .................................................. .................... 206.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 206.33
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 594.68 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 594.68
Argentina .................................................................................................. Peso ...................................................... .................... 636.62 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 636.62
Juan Arias:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,591.61 .................... .................... .................... 5,591.61
Panama ..................................................................................................... Balboa .................................................. .................... 203.33 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 203.33
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 542.17 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 542.17
Argentina .................................................................................................. Peso ...................................................... .................... 676.26 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 676.26
Delegation Expenses: *
Panama ..................................................................................................... Balboa .................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 676.01 .................... 676.01
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 882.00 .................... 882.00
Argentina .................................................................................................. Peso ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,855.92 .................... 1,855.92
Senator Tammy Duckworth:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,771.63 .................... .................... .................... 8,771.63
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 61.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 61.00
Matt Lampert:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,771.63 .................... .................... .................... 8,771.63
Aline Sredni:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,771.63 .................... .................... .................... 8,771.63
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 29.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 29.00
Sindi Abdulla:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,771.63 .................... .................... .................... 8,771.63
Senator Rick Scott:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,952.33 .................... .................... .................... 1,952.33
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 476.66 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 476.66
Craig Carbone:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,183.33 .................... .................... .................... 2,183.33
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 499.63 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 499.63
Juan Arias:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,183.83 .................... .................... .................... 2,183.83
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 516.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 516.13
Delegation Expenses: *
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 888.00 .................... 888.00
Senator Angus S. King, Jr.:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,093.03 .................... .................... .................... 9,093.03
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 405.92 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 405.92
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,688.94 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,688.94
Stephen M. Smith:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,098.13 .................... .................... .................... 9,098.13
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 492.59 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 492.59
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,750.12 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,750.12
Senator Marsha Blackburn:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 18,887.43 .................... .................... .................... 18,887.43
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 318.41 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 318.41
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,722.28 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,722.28
Emily Manning:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,129.40 .................... .................... .................... 9,129.40
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 477.15 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 477.15
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,847.55 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,847.55
Senator Tammy Duckworth:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,092.93 .................... .................... .................... 9,092.93
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 405.92 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 405.92
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,711.69 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,711.69
Matt Lampert:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,092.93 .................... .................... .................... 9,092.93
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 405.92 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 405.92
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,794.70 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,794.70
Kelsey Becker:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,092.93 .................... .................... .................... 9,092.93
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.022 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5266 July 31, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 405.92 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 405.92
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,794.70 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,794.70
Dustin Walker:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,141.33 .................... .................... .................... 4,141.33
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 538.42 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 538.42
Delegation Expenses: *
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,672.04 .................... 617.78 .................... 5,289.82
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,529.00 .................... .................... .................... 3,529.00
Senator Roger Wicker:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,410.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,410.00
Jennifer Jett:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,260.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,260.00
Senator Deb Fischer:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,944.37 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,944.37
Senator Martha McSally:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,940.25 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,940.25
Senator Rick Scott:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,244.43 .................... .................... .................... 4,244.43
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 457.92 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 457.92
Jackie Schutz Zeckman:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 457.92 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 457.92
Senator Josh Hawley:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,768.00 .................... .................... .................... 3,768.00
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 719.05 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 719.05
Richard Trimble:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,768.00 .................... .................... .................... 3,768.00
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 648.43 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 648.43
Senator Angus S. King, Jr.:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,906.03 .................... .................... .................... 3,906.03
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 532.82 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 532.82
Stephen M. Smith:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,567.12 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,567.12
Delegation Expenses: *
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,471.76 .................... 9,623.76 .................... 20,095.52
Senator Doug Jones:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,541.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,541.00
Delegation Expenses: *
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,629.37 .................... 2,629.37
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 58,361.88 .................... 276,279.72 .................... 28,502.98 .................... 363,144.58
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR JAMES INHOFE,
Chairman, Committee on Armed Services, July 24, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN AFFAIRS FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Mike Crapo:
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,601.67 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,601.67
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 2,859.34 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,859.34
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 487.36 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 487.36
Gregg Richard:
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,058.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,058.00
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 2,476.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,476.00
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 313.79 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 313.79
Susan Wheeler:
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,534.28 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,534.28
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 2,902.28 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,902.28
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 203.07 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 203.07
Joe McKeown:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 1,191.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,191.64
Senator Tim Scott:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 1,191.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,191.64
Delegation Expenses: *
New Zealand ............................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 5,682.30 .................... 5,682.30
Australia ................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 17,447.70 .................... 17,447.70
Fiji ............................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,424.99 .................... 2,424.99
Delegation Expenses: *
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,201.86 .................... 2,201.86
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 15,819.07 .................... 0.00 .................... 27,756.85 .................... 43,575.92
Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR MIKE CRAPO,
Chairman, Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs,
July 26, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Curtis Swager:
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 968.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 968.00
Taiwan ...................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 335.66 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 335.66
Delegation Expenses: *
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 214.66 .................... .................... .................... 214.66
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.022 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5267
July 31, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Taiwan ...................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 133.67 .................... 133.67
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 1,303.66 .................... 214.66 .................... 133.67 .................... 1,651.99
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR ROGER F. WICKER,
Chairman, Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
July 22, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL RESOURCES FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1, 2019 TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Lisa Murkowski:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,103.73 .................... .................... .................... 6,103.73
Finland ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 272.53 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 272.53
Isaac Edwards:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 15,830.53 .................... .................... .................... 15,830.53
China ........................................................................................................ Yuan ..................................................... .................... 585.25 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 585.25
Senator Lisa Murkowski:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 15,830.53 .................... .................... .................... 15,830.53
China ........................................................................................................ Yuan ..................................................... .................... 583.25 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 583.25
Delegation Expenses *
China ........................................................................................................ Yuan ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,039.00 .................... 1,039.00
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 1,441.03 .................... 37,764.79 .................... 1,039.00 .................... 40,244.82
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR LISA MURKOWSKI,
Chairman, Committee on Energy and Natural Resources,
July 25, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse:
Greenland ................................................................................................. Euro ...................................................... .................... 165.71 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 165.71
Norway ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 78.65 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 78.65
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... 213.05 .................... 400.00 .................... .................... .................... 613.05
Iceland ...................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 250.00 .................... 193.34 .................... .................... .................... 443.34
Delegation Expenses: *
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Pound ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 468.38 .................... 468.38
Evan Dernberger:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,255.20 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,255.20
Joseph Colby:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,239.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,239.00
Delegation Expenses: *
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 5,023.88 .................... 5,023.88
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 5,201.61 .................... 593.34 .................... 5,492.26 .................... 11,287.21
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR JOHN BARRASSO,
Chairman, Committee on Environment and Public Works, July 26, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON FINANCE FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Tim Scott:
Argentina .................................................................................................. Peso ...................................................... .................... 798.60 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 798.60
Brazil ......................................................................................................... Real ...................................................... .................... 710.39 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 710.39
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 503.87 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 503.87
Delegation Expenses: *
Argentina .................................................................................................. Peso ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 374.35 .................... 374.35
Brazil ......................................................................................................... Real ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,202.86 .................... 2,202.86
Colombia ................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 858.00 .................... 858.00
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 968.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 968.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,906.03 .................... .................... .................... 3,906.03
Joshua Karetny:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,612.62 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,612.62
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 3,906.13 .................... .................... .................... 3,906.13
Delegation Expenses: *
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 5,023.88 .................... 5,023.88
Senator Debbie Stabenow:
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 251.03 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 251.03
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,287.27 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,287.27
Matthew Williams:
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 215.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 215.09
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.022 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5268 July 31, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON FINANCE FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,020.24 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,020.24
Delegation Expenses: *
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 286.14 .................... 286.14
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,624.70 .................... 2,624.70
Jayme White:
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 1,117.51 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,117.51
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 466.88 .................... .................... .................... 466.88
Greta Peisch:
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 912.57 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 912.57
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 501.75 .................... .................... .................... 501.75
Nasim Fussell:
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 1,087.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,087.13
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 466.88 .................... .................... .................... 466.88
Brian Bombassaro:
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 1,067.21 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,067.21
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 466.88 .................... .................... .................... 466.88
Delegation Expenses: *
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 927.00 .................... 927.00
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 11,551.53 .................... 9,714.55 .................... 12,296.93 .................... 33,563.01
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR CHUCK GRASSLEY,
Chairman, Committee on Finance, July 23, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator John Barrasso:
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 362.43 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 362.43
Cote D’Ivoire ............................................................................................. CFA Franc ............................................. .................... 631.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 631.32
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Rwandan Franc .................................... .................... 343.47 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 343.47
Tunisia ...................................................................................................... Tunisian Dinar ...................................... .................... 224.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 224.00
Portugal .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 455.64 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 455.64
Senator Christopher Coons:
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 326.63 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 326.63
Cote D’Ivoire ............................................................................................. CFA Franc ............................................. .................... 626.76 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 626.76
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Rwandan Franc .................................... .................... 139.63 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 139.63
Thomas Mancinelli:
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euros .................................................... .................... 526.63 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 526.63
Cote D’Ivoire ............................................................................................. CFA Franc ............................................. .................... 688.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 688.13
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Rwandan Franc .................................... .................... 200.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 200.00
Delegation Expenses: *
Cote D’Ivoire ............................................................................................. CFA Franc ............................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,537.79 .................... 1,537.79
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Rwandan Franc .................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,760.46 .................... 1,760.46
Tunisia ...................................................................................................... Tunisian Dinar ...................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 508.46 .................... 508.46
Portugal .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 675.00 .................... 675.00
Senator John Barrasso:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,078.45 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,078.45
Senator Benjamin Cardin:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,478.70 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,478.70
Debbie Yamada:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,314.12 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,314.12
Delegation Expenses: *
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 7,535.81 .................... 7,535.81
Senator Christopher Coons:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,034.41 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,034.41
Korea ......................................................................................................... Won ....................................................... .................... 490.71 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 490.71
China ........................................................................................................ Renminbi .............................................. .................... 770.03 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 770.03
Taiwan ...................................................................................................... New Taiwan Dollar ............................... .................... 351.66 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 351.66
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,892.68 .................... .................... .................... 8,892.68
Thomas Mancinelli:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,134.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,134.09
Korea ......................................................................................................... Won ....................................................... .................... 540.79 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 540.79
China ........................................................................................................ Renminbi .............................................. .................... 790.88 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 790.88
Taiwan ...................................................................................................... New Taiwan Dollar ............................... .................... 351.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 351.52
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,892.68 .................... .................... .................... 8,892.68
Delegation Expenses: *
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,004.07 .................... 2,004.07
Korea ......................................................................................................... Won ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 408.50 .................... 408.50
China ........................................................................................................ Renminbi .............................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,553.50 .................... 1,553.50
Taiwan ...................................................................................................... New Taiwan Dollar ............................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 446.92 .................... 446.92
Senator Cory Gardner:
Singapore .................................................................................................. Singapore dollar ................................... .................... 693.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 693.00
Taiwan ...................................................................................................... Taiwan Dollar ....................................... .................... 207.67 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 207.67
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,623.23 .................... .................... .................... 7,623.23
Igor Khrestin:
Singapore .................................................................................................. Singapore dollar ................................... .................... 645.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 645.00
Taiwan ...................................................................................................... Taiwan Dollar ....................................... .................... 156.66 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 156.66
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 10,287.03 .................... .................... .................... 10,287.03
Delegation Expenses: *
Singapore .................................................................................................. Singapore dollar ................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 429.33 .................... 429.33
Taiwan ...................................................................................................... Taiwan Dollar ....................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 267.34 .................... 267.34
Senator Johnny Isakson:
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 122.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 122.22
Qatar ......................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 633.82 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 633.82
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,728.53 .................... .................... .................... 8,728.53
Tommy Nguyen:
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 122.22 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 122.22
Qatar ......................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 434.65 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 434.65
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,728.53 .................... .................... .................... 8,728.53
Delegation Expenses: *
Qatar ......................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 123.63 .................... 123.63
Senator Ron Johnson:
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 598.96 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 598.96
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 11,910.33 .................... .................... .................... 11,910.33
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.022 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5269
July 31, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Lydia Westlake:
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 635.59 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 635.59
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,645.33 .................... .................... .................... 12,645.33
Delegation Expenses: *
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 217.81 .................... 217.81
Senator Ron Johnson:
Czech Republic ......................................................................................... Koruna .................................................. .................... 7.55 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 7.55
Slovak Republic ........................................................................................ Euro ...................................................... .................... 394.40 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 394.40
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,230.53 .................... .................... .................... 12,230.53
Lydia Westlake:
Czech Republic ......................................................................................... Koruna .................................................. .................... 7.55 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 7.55
Slovak Republic ........................................................................................ Euro ...................................................... .................... 412.17 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 412.17
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,230.53 .................... .................... .................... 12,230.53
Delegation Expenses: *
Czech Republic ......................................................................................... Koruna .................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 403.55 .................... 403.55
Slovak Republic ........................................................................................ Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 347.84 .................... 347.84
Senator Robert Menendez:
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,596.45 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,596.45
Greece ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 847.31 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 847.31
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 12,335.83 .................... .................... .................... 12,335.83
Damian Murphy:
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,151.31 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,151.31
Greece ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,567.84 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,567.84
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,181.83 .................... .................... .................... 13,181.83
Delegation Expenses: *
Cyprus ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 390.81 .................... 390.81
Greece ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,847.00 .................... 1,847.00
Senator Christopher Murphy:
Israel ......................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 775.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 775.00
Jordan ....................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 877.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 877.75
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,018.00 .................... .................... .................... 13,018.00
Jessica Elledge:
Israel ......................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 960.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 960.00
Jordan ....................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 676.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 676.75
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,018.00 .................... .................... .................... 13,018.00
Senator Mitt Romney:
Israel ......................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 785.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 785.00
Jordan ....................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,281.90 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,281.90
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,217.13 .................... .................... .................... 13,217.13
Mitt Waldrip:
Israel ......................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 785.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 785.00
Jordan ....................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,281.90 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,281.90
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,217.13 .................... .................... .................... 13,217.13
Delegation Expenses: *
Israel ......................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,863.49 .................... 4,863.49
Jordan ....................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,451.16 .................... 2,451.16
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 15,132.00 .................... 15,132.00
Senator Rob Portman:
Korea ......................................................................................................... Won ....................................................... .................... 424.18 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 424.18
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,541.67 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,541.67
Wayne Jones:
Korea ......................................................................................................... Won ....................................................... .................... 326.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 326.09
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,419.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,419.00
Senator Tom Udall:
Korea ......................................................................................................... Won ....................................................... .................... 426.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 426.09
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,637.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,637.00
Matthew Padilla:
Korea ......................................................................................................... Won ....................................................... .................... 426.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 426.09
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,539.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,539.00
Delegation Expenses: *
Korea ......................................................................................................... Won ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 572.28 .................... 572.28
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 5,249.40 .................... 5,249.40
Senator Rob Portman:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,297.49 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,297.49
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 534.97 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 534.97
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,939.93 .................... .................... .................... 5,939.93
Mark Isakowtiz:
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,194.40 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,194.40
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... 342.49 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 342.49
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 9,480.33 .................... .................... .................... 9,480.33
Delegation Expenses: *
United Kingdom ........................................................................................ DEuro .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 194.05 .................... 194.05
Ukraine ...................................................................................................... Hryvnia ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,232.69 .................... 2,232.69
Sarah Arkin:
Qatar ......................................................................................................... Riyal ..................................................... .................... 1,067.32 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,067.32
Oman ........................................................................................................ Riyal ..................................................... .................... 870.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 870.13
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,373.46 .................... .................... .................... 6,373.46
Delegation Expenses: *
Qatar ......................................................................................................... Riyal ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 178.58 .................... 178.58
Oman ........................................................................................................ Riyal ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 178.07 .................... 178.07
Christopher Barr:
Egypt ......................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 837.67 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 837.67
Tunisia ...................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 387.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 387.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,922.83 .................... .................... .................... 5,922.83
Delegation Expenses: *
Egypt ......................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 37.79 .................... 37.79
Tunisia ...................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 99.44 .................... 99.44
Joan Condon:
Mozambique .............................................................................................. Metical .................................................. .................... 1,245.60 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,245.60
South Africa .............................................................................................. Rand ..................................................... .................... 247.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 247.75
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,707.85 .................... .................... .................... 7,707.85
Margaret Dougherty:
Mozambique .............................................................................................. Metical .................................................. .................... 1,245.60 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,245.60
South Africa .............................................................................................. Rand ..................................................... .................... 247.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 247.75
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,707.85 .................... .................... .................... 7,707.85
Delegation Expenses: *
Mozambique .............................................................................................. Metical .................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,958.47 .................... 1,958.47
Brian Cullen:
Kenya ........................................................................................................ Shilling ................................................. .................... 909.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 909.50
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,259.73 .................... .................... .................... 7,259.73
Heather Flynn:
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... 1,777.05 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,777.05
Kenya ........................................................................................................ Shilling ................................................. .................... 982.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 982.50
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,383.43 .................... .................... .................... 7,383.43
Delegation Expenses: *
Kenya ........................................................................................................ Shilling ................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,000.00 .................... 1,000.00
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.022 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5270 July 31, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Andrew Keller:
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 1,451.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,451.00
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 631.60 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 631.60
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,807.33 .................... .................... .................... 2,807.33
Charlotte Oldham-Moore:
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... 2,313.10 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,313.10
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,469.53 .................... .................... .................... 7,469.53
Margot Hecht:
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... 2,616.71 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,616.71
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,469.53 .................... .................... .................... 7,469.53
Delegation Expenses: *
Ethiopia ..................................................................................................... Birr ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 644.24 .................... 644.24
Christopher Socha:
Oman ........................................................................................................ Rial ....................................................... .................... 791.17 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 791.17
Saudi Arabia ............................................................................................. Riyal ..................................................... .................... 1,053.60 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,053.60
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,300.49 .................... .................... .................... 6,300.49
Delegation Expenses: *
Oman ........................................................................................................ Rial ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 121.44 .................... 121.44
Christopher Socha:
Hong Kong ................................................................................................ Hong Kong Dollar ................................. .................... 1,112.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,112.00
Singapore .................................................................................................. Singapore Dollar ................................... .................... 1,820.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,820.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,251.13 .................... .................... .................... 4,251.13
Lara Crouch:
Hong Kong ................................................................................................ Hong Kong Dollar ................................. .................... 1,001.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,001.00
Singapore .................................................................................................. Singapore Dollar ................................... .................... 1,327.20 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,327.20
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 4,216.13 .................... .................... .................... 4,216.13
Delegation Expenses: *
Hong Kong ................................................................................................ Hong Kong Dollar ................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,304.85 .................... 1,304.85
Rolfe Michael Schiffer:
Hong Kong ................................................................................................ Hong Kong Dollar ................................. .................... 1,112.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,112.00
Thailand .................................................................................................... Bhat ...................................................... .................... 237.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 237.52
Malaysia .................................................................................................... Rupiah .................................................. .................... 574.41 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 574.41
Singapore .................................................................................................. Singapore Dollar ................................... .................... 1,525.50 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,525.50
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... 95.18 .................... .................... .................... 95.18
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,817.83 .................... .................... .................... 6,817.83
Thomas Mancinelli:
Thailand .................................................................................................... Bhat ...................................................... .................... 176.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 176.00
Malaysia .................................................................................................... Rinngit .................................................. .................... 364.26 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 364.26
Singapore .................................................................................................. Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,526.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,526.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,400.83 .................... .................... .................... 7,400.83
Megan Bartley:
Singapore .................................................................................................. Singapore Dollar ................................... .................... 2,388.53 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,388.53
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... 48.00 .................... .................... .................... 48.00
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 6,001.63 .................... .................... .................... 6,001.63
Delegation Expenses: *
Hong Kong ................................................................................................ Hong Kong Dollar ................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 318.88 .................... 318.88
Thailand .................................................................................................... Bhat ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 173.16 .................... 173.16
Malaysia .................................................................................................... Rupiah .................................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 26.43 .................... 26.43
Lowell Schwartz:
Canada ..................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 539.28 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 539.28
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,861.57 .................... .................... .................... 1,861.57
Brandon Yoder:
Canada ..................................................................................................... Dollaro .................................................. .................... 602.90 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 602.90
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 1,861.57 .................... .................... .................... 1,861.57
Hannah Thoburn:
Germany .................................................................................................... Euros .................................................... .................... 895.75 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 895.75
Belgium ..................................................................................................... Euros .................................................... .................... 367.79 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 367.79
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,627.63 .................... .................... .................... 2,627.63
Delegation Expenses: *
Germany .................................................................................................... Euros .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 892.17 .................... 892.17
Montenegro ............................................................................................... Euros .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 57.00 .................... 57.00
Total: .................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 79,871.33 .................... 297,161.11 .................... 58,143.41 .................... 435,175.85
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR JAMES RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations, July 26, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY & GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Maggie Hassan:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,782.28 .................... .................... .................... 7,782.28
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,249.68 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,249.68
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 502.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 502.00
China ........................................................................................................ Renminbi .............................................. .................... 492.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 492.00
Taiwan ...................................................................................................... New Dollar ............................................ .................... 526.05 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 526.05
David Christie:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 7,782.28 .................... .................... .................... 7,782.28
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... 1,167.88 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,167.88
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 602.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 602.00
China ........................................................................................................ Renminbi .............................................. .................... 458.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 458.00
Taiwan ...................................................................................................... New Dollar ............................................ .................... 426.05 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 426.05
Delegation Expenses:
Japan ........................................................................................................ Yen ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,004.07 .................... 2,004.07
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 408.51 .................... 408.51
China ........................................................................................................ Renminbi .............................................. .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,553.50 .................... 1,553.50
Taiwan ...................................................................................................... New Dollar ............................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 446.93 .................... 446.93
Megan Reiss:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 11,902.63 .................... .................... .................... 11,902.63
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... 656.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 656.00
Jordan ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 857.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 857.00
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... ....................
Delegtion Expenses: *
Israel ......................................................................................................... Shekel ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,215.87 .................... 1,215.87
Jordan ....................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 612.79 .................... 612.79
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.022 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5271
July 31, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY & GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... ....................
Senator Maggie Hassan:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,280.25 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,280.25
Senator Jacky Rosen:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,240.28 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,240.28
Meg Platt:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,228.30 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,228.30
Robert Waisanen:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,276.41 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,276.41
Delegation Expenses: *
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 10,047.76 .................... 10,047.76
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 19,961.90 .................... 27,467.19 .................... 16,289.43 .................... 63,718.52
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR RON JOHNSON,
Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security & Governmental Affairs,
July 25, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse:
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,537.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,537.00
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 401.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 401.09
Chris Mewett:
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... 1,537.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,537.00
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... 401.09 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 401.09
Senator Lindsey Graham:
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 187.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 187.00
Cote D’lvoire ............................................................................................. Franc .................................................... .................... 815.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 815.13
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 248.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 248.00
Tunisia ...................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 338.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 338.35
Portugal .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 220.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 220.00
Senator Ben Sasse:
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 187.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 187.00
Cote D’lvoire ............................................................................................. Franc .................................................... .................... 815.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 815.13
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 248.30 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 248.30
Tunisia ...................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 338.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 338.35
Portugal .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 220.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 220.00
Alice James:
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 187.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 187.00
Cote D’lvoire ............................................................................................. Franc .................................................... .................... 815.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 815.13
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 248.30 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 248.30
Tunisia ...................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 338.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 338.35
Portugal .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 220.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 220.00
Matt Rimkus:
Italy ........................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 187.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 187.00
Cote D’lvoire ............................................................................................. Franc .................................................... .................... 815.13 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 815.13
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... 248.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 248.00
Tunisia ...................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... 338.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 338.35
Portugal .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 220.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 220.00
Delegation Expenses: *
Vietnam ..................................................................................................... Dong ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,624.70 .................... 2,624.70
South Korea .............................................................................................. Won ....................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 286.14 .................... 286.14
Cote D’lvoire ............................................................................................. Franc .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,392.12 .................... 2,392.12
Rwanda ..................................................................................................... Franc .................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,053.84 .................... 2,053.84
Tunisia ...................................................................................................... Dinar ..................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,033.84 .................... 2,033.84
Portugal .................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,700.00 .................... 2,700.00
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 11,110.70 .................... .................... .................... 12,090.64 .................... 23,201.34
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR LINDSEY GRAHAM,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary, July 15, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR, AND PENSIONS FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
David Cleary:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,459.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,459.00
Delegation Expenses: *
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,511.94 .................... 2,511.94
Total .......................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 2,459.00 .................... .................... .................... 2,511.94 .................... 4,970.94
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR LAMAR ALEXANDER,
Chairman, Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions,
July 26, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.022 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5272 July 31, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Senator Johnny Isakson:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 3,440.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 3,440.00
Senator John Boozman:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,284.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,284.00
Adam Reece:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,459.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,459.00
Patrick McGuigan:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,459.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,459.00
Robyn Engibous:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,459.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,459.00
Tommy Nguyen:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 2,943.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 2,943.00
Delegation Expenses: *
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 15,071.64 .................... 15,071.64
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 16,044.00 .................... .................... .................... 15,071.64 .................... 31,115.64
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR JOHNNY ISAKSON,
Chairman, Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, July 23, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), MAJORITY LEADER FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Robert Karem:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 14,694.03 .................... .................... .................... 14,694.03
Azerbaijan ................................................................................................. Manat ................................................... .................... 455.36 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 455.36
Georgia ...................................................................................................... Lari ....................................................... .................... 569.92 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 569.92
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... 764.08 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 764.08
Anmol Jay Khosla:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 466.88 .................... .................... .................... 466.88
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,142.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,142.00
Dr. Brian Monahan:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,335.91 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,335.91
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 7,267.27 .................... 15,160.91 .................... .................... .................... 22,428.18
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR MITCH McCONNELL,
Majority Leader, July 29, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), DEMOCRATIC LEADER FOR TRAVEL FROM APR. 1 TO JUNE 30, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Brian Monahan:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 8,607.93 .................... .................... .................... 8,607.93
Iraq ........................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 122.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 122.00
Michael Kuiken:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 5,545.63 .................... .................... .................... 5,545.63
Georgia ...................................................................................................... Lari ....................................................... .................... 666.16 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 666.16
Turkey ........................................................................................................ Lira ....................................................... .................... 756.58 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 756.58
Robert Gardner:
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 466.75 .................... .................... .................... 466.75
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Dollar .................................................... .................... 1,110.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,110.00
Gary Myrick:
France ....................................................................................................... Euro ...................................................... .................... 4,541.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 4,541.00
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 7,195.74 .................... 14,620.31 .................... .................... .................... 21,816.05
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR CHARLES SCHUMER,
Democratic Leader, July 26, 2019.
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), SENATE CAUCUS ON INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Donald Bergin:
Panama ..................................................................................................... Balboa .................................................. .................... 484.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 484.00
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 1,085.35 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,085.35
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,909.63 .................... .................... .................... 2,909.63
Scott Reber:
Panama ..................................................................................................... Balboa .................................................. .................... 435.62 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 435.62
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 786.20 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 786.20
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,909.63 .................... .................... .................... 2,909.63
Kelly Lieupo:
Panama ..................................................................................................... Balboa .................................................. .................... 299.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 299.00
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 1,066.52 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,066.52
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.022 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5273
July 31, 2019
CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, UNDER AUTHORITY OF SEC. 22, P.L. 95–384—22
U.S.C. 1754(b), SENATE CAUCUS ON INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL FOR TRAVEL FROM JAN. 1 TO MAR. 31, 2019—Continued
Name and country Name of currency
Per diem Transportation Miscellaneous Total
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,909.63 .................... .................... .................... 2,909.63
Eduardo Hilera:
Panama ..................................................................................................... Balboa .................................................. .................... 433.62 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 433.62
Mexico ....................................................................................................... Peso ...................................................... .................... 801.39 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 801.39
United States ............................................................................................ Dollar .................................................... .................... .................... .................... 2,909.63 .................... .................... .................... 2,909.63
Total ..................................................................................................... ............................................................... .................... 5,391.70 .................... 11,638.52 .................... .................... .................... 17,030.22
* Delegation expenses include official expenses reimbursed to the Department of State, under the authority of Sec. 502(b) of the Mutual Security Act of 1954, as amended by Sec. 22 of P.L. 95–384, and may include S. Res. 179 funds
agreed to May 25, 1977.
SENATOR JOHN CORNYN,
Senate Caucus on International Narcotics Control, July 10, 2019.
h
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to executive session for the
consideration of Calendar Nos. 370 and
393; that the nominations be confirmed;
that the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate;
that no further motions be in order;
that any statement related to the
nominations be printed in the RECORD;
and that the President be immediately
notified of the Senate’s actions.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The nominations considered and con-
firmed are as follows:
IN THE COAST GUARD
The following named officers for appoint-
ment in the United States Coast Guard to
the grade indicated under title 14, U.S.C.,
section 212l(d):
To be rear admiral
Rear Adm. (lh) Melvin W. Bouboulis
Rear Adm. (lh) Donna L. Cottrell
Rear Adm. (lh) Michael J. Johnston
Rear Adm. (lh) Eric C. Jones
Rear Adm. (lh) Michael P. Ryan
The following named officer for appoint-
ment to serve as the Director of the Coast
Guard Reserve in the grade indicated under
title 14, U.S.C., section 309(b):
To be rear admiral (lower half)
Rear Adm. Todd C. Wiemers
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of Cal-
endar Nos. 376 through 380, and all
nominations on the Secretary’s desk in
the Air Force, Army, Marine Corps,
and Navy; that the nominations be
confirmed; that the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate; that no further motions be in
order; that any statements related to
the nominations be printed in the
RECORD; and that the President be im-
mediately notified of the Senate’s ac-
tions.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The nominations considered and con-
firmed are as follows:
IN THE AIR FORCE
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Air Force to the
grade indicated while assigned to a position
of importance and responsibility under title
10, U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. Mary F. O’Brien
IN THE ARMY
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Lt. Gen. Bryan P. Fenton
The following named officer for appoint-
ment in the United States Army to the grade
indicated while assigned to a position of im-
portance and responsibility under title 10,
U.S.C., section 601:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. Ronald J. Place
The following named Army National Guard
of the United States officer for appointment
in the Reserve of the Army to the grade indi-
cated under title 10, U.S.C., sections 12203
and 12211:
To be brigadier general
Col. Robert T. Wooldridge, II
IN THE MARINE CORPS
The following named officer for appoint-
ment as Commander, Marine Forces reserve,
and appointment to the grade indicated in
the United States Marine Corps Reserve
while assigned to a position of importance
and responsibility under title 10, U.S.C., sec-
tions 601 and 8084:
To be lieutenant general
Maj. Gen. David G. Bellon
NOMINATIONS PLACED ON THE SECRETARY’S
DESK
IN THE AIR FORCE
PN653 AIR FORCE nominations (198) begin-
ning MARK C. ALDERMAN, and ending
DENEAN V. E. ZOZO, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of April 29, 2019.
PN868 AIR FORCE nomination of Robert
K. Rankin, Jr., which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of June 18, 2019.
PN869 AIR FORCE nomination of Judy A.
Rattan, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
June 18, 2019.
PN871 AIR FORCE nominations (2) begin-
ning GAYLAN A. GRAY, and ending JOR-
DAN H. LINDEKE, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of June 18, 2019.
PN872 AIR FORCE nominations (134) begin-
ning HANS ERIC ANKER, and ending BRIAN
DOUGLAS ZULLO, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of June 18, 2019.
PN907 AIR FORCE nomination of John W.
Poulter, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
July 8, 2019.
PN908 AIR FORCE nomination of Thomas
D. Ausherman, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of July 8, 2019.
PN909 AIR FORCE nominations (3) begin-
ning EDWARD J. BRENNAN, and ending
KENNETH A. STREMMEL, which nomina-
tions were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of July 8,
2019.
PN910 AIR FORCE nominations (3) begin-
ning LAUREN A. BAKER, and ending JESSE
W. JOHNSON, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of July 8, 2019.
PN911 AIR FORCE nominations (15) begin-
ning JONATHAN D. BARNES, and ending
JEREMIAH P. SEXTON, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of July 8, 2019.
IN THE ARMY
PN873 ARMY nomination of Larry D.
Crowder, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
June 18, 2019.
PN874 ARMY nominations (4) beginning
JASON B. BARIATTI, and ending MARK A.
PATTERSON, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of June 18, 2019.
PN875 ARMY nomination of Roger M.
Lewis, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of
June 18, 2019.
PN876 ARMY nominations (2) beginning
THELMA D. CUMMINGS, and ending
KYUNGKUN LEE, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of June 18, 2019.
PN912 ARMY nomination of Joshua S. An-
derson, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
July 8, 2019.
PN913 ARMY nomination of Joseph P.
Blakeney, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
July 8, 2019.
PN914 ARMY nomination of Patrick D.
Clary, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of July
8, 2019.
PN915 ARMY nomination of Marie P.
Corpuz, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
July 8, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.022 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5274 July 31, 2019
PN916 ARMY nomination of Ernest M.
Dorema, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
July 8, 2019.
PN917 ARMY nomination of Simone M.
Edwards, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
July 8, 2019.
PN918 ARMY nomination of Luciano G.
Mizerani, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
July 8, 2019.
PN919 ARMY nomination of Rochelle S.
Pressley, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
July 8, 2019.
PN920 ARMY nomination of Howard G.
Rice, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of July
8, 2019.
PN921 ARMY nomination of Virginia L.
Egli, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of July
8, 2019.
PN922 ARMY nomination of Darren K. Pur-
cell, which was received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of July
8, 2019.
PN923 ARMY nominations (317) beginning
JOSEPH R. ADAMS, and ending LIANG
ZHOU, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of July 8, 2019.
PN924 ARMY nominations (93) beginning
RYAN H. ALLRED, and ending ANNA YOO,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of July 8, 2019.
PN925 ARMY nominations (46) beginning
KEITH J. ANDREWS, and ending JEFFREY
T. WHORTON, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of July 8, 2019.
IN THE MARINE CORPS
PN880 MARINE CORPS nomination of
Timothy K. Gallagher, Jr., which was re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of June 18, 2019.
PN881 MARINE CORPS nomination of Kyle
A. Ugone, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
June 18, 2019.
PN882 MARINE CORPS nomination of
Sean M. Williams, which was received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record of June 18, 2019.
PN884 MARINE CORPS nomination of
Christopher D. McLin, which was received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of June 18, 2019.
IN THE NAVY
PN877 NAVY nomination of Christopher M.
Johnson, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
June 18, 2019.
PN878 NAVY nomination of Benny P.
Volkmann, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
June 18, 2019.
PN879 NAVY nomination of Eric A.
Polonsky, which was received by the Senate
and appeared in the Congressional Record of
June 18, 2019.
PN926 NAVY nominations (132) beginning
VINCENT L. ACKERMAN, and ending
JAMES L. ZIMMERMAN, which nomina-
tions were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of July 8,
2019.
PN927 NAVY nominations (37) beginning
RICARDO M. ABAKAH, and ending YU
ZHENG, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of July 8, 2019.
PN928 NAVY nominations (56) beginning
ALEXANDER ALDANA, and ending ROB-
ERT J. WISHMEYER, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of July 8, 2019.
PN929 NAVY nominations (22) beginning
TIMOTHY G. BOYLE, and ending DELICIA
G. ZIMMERMAN, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of July 8, 2019.
PN930 NAVY nominations (21) beginning
AARON T. ALLISON, and ending KRISTIN
B. WHITEHOUSE, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of July 8, 2019.
PN931 NAVY nominations (17) beginning
RYAN B. BARENG, and ending TIMOTHY A.
SPRINGER, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record of July 8, 2019.
PN932 NAVY nominations (61) beginning
KEVIN L. ALBERT, and ending JAMES H.
YOUNG, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record of July 8, 2019.
PN933 NAVY nominations (38) beginning
ARTURO ALVARADO, JR., and ending
ELIZABETH M. ZULOAGA, which nomina-
tions were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of July 8,
2019.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent the Senate pro-
ceed to consideration of Calendar Nos.
408, 409, 410, and 412, and all nomina-
tions on the Secretary’s desk in the
Foreign Service; that the nominations
be confirmed; the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate; that no further motions be in
order; that any statements related to
the nominations be printed in the
Record; the President be immediately
notified of the Senate’s action; and the
Senate resume then legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The nominations considered and con-
firmed are as follows:
IN THE FOREIGN SERVICE
The following-named Career Members of
the Senior Foreign Service of the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment for promotion within the Senior For-
eign Service of the United States of Amer-
ica, Class of Career Minister:
Jennifer M. Adams
Jeffrey N. Bakken
Susan F. Fine
Susan Kosinski Fritz
Lawrence Hardy, II
Sarah-Ann Lynch
The following-named Career Member of the
Foreign Service of the United States Agency
for Global Media, Broadcasting Board of
Governors, for promotion into the Senior
Foreign Service to the class indicated: Ca-
reer Member of the Senior Foreign Service,
Class of Counselor, and a Consular Officer
and a Secretary in the Diplomatic Service of
the United States of America:
William S. Martin
The following-named Career Member of the
Foreign Service of the United States Agency
for International Development, Office of In-
spector General, for promotion within the
Senior Foreign Service of the United States
of America, Class of Minister-Counselor:
Christine Byrne
The following-named Career Member of the
Foreign Service for promotion into the Sen-
ior Foreign Service, as a Career Member of
the Senior Foreign Service of the United
States of America, Class of Counselor:
Robert Mason
IN THE FOREIGN SERVICE
The following-named Career Members of
the Senior Foreign Service of the United
States Department of Agriculture for pro-
motion within the Senior Foreign Service of
the United States of America, Class of Ca-
reer Minister:
James J. Higgiston
Bobby G. Richey, Jr.
NOMINATIONS PLACED ON THE SECRETARY’S
DESK
IN THE FOREIGN SERVICE
PN787–1 FOREIGN SERVICE nominations
(264) beginning Uchenna Nnayelugo Agu, and
ending Jaime Alber Zea Cifuentes, which
nominations were received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record of May
21, 2019.
PN788–1 FOREIGN SERVICE nominations
(102) beginning Jennifer Ann Amos, and end-
ing Michael L. Mahoney, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of May 21, 2019.
PN789 FOREIGN SERVICE nominations
(117) beginning Allison Margaret Bartels, and
ending Yang Q. Zhou, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record of May 21, 2019.
PN790 FOREIGN SERVICE nominations
(81) beginning Vanessa L. Adams, and ending
Lyndsey K. Yoshino-Spencer, which nomina-
tions were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of May
21, 2019.
PN791 FOREIGN SERVICE nominations
(68) beginning Sonja Joy Andersen, and end-
ing Sandra M. Zuniga Guzman, which nomi-
nations were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record of May
21, 2019.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate will now resume legislative session.
f
SUPPORTING THE GOALS AND
IDEALS OF NATIONAL PUBLIC
HEALTH WEEK
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 300, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 300) supporting the
goals and ideals of National Public Health
Week.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the measure.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the question is on
the adoption of the resolution.
The resolution (S. Res. 300) was
agreed to.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the preamble be agreed to
and that the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 17:30 Aug 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JULY\S31JY9.REC S31JY9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5275
July 31, 2019
HONORING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE RETURN OF THE
INDIANA RANGERS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 301, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 301) honoring the 50th
anniversary of the return of the Indiana
Rangers.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 301) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
RECOGNIZING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE FOOD AND NUTRI-
TION SERVICE OF THE DEPART-
MENT OF AGRICULTURE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Con. Res. 24, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tion by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (S. Con. Res. 24)
recognizing the 50th anniversary of the Food
and Nutrition Service of the Department of
Agriculture.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the measure.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the question is on
the adoption of the concurrent resolu-
tion.
The concurrent resolution (S. Con.
Res. 24) was agreed to.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the preamble be agreed to
and that the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The concurrent resolution, with its
preamble, is printed in today’s RECORD
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
CREATING ADVANCED STREAM-
LINED ELECTRONIC SERVICES
FOR CONSTITUENTS ACT OF 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 127, H.R. 1079.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 1079) to require the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget to
issue guidance on electronic consent forms,
and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the bill be
considered read a third time and passed
and the motion to reconsider be consid-
ered made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (H.R. 1079) was ordered to a
third reading, was read the third time,
and passed.
f
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
FOR CHILDREN PROGRAM REAU-
THORIZATION ACT OF 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H.R. 776.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 776) to amend the Public
Health Service Act to reauthorize the Emer-
gency Medical Services for Children pro-
gram.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the bill be
considered read a third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill was ordered to a third read-
ing and was read the third time.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
Hearing none, the bill having been
read the third time, the question is,
Shall the bill pass?
The bill (H.R. 776) was passed.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the mo-
tion to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
NATIONAL CHILD AWARENESS
MONTH
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Res. 302, submitted earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 302) designating Sep-
tember 2019 as ‘‘National Child Awareness
Month’’ to promote awareness of charities
that benefit children and youth-serving orga-
nizations throughout the United States, and
recognizing the efforts made by those char-
ities and organizations on behalf of children
and youth as critical contributions to the fu-
ture of the United States.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
further ask unanimous consent that
the resolution be agreed to, the pre-
amble be agreed to, and the motions to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table with no intervening ac-
tion or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res 302) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY, AUGUST
1, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 9:30 a.m., Thursday, Au-
gust 1; further, that following the pray-
er and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
the consideration of H.R. 3877 under the
previous order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:30 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:26 p.m., adjourned until Thursday,
August 1, 2019, at 9:30 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. ANTHONY J. COTTON
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. DANIEL L. KARBLER
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be vice admiral
VICE ADM. COLIN J. KILRAIN
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED INDIVIDUAL FOR APPOINT-
MENT TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G31JY6.054 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5276 July 31, 2019
To be lieutenant colonel
PETER J. AHN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
ANTHONY S. GAMBOA
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
ANTHONY C. BIVINS II
EDWIN J. CRUZ
NATHAN A. ESTES
NATHAN D. GLANDON
JENNIFER D. HEFNER
LEIF A. HILLSHAFER
STEVE LARIN
SAMUEL A. MCCURRY
JON M. MELIFERAS
CLINTON J. MUERY
CARL J. PRICE
WASEEM S. SAED
STACEY J. WADSLEY
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
AS CHAPLAINS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 624 AND
7064:
To be major
BENJAMIN AHN
JONATHAN M. AVERILL
PETER S. BAHNG
VINCENT A. BAIN
ANSELMO BRILLON
TIMOTHY L. BROOKS
DARRELL V. BURRISS
YUEN S. CABALLEJO
JAMES CHOI
BRADY D. FREDERICK
ROBERT W. FRY
ANTONIO GARCIAMENDEZ
DOMENIC GROTTI
VINCENT L. HARDY
ROBERT S. HEARON, JR.
BRYAN J. HEDRICK
JASON W. HENEISE
DANIEL A. HERRING
PATRICK K. HESTER
ROBERT M. HOLSINGER
TIMOTHY D. ICE
GERALD S. INGRAM
DANIEL T. ISFAN
ANTHONY D. KELLEY
JOEL A. KELLEY
PATRICK KIHIU
HYOSEOK KIM
JAE KIM
JOSHUA H. KIM
STEPHEN J. KIM
BRYAN S. KIMBLE
TERRI J. KING
WILLIAM H. KING
MOSHE LANS
JUNGU LEE
RYAN P. LEWIS
JOONHYUK LIM
STEVEN LOVE
ALFRED E. MATTHEWS
REBECCA J. MCMICHAEL
THOMAS MILLER
JAMES J. MITCHEM
ERIC C. MOLER
CARLOS A. MOLINA
IK J. MOON
GEORGEL OANCA
ARKADIUSZ Z. OCHALEK
LOREN R. OMER
CALVIN PARK
ROBERT D. PATTERSON
JOEL W. PAYNE
JEREMY T. PICKENS
JONATHAN PORTER
LUCAS V. REES
JEREMY M. RHOADES
ALVARO F. RIVERA
PAUL J. ROMAN
JOSEPH W. SALEM
MATTHIAS E. SCHUBERT
TIMOTHY M. SHEPHERD
WILLIAM D. SILVA
LOREN G. SINK
JACOB R. SNELL
JEREMIAH D. SNYDER
RICKY E. TRULL
FOLAUGA TUPUOLA
ALISON L. WARD
KEVIN G. WHITE
MICHAEL E. WHITE
VIVIAN K. YANQUOIWEST
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
SPENCER W. ROBINSON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be colonel
ROBERT B. LACKEY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
KRISTA M. KLEIN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
DENIS J. MCDONNELL
JEFFREY C. NICHOLS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL’S CORPS UNDER TITLE 10,
U.S.C., SECTIONS 624 AND 7064:
To be colonel
SHAWN D. SMITH
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
CHOWDRY M. BASHIR
WENDELL W. BECTON
SCOTT A. BIER
GORDON M. HUGHES
BRADLEY S. KING
RICKY C. N. KUE
KEVIN G. PETTUS
TAYLOR L. SAWYER
MARK P. SHASHIKANT
RICHARD M. SLUSHER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
APOLLA A. BENITO
ROGER B. BENTON
DAVID G. BOYD
MATTHEW I. DIAL
JASON J. MAEDER
DAVID L. MESSERLI
REBECCA J. OLDHAM
VALERIE L. PETROSKY
DIRK B. REMENSNYDER
MICHAEL E. TERRY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
THOMAS W. BINGAMON
WILLIAM M. FOX III
JANIE L. HOWARD
DERRICK D. KOOKER
EDWIN L. LEAVITT
JOHN W. MERRELL
CONRAD J. ROSS
TRAVIS J. WEISZHAAR
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
TONYA L. EHLERT
RANDALL F. HEDEGAARD
CHARLES C. HWANG
WILLIAM D. KILLGORE
ALBERT L. KOGER
JIMMY LEE
KATHERINE A. MARR
PATRICK M. MCNUTT
MICHAEL W. OSBORNE
ROBERT D. PAYNE
CHRISTOPHER R. PILAND
LISA L. SPAHR
KIRK J. WEPPLER
ARVE A. WIKSTROM
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
BRIAN S. HATLER
GABRIEL P. OWENS
RICHARD V. TEA
WILLIAM B. WALKER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
ROBERT G. BONIFACIO
RANCE P. ERWIN
PAUL J. HOLLIER
BRADLEY A. KEOUGH
HEATHER S. SHUEY
MICHAEL T. SIMPSON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
BARBARA S. ANTUS
ANGELA J. BRAITHWOOD
JEFFREY S. CHEEK
JOHN L. ENGLISH
MONICA M. LAW
ERIN M. MERRYWEATHER
JEAN V. MOVINGCOLLINS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
JOYCE C. ANACKER
STEVEN P. BOGDANOFF
JOSEPH D. CHRISTENSEN
CAMERON H. CONKIN
CLINT E. RAU
JASON I. REVESTIR
BYRON J. THOMPSON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
BRUCE J. BRITSON
BRIAN P. FRIEDLAND
JOEL GRANT
THOMAS W. HRABAL
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
JASON A. FOREMAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
ALEXANDRA E. WEISKOPF
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
TRACY A. BALL
JEFFERY R. BORDERS
JOHN G. BROOKS
LOLITA E. CHING
BERNADETTE D. CHRISTMAS
CYNTHIA R. COPP
JENNIFER L. DROGE
JOHN J. EVAN
TAMARA K. GREENWELL
ROBERT L. GREGG
GRANVILLE E. HENDERSON
JOHN E. LEE
ROBERT L. MCCARY
DEBORAH A. MCKINNEY
ANGELINA C. MCMURRAY
MELISSA L. MITRAVICH
YEE L. ONG
LAURA L. PORTER
TINA M. POWELL
GRETCHEN A. RITTER
KAREN M. SMITH
JULIE A. VANCE
DONNA E. WARD
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
LAUREL A. KAPPEDAL
RHONDA B. WHITE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
ANNA L. ALDANA
CRAIG S. COLAS
GUERSCHON DE LAURENT
VERONICA D. RAY
BEN B. ROSS
JOSEPH S. SEILER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
KARL ANDERSON
SHANE ANDERSON
MATTHEW D. BACCHETTA
ROBERT BEJNAROWICZ
CHAD L. BENDER
JOHN G. BENITEZ
JAMES F. BENSON, JR.
PETER B. CHASE
JOHN CHOVANES
JASON E. COHEN
ROY R. DANKS
KAREN L. DELLAGIUSTINA
CHARLES T. DODSON
ERIN FLAHERTY
JAMES W. GRAHAM
SCOTT M. HARRINGTON
PENELOPE J. HARRIS
WAYNE J. HARSHA
KEDRON R. HEADS
ALAN F. HELMBOLD
MARK M. JACKSON
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.003 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5277
July 31, 2019
RODGER D. JACKSON
ERNEST JAMES III
SUZANNA C. JAMISON
MATTHEW B. JOHNSON
SAMEER D. KHATRI
LOREN M. KIRCHNER
RAJA S. KOLLI
JEANETTE P. KUIZON
PAUL C. KUO
HERBERT P. KWON
STEPHEN A. LAWSON
SARA M. LOKSTAD
ARGELIO L. LOPEZROCA
VINCENT J. MASE, JR.
JUDE J. MOMODU
VANCE J. MOSS
YULIUS MUSTAFA
JENNIFER D. NGUYEN
VIVEK P. PADHA
JEFFREY T. PARKER
ANTHONY R. PLUNKETT
EDWARD J. RAMIREZ
MARTHA S. ROELLIG
ANTHONY D. RUDD
GIRISH SETHURAMAN
ROY F. THOMAS
JEFFREY M. TIEDE
THADDEAUS F. VERNON
GREGORY A. WATSON
SAUL J. E. WEINREB
ROBERT R. WESTERMEYER II
CLAUDE R. WORKMAN
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES MA-
RINE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
NATHAN P. DMOCHOWSKI
f
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate July 31, 2019:
THE JUDICIARY
KARIN J. IMMERGUT, OF OREGON, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.
JOHN MILTON YOUNGE, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
MARK T. PITTMAN, OF TEXAS, TO BE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF
TEXAS.
JEFFREY VINCENT BROWN, OF TEXAS, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF TEXAS.
BRANTLEY STARR, OF TEXAS, TO BE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF
TEXAS.
JASON K. PULLIAM, OF TEXAS, TO BE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF
TEXAS.
MARTHA MARIA PACOLD, OF ILLINOIS, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT
OF ILLINOIS.
MARY M. ROWLAND, OF ILLINOIS, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT
OF ILLINOIS.
WILLIAM SHAW STICKMAN IV, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO
BE UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
IN THE COAST GUARD
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES COAST GUARD TO THE GRADE IN-
DICATED UNDER TITLE 14, U.S.C., SECTION 2121(D):
To be rear admiral
REAR ADM. (LH) MELVIN W. BOUBOULIS
REAR ADM. (LH) DONNA L. COTTRELL
REAR ADM. (LH) MICHAEL J. JOHNSTON
REAR ADM. (LH) ERIC C. JONES
REAR ADM. (LH) MICHAEL P. RYAN
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. MARY F. O’BRIEN
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. BRYAN P. FENTON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. RONALD J. PLACE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN
THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be brigadier general
COL. ROBERT T. WOOLDRIDGE II
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS COMMANDER, MARINE FORCES RESERVE, AND AP-
POINTMENT TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES MARINE CORPS RESERVE WHILE ASSIGNED TO A
POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER
TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 601 AND 8084:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. DAVID G. BELLON
IN THE COAST GUARD
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO SERVE AS THE DIRECTOR OF THE COAST GUARD RE-
SERVE IN THE GRADE INDICATED UNDER TITLE 14, U.S.C.,
SECTION 309(B):
To be rear admiral (lower half)
REAR ADM. TODD C. WIEMERS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
KELLY CRAFT, OF KENTUCKY, TO BE THE REPRESENT-
ATIVE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE
UNITED NATIONS, WITH THE RANK AND STATUS OF AM-
BASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY,
AND THE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA IN THE SECURITY COUNCIL OF THE UNITED NA-
TIONS.
FOREIGN SERVICE
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
JENNIFER M. ADAMS AND ENDING WITH SARAH–ANN
LYNCH, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE
SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON APRIL 10, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATION OF WILLIAM S. MAR-
TIN.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
CHRISTINE BYRNE AND ENDING WITH ROBERT MASON,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
APRIL 10, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
JAMES J. HIGGISTON AND ENDING WITH BOBBY G.
RICHEY, JR., WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY
THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON MAY 21, 2019.
IN THE AIR FORCE
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH MARK C.
ALDERMAN AND ENDING WITH DENEAN V. E. ZOZO,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
APRIL 29, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF ROBERT K. RANKIN, JR., TO
BE LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF JUDY A. RATTAN, TO BE
COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH GAYLAN A.
GRAY AND ENDING WITH JORDAN H. LINDEKE, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JUNE 18,
2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH HANS ERIC
ANKER AND ENDING WITH BRIAN DOUGLAS ZULLO,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JUNE 18, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF JOHN W. POULTER, TO BE
COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF THOMAS D. AUSHERMAN,
TO BE COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH EDWARD J.
BRENNAN AND ENDING WITH KENNETH A. STREMMEL,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JULY 8, 2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH LAUREN A.
BAKER AND ENDING WITH JESSE W. JOHNSON, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JULY 8,
2019.
AIR FORCE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JONATHAN
D. BARNES AND ENDING WITH JEREMIAH P. SEXTON,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JULY 8, 2019.
IN THE ARMY
ARMY NOMINATION OF LARRY D. CROWDER, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JASON B.
BARIATTI AND ENDING WITH MARK A. PATTERSON,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JUNE 18, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATION OF ROGER M. LEWIS, TO BE LIEU-
TENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH THELMA D.
CUMMINGS AND ENDING WITH KYUNGKUN LEE, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JUNE 18,
2019.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JOSHUA S. ANDERSON, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JOSEPH P. BLAKENEY, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF PATRICK D. CLARY, TO BE LIEU-
TENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF MARIE P. CORPUZ, TO BE LIEU-
TENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF ERNEST M. DOREMA, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF SIMONE M. EDWARDS, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF LUCIANO G. MIZERANI, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF ROCHELLE S. PRESSLEY, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF HOWARD G. RICE, TO BE LIEU-
TENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF VIRGINIA L. EGLI, TO BE COLO-
NEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF DARREN K. PURCELL, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JOSEPH R.
ADAMS AND ENDING WITH LIANG ZHOU, WHICH NOMINA-
TIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED
IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JULY 8, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH RYAN H.
ALLRED AND ENDING WITH ANNA YOO, WHICH NOMINA-
TIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED
IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JULY 8, 2019.
ARMY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH KEITH J. AN-
DREWS AND ENDING WITH JEFFREY T. WHORTON, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JULY 8,
2019.
IN THE MARINE CORPS
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF TIMOTHY K. GALLA-
GHER, JR., TO BE LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF KYLE A. UGONE, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF SEAN M. WILLIAMS, TO
BE LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF CHRISTOPHER D.
MCLIN, TO BE LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
IN THE NAVY
NAVY NOMINATION OF CHRISTOPHER M. JOHNSON, TO
BE COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF BENNY P. VOLKMANN, TO BE
COMMANDER.
NAVY NOMINATION OF ERIC A. POLONSKY, TO BE COM-
MANDER.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH VINCENT L. ACK-
ERMAN AND ENDING WITH JAMES L. ZIMMERMAN, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JULY 8,
2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH RICARDO M.
ABAKAH AND ENDING WITH YU ZHENG, WHICH NOMINA-
TIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED
IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JULY 8, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH ALEXANDER
ALDANA AND ENDING WITH ROBERT J. WISHMEYER,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JULY 8, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH TIMOTHY G.
BOYLE AND ENDING WITH DELICIA G. ZIMMERMAN,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JULY 8, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH AARON T. ALLI-
SON AND ENDING WITH KRISTIN B. WHITEHOUSE, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JULY 8,
2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH RYAN B.
BARENG AND ENDING WITH TIMOTHY A. SPRINGER,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JULY 8, 2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH KEVIN L. AL-
BERT AND ENDING WITH JAMES H. YOUNG, WHICH NOMI-
NATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON JULY 8,
2019.
NAVY NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH ARTURO ALVA-
RADO, JR. AND ENDING WITH ELIZABETH M. ZULOAGA,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
JULY 8, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
UCHENNA NNAYELUGO AGU AND ENDING WITH JAIME
ALBER ZEA CIFUENTES, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RE-
CEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD ON MAY 21, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
JENNIFER ANN AMOS AND ENDING WITH MICHAEL L.
MAHONEY, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY
THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON MAY 21, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH AL-
LISON MARGARET BARTELS AND ENDING WITH YANG Q.
ZHOU, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE
SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON MAY 21, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
VANESSA L. ADAMS AND ENDING WITH LYNDSEY K.
YOSHINO–SPENCER, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RE-
CEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD ON MAY 21, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
SONJA JOY ANDERSEN AND ENDING WITH SANDRA M.
ZUNIGA GUZMAN, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED
BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON MAY 21, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:42 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 0637 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A31JY6.006 S31JYPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1021
July 31, 2019
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
August 1, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
SEPTEMBER 17
2:30 p.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition
Policy and Consumer Rights
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
enforcement of the antitrust laws.
SD–226
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:25 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M31JY8.000 E31JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D938
Wednesday, July 31, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S5207–S5277
Measures Introduced: Sixty-five bills and twelve
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
2347–2411, S.J. Res. 52, S. Res. 294–302, and S.
Con. Res. 23–24. Pages S5247–49
Measures Reported:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Review of Legislative Ac-
tivity During the 115th Congress’’. (S. Rept. No.
116–68)
S. 1441, to impose sanctions with respect to the
provision of certain vessels for the construction of
Russian energy export pipelines, with an amendment
in the nature of a substitute.
S. 1992, to amend the FAST Act to repeal a re-
scission of funds. Page S5247
Measures Passed:
Amending the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Re-
lief and Emergency Assistance Act: Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs was
discharged from further consideration of H.R. 639,
to amend section 327 of the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act to clarify
that National Urban Search and Rescue Response
System task forces may include Federal employees,
and the bill was then passed. Page S5216
Restore the Harmony Way Bridge Act: Senate
passed H.R. 3245, to transfer a bridge over the Wa-
bash River to the New Harmony River Bridge Au-
thority and the New Harmony and Wabash River
Bridge Authority. Page S5217
Colonel Charles E. McGee Honorary Promotion:
Committee on Armed Services was discharged from
further consideration of S. 2052, to authorize the
honorary promotion of Colonel Charles E. McGee to
brigadier general in the United States Air Force, and
the bill was then passed, after agreeing to the fol-
lowing amendment proposed thereto: Page S5217
Cornyn (for Van Hollen) Amendment No. 933, to
prohibit entitlement to benefits by reason of the
honorary promotion. Page S5217
Authorizing the Use of Emancipation Hall: Sen-
ate agreed to H. Con. Res. 53, authorizing the use
of Emancipation Hall for an event to commemorate
the 400th anniversary of the arrival of the first Afri-
can slaves to the territory that would become the
United States. Page S5217
The American Legion 100th Anniversary: Com-
mittee on the Judiciary was discharged from further
consideration of S. Res. 263, honoring the 100th an-
niversary of The American Legion, and the resolution
was then agreed to. Page S5217
National Airborne Day: Senate agreed to S. Res.
294, designating August 16, 2019, as ‘‘National
Airborne Day’’. Page S5217
Campus Fire Safety Month: Senate agreed to S.
Res. 295, designating the month of September 2019
as ‘‘Campus Fire Safety Month’’. Pages S5217–18
School Bus Safety Month: Committee on the Ju-
diciary was discharged from further consideration of
S. Res. 285, designating September 2019 as ‘‘School
Bus Safety Month’’, and the resolution was then
agreed to. Page S5218
National Public Health Week: Senate agreed to
S. Res. 300, supporting the goals and ideals of Na-
tional Public Health Week. Page S5274
Indiana Rangers 50th Anniversary: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 301, honoring the 50th anniversary
of the return of the Indiana Rangers. Page S5275
Food and Nutrition Service of the Department
of Agriculture 50th Anniversary: Senate agreed to
S. Con. Res. 24, recognizing the 50th anniversary of
the Food and Nutrition Service of the Department
of Agriculture. Page S5275
Creating Advanced Streamlined Electronic Serv-
ices for Constituents Act: Senate passed H.R. 1079,
to require the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget to issue guidance on electronic consent
forms. Page S5275
Emergency Medical Services for Children Pro-
gram Reauthorization Act: Senate passed H.R. 776,
to amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthor-
ize the Emergency Medical Services for Children pro-
gram. Page S5275
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D31JY9.REC D31JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D939
July 31, 2019
National Child Awareness Month: Senate agreed
to S. Res. 302, designating September 2019 as ‘‘Na-
tional Child Awareness Month’’ to promote aware-
ness of charities that benefit children and youth-serv-
ing organizations throughout the United States, and
recognizing the efforts made by those charities and
organizations on behalf of children and youth as crit-
ical contributions to the future of the United States.
Page S5275
Bipartisan Budget Act—Agreement: A unani-
mous-consent agreement was reached providing that
at approximately 9:30 a.m., on Thursday, August 1,
2019, Senate begin consideration of H.R. 3877, to
amend the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985, to establish a congressional
budget for fiscal years 2020 and 2021, to tempo-
rarily suspend the debt limit, under the order of
Tuesday, July 30, 2019. Page S5275
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
Karin J. Immergut, of Oregon, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Oregon.
Page S5228
John Milton Younge, of Pennsylvania, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania. Page S5228
Mary M. Rowland, of Illinois, to be United States
District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois.
Page S5228
By 54 yeas to 36 nays (Vote No. EX. 253), Mark
T. Pittman, of Texas, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Texas.
Pages S5210–16, S5228–29
By 50 yeas to 40 nays (Vote No. EX. 254), Jeffrey
Vincent Brown, of Texas, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Southern District of Texas.
Page S5229
By 51 yeas to 39 nays (Vote No. EX. 255),
Brantley Starr, of Texas, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Texas. Page S5229
By 54 yeas to 36 nays (Vote No. EX. 256), Jason
K. Pulliam, of Texas, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of Texas.
Pages S5229–30
By 87 yeas to 3 nays (Vote No. EX. 257), Martha
Maria Pacold, of Illinois, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Illinois.
Page S5230
By 56 yeas to 34 nays (Vote No. EX. 258), Wil-
liam Shaw Stickman IV, of Pennsylvania, to be
United States District Judge for the Western Dis-
trict of Pennsylvania. Page S5230
By 56 yeas to 34 nays (Vote No. EX. 259), Kelly
Craft, of Kentucky, to be the Representative of the
United States of America to the United Nations,
with the rank and status of Ambassador, and the
Representative of the United States of America in
the Security Council of the United Nations.
Pages S5230–31
1 Air Force nomination in the rank of general.
3 Army nominations in the rank of general.
6 Coast Guard nominations in the rank of admi-
ral.
1 Marine Corps nomination in the rank of general.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, Foreign
Service, Marine Corps, and Navy. Pages S5273–74
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
1 Air Force nomination in the rank of general.
1 Army nomination in the rank of general.
1 Navy nomination in the rank of admiral.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, and Marine
Corps. Pages S5275–77
Executive Communications: Pages S5246–47
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S5247
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S5249–52
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S5252–56
Additional Statements: Pages S5244–46
Amendments Submitted: Pages S5260–62
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S5262
Privileges of the Floor: Page S5262
Record Votes: Seven record votes were taken today.
(Total—259) Pages S5229–31
Adjournment: Senate convened at 9:30 a.m. and
adjourned at 6:26 p.m., until 9:30 a.m. on Thurs-
day, August 1, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the
remarks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S5275.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
U.S. GRAIN STANDARDS ACT
REAUTHORIZATION
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine perspectives
on reauthorization of the United States Grain Stand-
ards Act, after receiving testimony from Brian Linin,
National Association of Wheat Growers, Goodland,
Kansas; David Ayers, on behalf of Tom Dahl, Amer-
ican Association of Grain Inspection and Weighing
Agencies, Sioux City, Iowa; Bruce Sutherland,
Michigan Agriculture Commodities, Lansing, Michi-
gan, on behalf of the National Grain and Feed Asso-
ciation; and Nick Friant, Cargill, Inc., Wayzata,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D31JY9.REC D31JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D940 July 31, 2019
Minnesota, on behalf of the North American Export
Grain Association.
FAA OVERSIGHT
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Trans-
portation, Housing and Urban Development, and
Related Agencies concluded an oversight hearing to
examine the Federal Aviation Administration, after
receiving testimony from Carl E. Burleson, Acting
Deputy Administrator, Federal Aviation Administra-
tion.
NOMINATION
Committee on Armed Services: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the nomination of Vice Admiral
Michael M. Gilday, USN, to be Admiral and Chief
of Naval Operations, Department of Defense, after
the nominee testified and answered questions in his
own behalf.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee ordered favorably reported the following
business items:
S. 2297, to authorize appropriations for the Coast
Guard, with an amendment; and
S. 2299, to amend title 49, United States Code,
to enhance the safety and reliability of pipeline
transportation, with an amendment in the nature of
a substitute.
POSITIVE TRAIN CONTROL
IMPLEMENTATION
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine next
steps for positive train control implementation, after
receiving testimony from Ronald L. Batory, Admin-
istrator, Federal Railroad Administration, Depart-
ment of Transportation; Susan Fleming, Director,
Physical Infrastructure, Government Accountability
Office; Robert Bourg, Wabtec Corporation,
Wilmerding, Pennsylvania; James Derwinski, Metra
Commuter Railroad, Chicago, Illinois; and Chris
Matthews, BNSF Railway Company, Fort Worth,
Texas.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Finance: Committee ordered favorably
reported the nominations of Brent James McIntosh,
of Michigan, to be an Under Secretary, Brian
Callanan, of New Jersey, to be General Counsel, and
Brian McGuire, of New York, to be a Deputy Under
Secretary, all of the Department of the Treasury, and
Travis Greaves, of the District of Columbia, to be a
Judge of the United States Tax Court.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee ordered fa-
vorably reported S. 1441, to impose sanctions with
respect to the provision of certain vessels for the con-
struction of Russian energy export pipelines, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Indian Affairs: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported the nomination of E. Sequoyah
Simermeyer, of Maryland, to be Chairman of the Na-
tional Indian Gaming Commission.
NOMINATIONS
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the nominations of Kenneth
Charles Canterbury, Jr., of South Carolina, to be Di-
rector, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives, Department of Justice, R. Austin
Huffaker, Jr., to be United States District Judge for
the Middle District of Alabama, who was introduced
by Senators Shelby and Jones, Lee Philip Rudofsky,
to be United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Arkansas, who was introduced by Senator
Boozman, and Justin Reed Walker, to be United
States District Judge for the Western District of
Kentucky, who was introduced by Senator McCon-
nell, after the nominees testified and answered ques-
tions in their own behalf.
h
House of Representatives
The House was not in session today. The House
is scheduled to meet at 11 a.m. on Friday, August
2, 2019.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D31JY9.REC D31JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D941
July 31, 2019
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
AUGUST 1, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on the Judiciary: business meeting to consider
S. 1494, to amend the William Wilberforce Trafficking
Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 to pro-
tect alien minors and to amend the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act to end abuse of the asylum system and es-
tablish refugee application and processing centers outside
the United States, and the nomination of W. Stephen
Muldrow, to be United States Attorney for the District
of Puerto Rico, Department of Justice, 10 a.m., SD–226.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D31JY9.REC D31JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D942 July 31, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
9:30 a.m., Thursday, August 1
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will begin consideration
of H.R. 3877, Bipartisan Budget Act.
Senate may consider any cleared legislative and execu-
tive business.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
11 a.m., Friday, August 2
House Chamber
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma ses-
sion at 11 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Aug 01, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D31JY9.REC D31JYPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
