Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H7757
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2019 No. 150
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. GOTTHEIMER).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
September 18, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JOSH
GOTTHEIMER to act as Speaker pro tempore
on this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
CONGRESS MUST PASS USMCA
AGREEMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
South Dakota (Mr. JOHNSON) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr.
Speaker, it is time. It is time for Con-
gress to pass the United States-Mexico-
Canada Agreement, the USMCA. This
is not, as many of you know, a new
issue. The administration finished its
work months ago—292 days ago, to be
exact.
That is 292 days that Congress has
had to ask questions. That is 292 days
that we have had to assess the benefits
of the agreement. That is 292 days we
have had to analyze the text of that
agreement.
During the August recess, I had con-
versations with hundreds, maybe thou-
sands, of folks. Their message was
clear: USMCA is a clearly better agree-
ment, and Congress needs to do its job
for the good of this country.
There are a number of ways in which
the President has negotiated a USMCA
that is stronger, that is better than
NAFTA.
First, USMCA ensures that the dig-
ital economy will be more open and
that it will be more secure.
Second, the strong language on cur-
rency manipulation and on intellectual
property provides a model for our way
forward with other agreements, espe-
cially one with China.
Third, Mr. Speaker, the benefits to
the ag community are compelling. My
colleagues have heard me speak before
about the fact that our ag producers
have not had the easiest time of it late-
ly. They need USMCA.
This agreement opens up new access
to Canadian markets for wheat, wine,
eggs, poultry, and dairy. It increases
agricultural exports by $2 billion a
year. That is why 1,000 ag groups from
across the country have endorsed
USMCA. They know that with fair ac-
cess to markets, American producers
can compete and win.
USMCA is not perfect, but collec-
tively, these improvements would cre-
ate 176,000 new American jobs and
would increase our GDP by $68 billion.
That is real value, and it is value
across the agricultural, manufacturing,
and service sectors.
The administration has done its job.
It has negotiated an agreement that
powers economic opportunity and
grows American jobs.
So, it is time. It is time for this body
to act. It is time for the Speaker to
bring this bill to the floor. Mr. Speak-
er, it is time for us to pass USMCA.
PUT PRINCIPLES ABOVE POLITICS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
and still I rise because I love my coun-
try. And I rise today because we are
witnessing clear and convincing evi-
dence of a Presidential coverup. We are
witnessing this evidence live and in liv-
ing color on national TV.
Just yesterday, before the Judiciary
Committee, two witnesses did not ap-
pear pursuant to the coverup, and the
one who did appear brought with him
the clear and convincing evidence. He
brought with him a letter from the
President of the United States, by and
through his agents, that indicates that
he should not give certain testimony—
clear and convincing evidence of a
coverup.
The President of the United States is
engaged in a continuation of obstruc-
tion that is creating the coverup. He
obstructed. This is why we are having
the Judiciary Committee hearings, in
part.
He continues his obstruction, which
means he is covering up. We cannot
allow this to continue.
The President is making a bet. The
President’s bet is this: The President is
betting that we will put politics above
principle, that we will not use Article
II, section 4 of the Constitution as the
radical Republicans did in 1868 to im-
peach President Johnson for merely
speaking ill of Congress.
He is betting we won’t use that. He is
betting we won’t put the principle
above the politics. He believes that we
will put winning the next election
above the Constitution of the United
States of America. He believes that we
are going to put the politics above the
moral imperative to do that which we
know should be done when a President
has committed impeachable acts.
I believe that we will not be driven
by the polls. We will not. Those who
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:22 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE7.000 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7758 September 18, 2019
crossed the Edmund Pettus Bridge
weren’t driven by the polls. They were
driven by a moral authority that they
had to do that which was right, and we
must do the right thing, too.
We cannot be driven by polls. We
must drive the polls. We must stand on
principle. We will not allow the next
election to determine what we will do
now.
Mr. Speaker, it is a risky thing to
make this kind of decision. You don’t
know what the next election will bring.
You have to use this power that the
voters have given us, the constituents
have given us, the people of this coun-
try have given us to do that which is
right.
We must impeach this President. If
we don’t impeach him, Article II, sec-
tion 4 of the Constitution will become
meaningless. There will be no guard-
rails. There are none now, as he sees it,
because he has made a bet.
Well, I am betting that this Congress
will do the right thing. I am betting
that we are going to put principle
above politics and the people of this
country above our political parties. I
am betting we are not going to try to
save a few people at an election at the
expense of all the people who are suf-
fering because of the coverup and be-
cause of the insidious discrimination
this President is perpetrating upon this
country and his policies.
I am betting on the American people.
I am betting that the American people
will stand with us. I am also betting
that principle above all is what we
must stand with.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
CONGRATULATING WICK’S PIES ON
ITS 75TH ANNIVERSARY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Indiana (Mr. PENCE) for 5 minutes.
Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise with
the sweetest news from the Sixth Con-
gressional District of Indiana. On Sep-
tember 25, the famous Wick’s Pies will
celebrate its 75th anniversary in busi-
ness.
Hoosier families have come to know
Wick’s for its delicious pies and baked
goods that have been a staple in Ran-
dolph County since 1944. Duane ‘‘Wick’’
Wickersham started this business by
delivering pies from his 1934 Buick
sedan. Within 4 years, he was pro-
ducing over 300 pies a day.
Wick’s is renowned for its sugar
cream pie, a Hoosier specialty since
that has become the State’s official
State pie.
To this day, Wick’s Pies remains
family owned and can produce 10,000
pies in a single 8-hour shift. Wick’s dis-
tributes to more than 40 States, though
you can’t beat a fresh slice from Mr.
Wick’s restaurant on Cherry Street in
Winchester, which I have enjoyed.
Mr. Speaker, I congratulate Wick’s
Pies.
LACK OF HIGH-SPEED INTERNET ACCESS
IMPACTS ALL AMERICANS
Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, earlier in
the year, I had the privilege of sitting
in Ranking Member GRAVES’ chair for
a portion of the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure Members’
Day Hearing. Regardless of the diverse
backgrounds or districts we represent,
my Republican and Democratic col-
leagues echoed familiar stories of how
the lack of high-speed internet access
is impacting their constituents.
To address this issue, I worked with
my colleague and fellow Hoosier, Con-
gressman VISCLOSKY, to introduce the
Broadband Interagency Coordination
Act, legislation to close the digital di-
vide in rural America. Our bill directs
the FCC, USDA, and NTIA to enter
into an agreement to coordinate the
distribution of Federal funds for
broadband deployment.
We are working to make it easier for
rural communities to access high-speed
internet. We must close the digital di-
vide and ensure Hoosiers and rural
Americans are not left behind.
f
GUN VIOLENCE IS UNACCEPTABLE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. RUSH) for 5 minutes.
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to address the scourge of mass shoot-
ings currently plaguing my community
and other communities around the Na-
tion.
The Gun Violence Archive, Mr.
Speaker, which is a not-for-profit cor-
poration that tracks and disseminates
information on mass shootings, defines
mass shootings as incidents where four
or more people are injured or killed as
a result of gunfire. Using this metric,
Mr. Speaker, there have been 33 mass
shootings in my district in the past 5
years, and eight so far this year—33
mass shootings in my district in the
past 5 years and eight so far this very
year.
Mr. Speaker, our national conscious-
ness has been shocked by the tragedies
in Ohio and Texas, as it should very
well be, but we seem increasingly numb
to the everyday violence taking place
in cities like Chicago and Baltimore
and other places throughout the Na-
tion, especially when that violence im-
pacts people of color.
Mr. Speaker, clearly, the events that
took place in Dayton, El Paso, and
Odessa deserve our most serious and in-
tense attention. These are despicable
acts carried out by despicable actors. I
only wish, Mr. Speaker, that every sin-
gle mass shooting in our Nation re-
ceived the same intense and undivided
attention.
There are men, women, and children
being murdered and maimed on an al-
most daily basis across our Nation.
Their names, Mr. Speaker, are easily
forgotten and not remembered. Their
stories will not be read aloud on the
national news. Their families’ pain will
continue to be ignored.
There are many slow-moving mas-
sacres taking place in districts like
mine that, unfortunately, do not re-
ceive the same widespread attention
because the violence is occurring in
poorer, minority communities where it
is sadly seen as commonplace or par for
the course: They deserve to be victims.
They deserve to be mass murdered.
They deserve to be killed by gunfire.
They have earned that. That is how
they live. They are subhuman.
Mr. Speaker, as you and I know, this
is unacceptable at its core. Throughout
my tenure in this Congress, I have in-
troduced and reintroduced legislation
that will help reduce the mass shoot-
ings taking place today, yesterday, and
days gone by in my district and be-
yond.
b 1015
In 2007, I first introduced the Blair
Holt Firearm Licensing and Record of
Sale Act. I have reintroduced this bill
in every Congress since; and in 2019, it
is more necessary than ever, as it
would forbid unlicensed firearm owner-
ship, prohibit the transfer of firearms
without a valid license, and require
universal background checks.
Additionally, Mr. Speaker, this body
has passed two important background
check bills that have been passed out
of this House, and I was the proud co-
sponsor of each of these bills. They
now, sad to say, are sitting collecting
dust over on the Senate side.
f
WELCOMING AUSTRALIAN PRIME
MINISTER SCOTT MORRISON TO
THE UNITED STATES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Connecticut (Mr. COURTNEY) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, on
Friday this week, September 20, our
country will be welcoming the top offi-
cial of the country of Australia, Prime
Minister Scott Morrison, who will be
arriving in Washington, D.C.
It is an important event, I think, for
both countries, because this alliance
between our two countries is so deep
and the bond is so strong. The times
that we are living in are so critical in
terms of, again, just reaffirming all of
the work that our two countries do to-
gether in so many ways, whether it is
in terms of our military alliance, intel-
ligence, trade, our cultures in terms of
everything from movies to literature
to music. Again, it is a deep and rich
bond between our two countries.
Mr. Speaker, during the August
break, we had a bipartisan group, a
number of us, who actually went to the
country of Australia for a joint Mem-
bers of Parliament/Members of Con-
gress conference that took place in
Perth, Australia. There were about a
dozen Members, bicameral and bipar-
tisan. I can tell you that the prognosis
is very good in terms of the connection
between our two countries.
As I said, the integration of our two
militaries could not be deeper and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:22 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18SE7.002 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7759
September 18, 2019
more connected. Again, it is a relation-
ship that goes back to World War I,
when U.S. troops, the first group that
arrived in the expeditionary force in
World War I, actually fought under an
Australian general, John Monash. Ob-
viously, that carried through during
World War II, particularly in the Asia-
Pacific region.
In Vietnam, they were our ally, one
of the few that actually fought with
our country during that conflict; and,
obviously, in the Middle East, Aus-
tralian troops have been part of, again,
operations, to this day, between the
two countries in terms of the fight
against ISIS and others.
When we were in Australia, again,
the situation that I think is most ur-
gent and something I really think all
of us need to pay attention to is that
the environment in the Indo-Pacific re-
gion is changing dramatically.
We now have a leader in the country
of China, Xi Jinping, who has declared
himself President for life and who has
openly and brazenly basically signaled
that he is prepared to disregard all
international rules-based order, which
has really been the foundation of that
region since the end of World War II,
whether it is maritime law, where,
again, they are building islands totally
in violation of maritime law, or wheth-
er it is a claim of the Nine-Dash Line,
which is a territorial claim far out into
the South China Sea and the East
China Sea.
Again, what is happening there is
egregious. It is harmful in terms of safe
passage and open lanes of maritime
traffic in the region. They obviously
are engaged in an unprecedented mili-
tary buildup, again, developing missile
technologies that put surface ships of
both countries and others in the region
at great risk.
So we have a lot of work to do.
Rare earth minerals, which, again,
China dominates. They have a virtual
monopoly. Everything from our
cellphones to aerospace and maritime
equipment require the use of that.
Western Australia, in particular, has
deep deposits of rare earth minerals,
and it is time for our two countries to
work together to create a different sup-
ply chain that does not rely totally on
the country of China to make that hap-
pen.
What we also heard was that the best
way that our country can move for-
ward is to really, I think, point to what
makes us most attractive in the world
today, which is our embrace of democ-
racy, free speech, openness, and gen-
erosity.
Again, those are policies which we
heard loud and clear from our col-
leagues in the Australian Parliament
that they are looking to America,
which has been the leader since the end
of World War II, to promote, that type
of international rules-based order.
That is really the question of the day
for this administration, which is in a
go-it-alone trade war with China.
Again, they have got the symptom
right, which is that China’s behavior is
egregious and malign, particularly in
terms of the trade practices that they
engage in, but the question is: How do
you push back? How do you execute a
policy that should be multilateral, col-
laborative with our allies, to make
sure that the World Trade Organization
actually has real teeth in terms of en-
forcing egregious violations that China
has been engaged in in terms of intel-
lectual property and government in-
volvement in terms of trying to cap-
ture different markets like solar panels
and many, many others?
So, again, I just want to say to our
friends in Australia that they are wel-
come in this country. We look forward
to, again, a very rich and strong alli-
ance moving forward. The coequal
branch of our government in Congress
is part of that message and part of that
policy.
Again, we look forward to many
years of productive work together
based on common values as well as
common interests and, obviously, the
embrace of democracy for the region
and for the rest of the world.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 21
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker at
noon.
f
PRAYER
Chaplain Major General Steven
Schaick, U.S. Air Force, The Pentagon,
Arlington, Virginia, offered the fol-
lowing prayer:
Loving God, we ask forgiveness for
all the times we forget things that bear
remembering. Sometimes we forget
that when Sam Johnson’s F–4 was shot
down and 7 years of torture ensued, he
credits prayer, holy scripture, and
Your undeniable presence for his sur-
vival, release, and his becoming a U.S.
Congressman. And sometimes we forget
that when Tech Sergeant Bell was
raped by a man she once considered a
friend, leaving her with hopelessness
and thoughts of suicide, You, O Lord,
raised her up to become one of our
most amazing noncommissioned offi-
cers.
Lord, Your fingerprints are seen on
every sortie, every mission, and on the
precious lives of every airman, past
and present. And so today we can say
‘‘happy birthday’’ with humble grati-
tude.
We pray Your continued blessing on
our United States Air Force, which
today celebrates its 72nd birthday. We
pray also Your blessings upon these
Halls of Congress and on our United
States of America.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman
from South Carolina (Mr. WILSON)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina led
the Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
WELCOMING CHAPLAIN MAJOR
GENERAL STEVEN SCHAICK
The SPEAKER. Without objection,
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. COL-
LINS) is recognized for 1 minute.
There was no objection.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, today is a great day. It is the
birthday of the United States Air
Force and for those of us who serve. I
rise today to recognize not only that
birthday of the Air Force but to have
the great and distinct honor of having
Chief of Chaplains Steve Schaick, as
we have just heard, to be here. I have
the privilege of also calling him my
boss because I am in the Air Force as
well. He is a chaplain, and he is the top
of my chain. He is there for a reason.
He exemplifies what a chaplain means
and how they serve in our Air Force.
Throughout our country’s history,
men and women have awaited and an-
swered the call of duty, accomplishing
each mission with valor. Today, we ac-
knowledge the men and women who
have taken to the skies to defend our
country as members of the United
States Air Force.
As a chaplain in that United States
Air Force Reserves, I have had the
privilege to minister and work with
airmen since 2002. Their courage and
integrity both at home and abroad are
unmatched, and Chaplain Steven
Schaick is a testament to that courage
and integrity.
Chaplain Schaick is a native of Osh-
kosh, Wisconsin. He enlisted in the
United States Air Force in 1976, serving
for 4 years as an F–15 integrated avi-
onics component specialist. He is en-
dorsed by the Presbyterian Church,
U.S.A., and was commissioned in the
Air Force Reserves as a chaplain can-
didate in 1985 and into the Active Duty
chaplaincy in 1988.
Chaplain Schaick has served three
different major commands as a staff
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:22 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18SE7.004 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7760 September 18, 2019
chaplain, followed by a special duty as-
signment to Arlington National Ceme-
tery. He now serves as the Chief of
Chaplains of the United States Air
Force.
It is my honor to sponsor him to be
the guest chaplain of the United States
House of Representatives on this, the
Air Force’s birthday, September 18,
2019. Again, it is my pleasure to have
Chaplain Schaick with us today.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. The Chair will enter-
tain up to 15 further requests for 1-
minute speeches on each side of the
aisle.
f
HONORING BUFFALO FIRE
DEPARTMENT
(Mr. HIGGINS of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam
Speaker, this week, I was pleased to
announce the city of Buffalo Fire De-
partment has been awarded a Federal
grant of more than $8.9 million by the
Department of Homeland Security’s
Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emer-
gency Response program. With this
critical support, the Buffalo Fire De-
partment will be able to hire 50 addi-
tional firefighters.
The purpose of this grant is to make
certain that local fire departments are
able to respond quickly to emergencies
and at all hours.
Buffalo is home to an incredible team
of firefighters who work to protect our
community from fires and other emer-
gencies. Just 1 month ago, the depart-
ment received a separate grant of
$322,000 for equipment and training.
This Federal grant funding will go a
long way in strengthening the city’s
fire department and adding more dedi-
cated personnel who work tirelessly to
keep our community safe.
f
TIME IS NOW TO AX WIDOW’S TAX
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, yesterday, the conferees of
the National Defense Authorization
Act, NDAA, were announced, and I am
deeply grateful to serve another year
on this committee for fiscal year 2020.
I will continue to promote peace
through strength and work to cham-
pion repeal of the widow’s tax. Our sur-
viving spouses have waited long
enough.
As of this week, my bill, the Military
Surviving Spouses Equity Act, has 376
cosponsors from both sides of the aisle.
In fact, it has the highest number of
cosponsors of any bill in the current
Congress.
In a time of constant disagreement, I
am thankful to come together and for
the bipartisan support this bill has re-
ceived. I am disappointed it did not re-
ceive a standalone vote, but I will fight
to keep it in the NDAA. It is now time
to ax the widow’s tax.
I am dedicated to supporting our
servicemembers, veterans, and mili-
tary families. I look forward to work-
ing with the entire NDAA conference
committee and President Donald
Trump to advance this bipartisan legis-
lation.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
VAPING IS QUICKLY BECOMING A
PUBLIC HEALTH CRISIS
(Ms. BROWNLEY of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. BROWNLEY of California. Mr.
Speaker, recently, it was reported that
a seventh person has died from a
vaping-related illness in the United
States.
In response, the CDC recently an-
nounced that it has activated its emer-
gency operations center to investigate
what is quickly becoming a public
health crisis. It is becoming abun-
dantly clear that e-cigarettes are caus-
ing harmful health impacts among
both teens, approximately 2.4 million
students, and adults who use them.
While more research is needed, I be-
lieve this public health emergency re-
quires swift action by Congress to pre-
vent the marketing of these products
to young people. That is why I have in-
troduced the Stop Vaping Ads Act,
which will close the loophole in current
law and would ban e-cigarette adver-
tisements on broadcast media.
I invite my colleagues to join me in
support of this commonsense bill that
will help curb the onslaught of harmful
and dangerous e-cigarette ads.
f
HONORING CONGRESSMAN SEAN
DUFFY
(Mr. BUDD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BUDD. Mr. Speaker, on Sep-
tember 23, Congress will lose one of its
most dedicated Members as SEAN
DUFFY retires from the House.
I will miss his unwavering commit-
ment to conservative principles and
the way that he never backed down
from a fight. In fact, he welcomed
them. But he also engaged in a battle
of ideas, and he never made it personal.
It is because of this attitude that
freedom and liberty will be sustained a
little longer, and I wish we had more
like him. I also respected his legisla-
tive accomplishments, particularly his
commitment to protecting our State-
based system of insurance regulation,
just one of his many passions during
his time as chairman and ranking
member of the Housing and Insurance
Subcommittee.
Mr. Speaker, SEAN will be remem-
bered by me as a friend, a loving fa-
ther, a dedicated husband, and a hum-
ble public servant. I, for one, hope this
is not the last we hear or see of Con-
gressman SEAN DUFFY.
f
HONORING RONNIE LUPE
(Mr. O’HALLERAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to pay my respects to Ron-
nie Lupe, former chairman of the
White Mountain Apache Tribe, who
passed away last month at the age of
89.
During his time as a public servant,
Mr. Lupe fought for Tribal sovereignty
and worked extensively on water rights
issues. Mr. Lupe’s efforts aided the pas-
sage of the White Mountain Apache
Water Rights Quantification Act of
2009 and established a reservation-wide
clean drinking water system.
For his service to his Tribe, he was
recognized by former Arizona Governor
Jack Williams on the Arizona Commis-
sion of Indian Affairs in 1968.
A veteran, Mr. Lupe was a member of
the United States Marine Corps during
the Korean war.
Arizona lost an awesome voice for
Native American advancement. I feel
truly humbled to have known him. Pat
and I are keeping our thoughts with
Ronnie’s family and the entire White
Mountain Apache Tribe in our prayers
as they mourn his passing.
f
RECOGNIZING SPRING LAKE’S
150TH BIRTHDAY
(Mr. HUIZENGA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the village of Spring
Lake on its 150th birthday.
This past weekend, friends and resi-
dents of the small village in west
Michigan gathered together to cele-
brate and share memories of the com-
munity’s rich and storied history.
The village of Spring Lake first
began as a lumber town in 1838 when
Captain Benjamin Hopkins and his
family arrived from Canada. Soon
after, other settlers arrived and con-
structed additional sawmills, leading
to the village officially incorporating
in 1869. As the village developed, rail-
roads, resorts, and telephone lines all
helped the village grow into a bustling
community.
Today, the village is situated on the
beautiful shores of both Spring Lake
and the Grand River right next to Lake
Michigan, offering endless recreational
opportunities and a wide variety of
shops and services.
While the village has changed much
throughout the last 150 years, one
thing has remained constant, the close-
knit and welcoming community con-
tinues to make the village a special
place to live and raise a family.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:54 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18SE7.007 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7761
September 18, 2019
Mr. Speaker, let us join in celebra-
tion and in recognition of all former
and current residents of Spring Lake
Village as we celebrate its 150th birth-
day.
f
STATE OF GUN VIOLENCE IN THE
VIRGIN ISLANDS
(Ms. PLASKETT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, every
day, 100 Americans are killed with guns
and hundreds more are shot and in-
jured. That is 36,500 people a year who
lose their lives to gun violence. The ef-
fects extend far beyond those casual-
ties and shape the lives of millions of
Americans who witness it, know some-
one who was shot, or live in fear of the
next shooting. This senseless loss of
life is all too common in the United
States and its territories.
As of August 26, we have lost 26 lives
to gun violence in the Virgin Islands.
In 2018, the United Nations released a
report naming the territory as the new
murder capital in the Caribbean, with
52.64 murders per 100,000 people.
For the families, friends, and com-
munities of victims in the Virgin Is-
lands, this pain will never pass, just as
it will not pass for the loved ones of
thousands of other people who have
died from gun violence in the U.S.
Time for action is overdue. Earlier
this year, the House passed the Bipar-
tisan Background Checks Act of 2019,
requiring checks for all gun purchases.
We need to push for universal back-
ground checks, assistance and increas-
ing funds to border control for the Vir-
gin Islands and Puerto Rico to stop
guns coming into the territories, and
enhanced treatment and resources for
mental health.
I look forward to working with all to
come up with some form of sensible
gun law legislation.
f
b 1215
RECOGNIZING BILL DUNN
(Mr. BURCHETT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in recognition of my good friend, Bill
Dunn, a colleague of mine from my
time in the Tennessee General Assem-
bly.
Representative Dunn and I served to-
gether in the State house starting
when we were members of the same
freshman class in 1995. Since that time,
he has remained a strong champion for
fiscal conservatism and the rights of
the unborn.
Upon completing his current term,
Representative Dunn will retire from
his house seat after 26 years. Rep-
resentative Dunn has been a diligent
public servant, an excellent representa-
tive for his community, and, most im-
portantly, an honorable family man.
He and his wife, Stacy, have raised a
wonderful family of five children; and I
have not checked lately to see how
many grandchildren there are, but
there are a bunch of them, I am sure. I
am sure his retirement includes qual-
ity time with his family.
I wish Representative Dunn the best
of luck in the next chapter of his life
and thank him for his commitment to
our home State of Tennessee.
Bill Dunn is a good guy.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 1423, FORCED ARBITRA-
TION INJUSTICE REPEAL ACT;
WAIVING A REQUIREMENT OF
CLAUSE 6(A) OF RULE XIII WITH
RESPECT TO CONSIDERATION OF
CERTAIN RESOLUTIONS RE-
PORTED FROM THE COMMITTEE
ON RULES; AND PROVIDING FOR
CONSIDERATION OF MOTIONS TO
SUSPEND THE RULES
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, by direction of the Com-
mittee on Rules, I call up House Reso-
lution 558 and ask for its immediate
consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 558
Resolved, That at any time after adoption
of this resolution the Speaker may, pursuant
to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the
House resolved into the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1423) to amend
title 9 of the United States Code with respect
to arbitration. The first reading of the bill
shall be dispensed with. All points of order
against consideration of the bill are waived.
General debate shall be confined to the bill
and shall not exceed one hour equally di-
vided and controlled by the chair and rank-
ing minority member of the Committee on
the Judiciary. After general debate the bill
shall be considered for amendment under the
five-minute rule. In lieu of the amendment
in the nature of a substitute recommended
by the Committee on the Judiciary now
printed in the bill, it shall be in order to con-
sider as an original bill for the purpose of
amendment under the five-minute rule an
amendment in the nature of a substitute
consisting of the text of Rules Committee
Print 116-32 modified by the amendment
printed in part A of the report of the Com-
mittee on Rules accompanying this resolu-
tion. That amendment in the nature of a
substitute shall be considered as read. All
points of order against that amendment in
the nature of a substitute are waived. No
amendment to that amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute shall be in order except
those printed in part B of the report of the
Committee on Rules. Each such amendment
may be offered only in the order printed in
the report, may be offered only by a Member
designated in the report, shall be considered
as read, shall be debatable for the time speci-
fied in the report equally divided and con-
trolled by the proponent and an opponent,
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall
not be subject to a demand for division of the
question in the House or in the Committee of
the Whole. All points of order against such
amendments are waived. At the conclusion
of consideration of the bill for amendment
the Committee shall rise and report the bill
to the House with such amendments as may
have been adopted. Any Member may de-
mand a separate vote in the House on any
amendment adopted in the Committee of the
Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the
nature of a substitute made in order as origi-
nal text. The previous question shall be con-
sidered as ordered on the bill and amend-
ments thereto to final passage without inter-
vening motion except one motion to recom-
mit with or without instructions.
SEC. 2. The requirement of clause 6(a) of
rule XIII for a two-thirds vote to consider a
report from the Committee on Rules on the
same day it is presented to the House is
waived with respect to any resolution re-
ported through the legislative day of Sep-
tember 20, 2019, relating to a measure mak-
ing or continuing appropriations for the fis-
cal year ending September 30, 2020.
SEC. 3. It shall be in order at any time on
the legislative day of September 19, 2019, or
September 20, 2019, for the Speaker to enter-
tain motions that the House suspend the
rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV.
The Speaker or her designee shall consult
with the Minority Leader or his designee on
the designation of any matter for consider-
ation pursuant to this section.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CUELLAR). The gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia is recognized for 1 hour.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, for the purpose of debate
only, I yield the customary 30 minutes
to the gentlewoman from Arizona (Mrs.
LESKO), pending which I yield myself
such time as I may consume. During
consideration of this resolution, all
time yielded is for the purpose of de-
bate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members be given 5 legislative days
to revise and extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, on Tuesday, the House
Rules Committee met and reported a
rule, House Resolution 558, providing
for consideration of H.R. 1423, the FAIR
Act, under a structured rule.
The rule provides for 1 hour of gen-
eral debate equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minor-
ity member of the Committee on the
Judiciary.
The rule also provides same day au-
thority for a rule providing for the con-
sideration of a fiscal year 2020 CR and
provides blank suspension authority
through the legislative day of Friday,
September 20, 2019.
Mr. Speaker, 11 years ago, Kevin
Ziober joined the United States Navy
Reserve. In his own words, he did so to
‘‘help protect America’s liberties, free-
doms, and security.’’
From 2010 to 2012, Kevin worked dili-
gently for a Federal contractor in my
home State of California, helping to
grow the company from 18 employees
to more than 90.
When he found out that he would be
deployed in November of 2012, his em-
ployer decorated the office with navy-
color balloons and threw a surprise
party in his honor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:22 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18SE7.008 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7762 September 18, 2019
Unfortunately, the real surprise was
delivered to him 30 minutes after his
party. Kevin was fired. His employer
made it clear that his job would not be
waiting for him when he got back from
his deployment.
I wonder what my colleagues would
do if forced with the same cir-
cumstance of choosing country over
providing for their own families.
The Uniformed Services Employment
and Reemployment Rights Act protects
his rights as a reservist to deploy and
keep his job.
When Kevin returned from serving
his country in 2014 and tried to enforce
this very right, his employer filed a
motion to compel arbitration, and it
was granted.
Six months into his tenure with the
company, Kevin had been required to
sign several documents as a condition
of keeping his job. Those documents in-
cluded a forced arbitration clause,
which meant that Kevin would have no
access to the Federal court system—no
access. He would lose his right to a
jury trial, to any meaningful appeal,
and to a public or speedy proceeding of
any kind.
Mr. Speaker, Kevin and the thou-
sands of other Americans who have
been forced into arbitration pro-
ceedings are why we are here today. We
are here to ensure that Americans are
not forced to unknowingly agree to
surrender their constitutional rights.
Under the present system, when cor-
porations harm workers and con-
sumers, their cases are often funneled
into the confidential quasi-legal arbi-
tration system.
When thousands of Californians were
charged early termination fees that
were illegal under State law, DIRECTV
responded by forcing individual cus-
tomers into arbitration.
What exactly are consumers supposed
to do when it costs more to pursue a
case through arbitration than it would
if they were looking to recover a small
amount?
Instead of victims fighting their
cases together, big corporations can
get away with making millions ille-
gally by harming average Americans.
By allowing forced arbitration and pre-
venting class action lawsuits, we
incentivize this very bad behavior.
Mandatory arbitration has the poten-
tial to affect everyone. One story that
haunts me is that of Sister Irene
Morissette.
When she was 84 years old, Sister
Irene, an elderly Catholic nun, moved
to Chateau Vestavia, an assisted living
facility outside of Birmingham, Ala-
bama. While living at this facility, she
was brutally raped at 84 years of age.
The police found blood and semen on
her bed and her clothing.
The medical examiner documented
bleeding and injuries that indicated a
rape had occurred, but after the police
failed to bring a criminal case, Irene’s
family attempted to bring a civil suit
against Chateau Vestavia. Instead of
being able to pursue her case in court,
she was forced to arbitration. Irene,
unknowingly, had signed a forced arbi-
tration clause buried in the documents
required to live at the facility.
The arbitrator decided that, despite
the physical evidence of rape, besides
the blood and the semen on her cloth-
ing, the facility that was charged with
keeping her safe could not and would
not be held responsible.
Unfortunately, forced arbitration is
common practice among large chain
nursing facilities. Ninety percent of
these large facilities require forced ar-
bitration agreements.
Mr. Speaker, can you imagine trust-
ing your loved one, your mom or a
grandma, to be cared for at one of
these facilities and then finding out
that they have been brutally harmed
and that you could not seek a fair re-
course, no justice?
These facilities argue that if you
refuse to sign a forced arbitration
clause, you can just take your loved
one, take your business somewhere
else, go. But that choice isn’t a viable
choice, because the majority of these
large facilities, as I stated, 90 percent
of these large facilities require you to
sign an arbitration agreement.
b 1230
Many people don’t have another op-
tion, at least not one if they want to
live close to their loved ones or in their
home State. So, seniors must sign
away their right and be denied the op-
portunity to seek justice, just like Sis-
ter Irene.
What struck me the most about her
story is why the arbitrator did not rule
in her favor. The arbitrator said that
Sister Irene did not sound upset
enough in the audio recording to deter-
mine if she was really raped. What does
that mean? How many times have men
been judge and jury when deciding
women didn’t seem hurt enough, didn’t
fight back enough, didn’t wear the
right clothing, didn’t scream loud
enough, or didn’t wear her own
condom? Sister Irene was 84 years old,
for God’s sake. What does it take to
find responsibility in an act of violence
against an innocent nun?
I wonder how many other victims,
who have been forced into arbitration,
have heard similar statements of doubt
from private arbitrators. The worst
part is that we will never know. And
why is that? Because most arbitration
proceedings are not public. Nondisclo-
sure agreements and gag orders often
accompany mandatory arbitration. The
#MeToo movement taught us a valu-
able lesson about nondisclosure agree-
ments and forced arbitration. Without
forced arbitration, we could have
stopped Bill O’Reilly or Roger Ailes
from assaulting women and spewing
their hate on FOX News long ago.
Doing away with forced arbitration
means more victims can share their
stories and prevent abusers from harm-
ing others.
What I hope these stories make clear
is that arbitration, contrary to claims
of my colleagues, does not work for ev-
eryone. In fact, for most Americans, it
serves as a barrier to justice and a
legal shield for corporations. It is a
system that deters defendants from
seeking justice and small payouts. It is
a system that is fundamentally based
on tricking Americans into giving up
their rights.
That is why H.R. 1423 is so critically
important. This bill would restore the
rights of Americans by allowing them
to make the choice for themselves
about whether arbitration is right for
them. Ultimately, that is what this bill
is about: freedom to choose for every
American.
If arbitration is the amazing system
that my colleagues claim it is, then
Americans will flock to pursue their
claims through it. But if arbitration is,
in fact, the barrier to justice that it
appears to be for so many Americans,
then this bill will allow them to choose
for themselves how they want to pur-
sue that justice. Voting for this rule is
a step towards fighting the special in-
terests that oppress our constituents.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair would advise Members to not
traffic the well while another Member
is under recognition.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Representative TORRES for yielding me
the customary 30 minutes, and I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, we all want to protect
innocent people, we all want to protect
the little guy, and we all want to pro-
tect the elderly. That is why I would
remind my colleague that courts can
and have overturned unfair arbitration
clauses, and, certainly, if criminal acts
have been done, criminal charges
should be pursued.
Today, we consider a bill that dis-
regards private contracts and enriches
the wealthiest trial attorneys. We con-
sider a bill that my Democrat col-
leagues intended to protect the Amer-
ican people, but really it specifically
carves out an application to labor
unions. And why would it do that? Be-
cause the labor unions and trial law-
yers are the Democrats’ most ardent
supporters and donors. We consider a
bill that will hurt businesses and the
very consumers and employees it seeks
to protect.
The bill’s proponents advance the
idea that arbitration is unfair, coer-
cive, and harmful, but that is far from
the truth. In fact, I would like to read
some of the things that the U.S. Su-
preme Court has said about arbitration
agreements in various cases. They have
said: The advantages of arbitration are
many; it is usually cheaper and faster
than litigation, it can have simpler
procedural and evidentiary rules; it
normally minimizes hostility and is
less disruptive of ongoing and future
business dealings among the parties; it
is often more flexible in regard to
scheduling of time and places of hear-
ings and discovery devices; and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:22 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18SE7.011 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7763
September 18, 2019
U.S. Supreme Court in multiple rulings
also further recognized that the infor-
mality of arbitral proceedings is itself
desirable, reducing the cost and in-
creasing the speed of dispute and reso-
lution. And in other studies it has
proven, over and over again in multiple
studies, that arbitration actually has
better results for the small guy, for the
employee.
The bill’s proponents advance the
idea that arbitration is unfair, coer-
cive, and harmful. But again, I repeat,
that is far from the truth. Arbitration
is an important option in our legal sys-
tem. It allows us to resolve disputes
without costly litigation. It is easier,
faster, and cheaper.
Arbitration is well accepted and
available to those who wish not to
bring their disputes before Federal or
State courts. It is a way to avoid the
inflexibility, delays, and expenses of
litigation. In fact, an employee can
often set times better with arbitration
than they do with a court hearing. It is
especially useful in consumer disputes,
which typically involve smaller claims.
Aside from benefits in cost and time,
studies show that the results of arbi-
tration are as good, or often better re-
sults than one would get in court.
To be fair, I don’t believe that arbi-
tration is always appropriate. For ex-
ample, I, personally, do not agree with
mandatory binding arbitration in situ-
ations involving sexual assault. I would
be willing to work across the aisle with
my Democratic colleagues on a tai-
lored bill addressing the issue of sexual
assault, but this bill is way too wide
and targets arbitration across the
board.
This bill would shut some Americans
out of the justice system. Eliminating
arbitration means that Americans, who
can’t afford courtroom lawyers’ fees,
may never receive justice. Allowing
only those who can afford attorneys to
obtain justice is not justice.
While shutting out some Americans
from the justice system, this bill gives
a massive handout to trial lawyers,
who will greatly benefit from the huge
increase in litigation costs. Money-
hungry trial lawyers benefit from this
bill, not everyday consumers and em-
ployees.
In fact, an amendment that was of-
fered in Rules last night by Congress-
man SENSENBRENNER, who has been
here for years and studied this topic,
would have said, okay, arbitration
stays in place, the status quo. But
there is an option. If the trial lawyer
can tell the consumer, the client, how
much money it is going to cost to take
it to court—and that is reasonable, and
he had different ways that you would
determine if the trial attorney fees
were reasonable—then you can go
ahead. My Democrat colleagues in the
Rules committee rejected that amend-
ment, a reasonable amendment.
I believe if this bill passes, we will
see a rise in class action lawsuits and
the abuse that comes from it. The
rampant abuse in class action lawsuits
is why companies have chosen manda-
tory binding arbitrations in the first
place. If mandatory binding agree-
ments are invalidated, there will be
substantially more class action abuses.
Mr. Speaker, arbitration is bene-
ficial. It saves time and money for both
parties, and achieves just as good, if
not better, outcomes for those in-
volved.
Mr. Speaker, I urge opposition to the
rule, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. CART-
WRIGHT).
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Mr. Speaker, I
want to talk a little bit today about
accountability. Accountability is
something we teach our children. Let
me burden you with a short story.
About 20 years ago, I am sitting in
my kitchen. I think it was a Saturday
morning. My son, Mattie, who is 4
years old, was in the middle of the
kitchen floor and dropped a plate. It
landed at his feet. He was wearing
shoes. He looked up at me, I looked at
him, and he said to me, Dad, I didn’t do
it.
Well, it is a funny story and it is
cute, but the point is that you teach
your children about accountability.
You teach them to accept responsi-
bility, to make things right that they
have done wrong, and to move on with
their lives.
My wife, Marion, and I have two
boys, and we like to say we have done
a marvelous job teaching them about
accountability and taking proper re-
sponsibility.
But there is a poison in this country.
There is a pestilence that has been oc-
curring for at least a couple of genera-
tions. I want to say it started with the
Watergate era back in the seventies,
when people didn’t want to take ac-
countability and they didn’t want to
take responsibility. You heard phrases
come up like ‘‘plausible deniability.’’
And then we went on into the cor-
porate world and we had the Enron
scandal. Rather than taking account-
ability and responsibility, standing up
and admitting what they did and mak-
ing it right, no, what did they do? They
were shredding the documents as fast
as they could shred them.
It is routine in this country now for
people in positions of power and re-
sponsibility to say, ‘‘mistakes were
made,’’ not ‘‘I messed up.’’ ‘‘Mistakes
were made.’’ It is a pestilence in this
country to deny accountability and re-
sponsibility. It is unacceptable.
The question is: What do we do to
bring back accountability to the Amer-
ican culture? Well, the FAIR Act
makes a big step in that direction. It
invalidates forced arbitration clauses:
the ones that show up in the boiler
plate of the contracts that consumers
sign with every agreement we have
with a big corporation. It shows up in
the fine print. And if you take the time
to read it, it is not debatable, it is not
negotiable. You have to sign it or else
you have to not get the contract, not
get the account.
b 1245
Mr. Speaker, if you look at those
contracts, it makes you waive your
constitutional right, as Congress-
woman TORRES just said.
We have a constitutional right to go
to court to settle our disputes. Our
Founding Fathers and people in the
American Revolution fought and died
for that constitutional right.
Mr. Speaker, with the stroke of a
pen, you are allowed to give this away,
even though it is in the fine print. In-
stead, you have to go to a rigged and
secret arbitration process that the cor-
porations control and usually win. It
also means you can’t band together
with other claimants.
Think of what that means, Mr.
Speaker. It means if you have an ac-
count with a big corporation and they
decided to charge an extra $500 for the
year, even though that is in violation
of the contract, and it may be in viola-
tion of State law, who is going to bring
a case for $500? A lawyer won’t take
that case. These clauses prohibit band-
ing together in class actions and doing
the cases together.
What does the upshot of that mean?
It means that these corporations that
do it act with impunity. They are im-
munized from accountability. They can
do anything that they want without
having to account for it in court.
This is a license to steal. It is wrong,
and it goes against the American ideal
of responsibility and accountability,
what we try to teach our children. This
is not something that really applies to
small businesses. It applies to big cor-
porations.
Eighty-one out of the Fortune 100
corporations use these forced arbitra-
tion clauses, and almost nobody goes
to arbitration under them. Take Ama-
zon Prime, for example. They have 101
million subscribers to Amazon Prime.
In the last 5 years, there have been
only 15 arbitrations. That is because it
just doesn’t make sense. The econom-
ics don’t work. If you can’t band to-
gether and do it as a class action, then
it doesn’t work.
Class actions keep American corpora-
tions accountable and responsible.
That is why we don’t want to shut
them down.
My friend from across the aisle, the
gentlewoman from Arizona, just said
that this bill shuts some people out of
the justice system and that it is an im-
portant option. It is not an option.
That is the point of this bill. It is man-
datory. It is forced. They don’t have a
choice. They go into a secret and
rigged system.
Vote for the FAIR Act. I thank the
gentlewoman, Mrs. TORRES, for yield-
ing.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I would also like to expand on several
studies that have been done on this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:22 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18SE7.013 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7764 September 18, 2019
issue throughout the years. One is the
Searle study, another one done by the
Consumer Financial Protection Bu-
reau, and another one done by the U.S.
Chamber Institute for Legal Reform. In
all of these studies with different cases,
it was found that employees were three
times more likely to win in arbitration
than in court. Employees, on average,
won twice the amount of money
through arbitration. In this U.S. Cham-
ber Institute for Legal Reform report,
it specifically said the employee won in
arbitration an average of $520,630
versus in court, where the average was
$269,885.
It also said arbitration disputes were
resolved faster, on average: 569 days for
arbitration; litigation, 665 days. Both
seem long to me.
Mr. Speaker, 79 percent of arbitra-
tion cases were filed by employees who
made less than $100,000.
What I am saying is, let’s not throw
out the baby with the bathwater. Arbi-
tration has worked. It has worked for
years. It has proven repeatedly that it
is more cost-effective. In the cases of
these studies, the employees actually
got awarded more than they did, on av-
erage, when they went to court.
Let’s not forget all of those people
who have used trial attorneys. Mr.
Speaker, you hear it over and over
again, where the attorneys got all the
money and the victims got hardly any-
thing.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
When Wells Fargo opened up 3.5 mil-
lion fake accounts, including 178,972
from Arizona, Wells Fargo tried, since
2013, to use forced arbitration to block
lawsuits, including a class-action case.
These people were charged excess over-
draft fees when their accounts were not
overdrawn.
As it relates to labor, there are 60.1
million workers who make up a major-
ity of nonunion private-sector employ-
ees who are subject to forced arbitra-
tion clauses. These employees are told
that if they want the job or want to
keep their current job, they must sign
away their right to their day in court
and submit to forced arbitration agree-
ments.
In contrast, the collective bargaining
process includes protections that are
unavailable to many nonunion work-
ers, such as rejecting unfair employ-
ment terms. In collective bargaining,
both the company and the union are
represented by counsel and can agree
on arbitration before the dispute arises
to an informed and transparent basis.
The collective bargaining process can
also involve agreement over other im-
portant protections, such as truly neu-
tral arbitrators, better procedures, and
transparent decisionmaking.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Maryland (Mr.
RASKIN), a distinguished member of the
Rules Committee.
Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, have our
colleagues across the aisle forgotten
that the right to a jury trial was as es-
sential a cause of the American Revo-
lution as was representative democracy
and the denial of voting rights itself?
John Adams said: ‘‘Representative
government and trial by jury are the
heart and the lungs of liberty. Without
them, we have no other fortification
against being ridden like horses,
fleeced like sheep, worked like cattle,
and fed and clothed like swine and
hounds.’’
The massive suppression of trial by
jury rights by British authorities was a
critical cause of our Revolution. One of
the charges that Thomas Jefferson lev-
eled against the British in the Declara-
tion of Independence was ‘‘depriving us
in many cases of the benefits of trial
by jury.’’
Now, today, we have not a foreign
king and government trying to impose
a closed Star Chamber on the Amer-
ican people but certain large corpora-
tions chartered by the States that seek
to divest consumers and employees of
their sacred trial by jury and due proc-
ess rights by conditioning their em-
ployment or their market agreements
on relegating them to closed-door bind-
ing arbitration sessions where all of
their rights are vanquished and the
whole process, from start to finish, is
skewed in favor of the corporations
that control and design the pro-
ceedings.
This legislation, the FAIR Act, vindi-
cates the most essential rights of the
American people.
Amazingly, the GOP floor leader ad-
mits that forcing victims of sexual har-
assment into compulsory arbitration
proceedings is unfair and agrees with
us that they should not be forced into
compulsory arbitration. She would like
us to strip everything else out of the
bill and boil it down to that.
If it is not fair for victims of sexual
harassment to be forced into forced ar-
bitration, why is it fair for victims of
racial harassment, consumer fraud,
wrongful termination, or any of the
other causes of action that she would
exclude from the legislation?
I am glad that the gentlewoman
agrees with us on the importance of
not subjecting victims of sexual har-
assment to closed-door Star Chamber
proceedings, but this concession from
the minority gives away the whole
game. If it is unfair to coerce them, it
is unfair to coerce everyone else, too.
The key to understanding this legis-
lation is that any consumer or em-
ployee who wants to enter into binding
arbitration with a corporation can do
so and is perfectly free to do so after a
conflict has arisen, but it should not be
compelled as a condition of employ-
ment, purchase, or rental, essentially
elevating the power of corporations
that have been chartered by the gov-
ernment over the essential constitu-
tional rights of the people.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, sometimes I don’t un-
derstand why my Democratic col-
leagues put forward certain bills and
not other bills, and this is not a bill
that—I don’t know about my col-
leagues, but I haven’t had a lot of con-
stituents talk to me about this bill and
the need for it.
In fact, I have in front of me a recent
poll that was done. It was conducted in
March 2019. There were 1,000 registered
voters who were polled. In that poll, it
asked: ‘‘Is arbitration viewed much
more favorably than both class-action
and individual lawsuits?’’
On this, it said in all cases that arbi-
tration was viewed more favorably by
our constituents than individual law-
suits.
It goes on to break this down among
Republicans, independents, and Demo-
crats. In this case, Republicans
thought that arbitration was a better
format by 47 percent; independents, 36
percent; and half and half, another 36
percent. Democrats thought arbitra-
tion was better than going to court, 44
percent, and then another 34 percent
added to 10 percent. Our constituents—
and I may not be reading this right be-
cause it is in black and white instead
of color. I will show it to the gentle-
woman later.
If you add the two together, it clear-
ly shows that Republicans, independ-
ents, and Democrats favor arbitration
over going to court, and it is probably
because of cases like this.
In fact, the Consumer Financial Pro-
tection Bureau found numerous prob-
lems in its study to be associated with
reliance on class-action lawsuits for re-
covery on consumer claims. In addi-
tion, class-action lawsuits also have
presented other problems, including
scandal involving fabricated testimony
bought and sold to support false
claims.
For example, multiple renowned
class-action lawyers have been exposed
and convicted of such behavior. One of
them, William Lerach of Milberg
Weiss, told The Wall Street Journal
that illegal kickbacks to people re-
cruited to file class-action lawsuits is
an industry practice. He and fellow
trial lawyer Melvyn Weiss engineered a
$250 million criminal scheme to pay
people to sue companies, lied about it
in court, and became Federal prisoners.
Another of American’s most promi-
nent trial lawyers, Richard Scruggs of
Mississippi, pled guilty in March 2018
to bribing a State judge to obtain more
legal fees.
I have already talked about how the
U.S. Supreme Court, through multiple
cases, has said that arbitration is a
good practice, better in many cases
than going to court. I have already
talked about multiple studies that
have studied the analysis between arbi-
tration and court; that employees, on
average, get awarded more money
through arbitration than going to
court; and that it helps employees and
employers with flexibility of sched-
uling of time instead of going to court.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:22 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18SE7.014 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7765
September 18, 2019
This has been a practice that has
worked successfully for many years,
and this is such a broad stroke that my
Democratic colleagues are doing.
I continue to oppose it, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
b 1300
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I would like to inquire first
from my colleague if she is prepared to
close.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I am.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the pre-
vious question, I will offer an amend-
ment to the rule to ensure that, if you
like your contract, you can keep your
contract. My amendment would make
this bill apply only prospectively, be-
cause in this bill it is retroactive un-
less the consumer chooses otherwise.
Americans enter into agreements
with one another with the assumption
that the law will not change the deal
they made. This amendment would en-
sure that, if you like your contract and
you are the small guy, you can keep
your contract.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent to insert the text of my amend-
ment in the RECORD, along with extra-
neous material, immediately prior to
the vote on the previous question.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Arizona?
There was no objection.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, in closing,
this bill will impose costly litigation
on employees and consumers since ar-
bitration offers a faster, cheaper, and
easier way to resolve disputes. It also
freezes out Americans who can’t afford
expensive lawyer fees from our justice
system.
We should not be considering a bill
that promotes injustice and inequality
in our system. This bill is nothing but
a giveaway to wealthy trial lawyers.
Mr. Speaker, I urge ‘‘no’’ on the pre-
vious question, ‘‘no’’ on the underlying
measure, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
Before I conclude, I would like to
start by thanking Mr. JOHNSON and Mr.
NADLER for bringing this critical piece
of legislation to the floor.
Mr. Speaker, my colleagues have re-
peatedly argued that this legislation is
for trial lawyers. Let me tell you about
Allen.
Allen tried to hold American Express
accountable for high swipe fees in a
class action lawsuit with other small
businesses. Instead, he was forced to go
at it alone in arbitration, where he
quickly found out that, even if he won
his case, he would lose because it would
cost much more to bring his claim than
he could hope to ever recover. Allen
lost his case after appealing all the
way to the Supreme Court.
Recently, some very large companies
like Walgreens, CVS, and Safeway have
taken American Express to trial over
the very same issue. The difference
here is that they are large enough to
have been able to negotiate contracts
without forced arbitration clauses.
I have heard it said that the FAIR
Act is bad for small businesses. It is
quite the opposite. Corporate America
claims the FAIR Act outlaws all arbi-
tration clauses. That is simply not
true. The FAIR Act does not apply to
business-to-business arbitrations.
The bill protects workers, consumers,
and small businesses with antitrust
cases. Companies like Walmart or
Exxon are not protected from forced
arbitration under the FAIR Act.
I could share many more of these sto-
ries, but our time here is limited.
It shocks me that my colleague is so
opposed to fair representation when
our Founding Fathers recognized the
importance of access to legal counsel,
and every day on this very floor we
pledge ‘‘with liberty and justice for
all’’—for all.
I do agree with my colleagues, Mr.
Speaker, that the biggest special inter-
est at play here is the corporations
that want to protect their top execu-
tives who sexually assault their em-
ployees; the cable companies who
charge illegal fees, making millions in
profits; the credit card companies that
charge exorbitant fees, crippling small
businesses; and many others that use
forced arbitration to escape justice.
There are plenty of special interests
that are fighting to keep using this
broken system, and my colleague has
tried to flip that narrative to make it
seem as if the underdog will be hurt by
this legislation—the underdog of bil-
lionaires. Nothing could be further
from the truth.
Let’s not forget whom this bill is for.
This bill is about fighting for veterans
like Kevin, for our loved ones in nurs-
ing homes like Sister Irene, for small
businessowners and every other victim
of forced arbitration.
Mr. Speaker, we have tossed around a
lot of legal terms in this debate, but at
its core, this bill is about justice.
In conclusion, I would like to tell
about a horrific experience suffered by
a customer of Massage Envy in L.A.
County.
Lilly was sexually assaulted by a
therapist, and after the assault, Lilly
tried and tried to cancel her member-
ship to this service, but the company
repeatedly put roadblocks in her way.
A year and a half later, she downloaded
the Massage Envy app on her phone to
cancel her membership. Hidden in the
fine print of the app was a forced arbi-
tration clause. Lilly filed a lawsuit.
Like hundreds of other women who
have been assaulted, now Massage
Envy is using forced arbitration to pre-
vent Lilly from getting justice, at-
tempting to force her and other women
into arbitration to keep it a secret.
Years later, she still has not seen an
outcome.
By isolating survivors of sexual as-
sault, wage theft, and discrimination
and denying them the leverage of class
action suits, we discourage other vic-
tims from coming forward. While the
victims wait in limbo, navigating a po-
tentially rigged arbitration system,
their perpetrators are free to continue
to rape, to continue to steal, and to
continue their bad behavior.
Forced arbitration is bad for work-
ers, small businesses, and consumers,
and this bill is about giving Americans
a chance to fight against powerful spe-
cial interests.
Mr. Speaker, as my colleagues con-
sider this legislation, I ask you: Will
we continue to silence victims, or will
we give them the freedom to make
their own choice to fight against the
injustice that they have suffered?
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
the rule and a ‘‘yes’’ vote on the pre-
vious question.
The material previously referred to
by Mrs. LESKO is as follows:
AMENDMENT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 558
At the end of the resolution, add the
following:
SEC. 4. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this resolution, the amendment print-
ed in section 5 shall be in order as though
printed as the last amendment in part B of
the report of the Committee on Rules accom-
panying this resolution if offered by Rep-
resentative Lesko of Arizona or a designee.
That amendment shall be debatable for 10
minutes equally divided and controlled by
the proponent and an opponent.
SEC. 5. The amendment referred to in sec-
tion 4 is as follows:
At the end of section 401 of chapter 4 of
title 9 of the United States Code, as added by
section 3 of the bill, add the following:
‘‘(7) the term ‘solicited party’ means a con-
tracting party asked to agree to a predispute
arbitration agreement or to a predispute
joint-action waiver; and
‘‘(8) the term ‘soliciting party’ means a
contracting party who asked a solicited
party to agree to a predispute arbitration
agreement or to a predispute joint-action
waiver.’’.
In section 402(a) of chapter 4 of title 9 of
the United States Code, as added by section
3 of the bill, insert
‘‘unless the solicited party seeks to enforce
such agreement, or such waiver, against the
soliciting party and the agreement or waiver
was agreed to before the date of enactment
of this Act’’ before the period at the end.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Mr.
Speaker, I yield back the balance of
my time, and I move the previous ques-
tion on the resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:22 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18SE7.015 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7766 September 18, 2019
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess for a pe-
riod of less than 15 minutes.
Accordingly (at 1 o’clock and 9 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1315
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 1 o’clock and
15 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed. Votes will be taken
in the following order:
Ordering the previous question on
House Resolution 558;
Adoption of House Resolution 558, if
ordered; and
Suspending the rules and passing
H.R. 4285.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 1423, FORCED ARBITRA-
TION INJUSTICE REPEAL ACT;
WAIVING A REQUIREMENT OF
CLAUSE 6(A) OF RULE XIII WITH
RESPECT TO CONSIDERATION OF
CERTAIN RESOLUTIONS RE-
PORTED FROM THE COMMITTEE
ON RULES; AND PROVIDING FOR
CONSIDERATION OF MOTIONS TO
SUSPEND THE RULES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on ordering
the previous question on the resolution
(H. Res. 558) providing for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 1423) to amend
title 9 of the United States Code with
respect to arbitration; waiving a re-
quirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII
with respect to consideration of certain
resolutions reported from the Com-
mittee on Rules; and providing for con-
sideration of motions to suspend the
rules, on which the yeas and nays were
ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 228, nays
195, not voting 11, as follows:
[Roll No. 533]
YEAS—228
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallego
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—195
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—11
Abraham
Bass
Clyburn
Crawford
Cummings
Garamendi
Mast
McEachin
Ryan
Thompson (MS)
Webster (FL)
b 1343
Messrs. GALLAGHER, COLE, FLO-
RES, CRENSHAW, MURPHY of North
Carolina, SMITH of New Jersey, and
BILIRAKIS changed their vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mr. RUSH changed his vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 228, nays
196, not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 534]
YEAS—228
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:22 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18SE7.018 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7767
September 18, 2019
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—196
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Clyburn
Crawford
Cummings
Garamendi
Mast
McEachin
Ryan
Thompson (MS)
Webster (FL)
b 1350
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AF-
FAIRS EXPIRING AUTHORITIES
ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4285) to amend title 38,
United States Code, to extend and mod-
ify certain authorities and require-
ments relating to the Department of
Veterans Affairs, and for other pur-
poses, on which the yeas and nays were
ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 417, nays 1,
not voting 16, as follows:
[Roll No. 535]
YEAS—417
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:22 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE7.003 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7768 September 18, 2019
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—1
Mooney (WV)
NOT VOTING—16
Abraham
Clyburn
Crawford
Cummings
Garamendi
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Mast
McEachin
Ratcliffe
Rooney (FL)
Ryan
Stivers
Thompson (MS)
Turner
Webster (FL)
Wexton
b 1401
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia. Mr. Speak-
er, on September 18, on rollcall No. 535 for
passage of H.R. 4285, the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act of 2019,
I mistakenly voted ‘‘nay’’ when I meant to vote
‘‘aye’’ in support of the bill.
f
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 3632
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to remove Rep-
resentative COHEN of Tennessee as a co-
sponsor of H.R. 3632.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
OMAR). Is there objection to the re-
quest of the gentleman from Oregon?
There was no objection.
f
HONORING PRISCILLA GARDNER
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I want
to take a moment to honor a distin-
guished member of my district. Pris-
cilla Gardner has been a staple of the
Jersey City community during her 50-
year career at the Jersey City Free
Public Library. Priscilla is known for
many successes during her time there.
She created the library’s first com-
puter learning center when the inter-
net was in its infancy.
Ms. Gardner established the Jersey
City Free Public Library Foundation
to raise desperately needed funds to
improve and expand the library when
necessary, a successful venture that
still exists today.
Ms. Gardner was project director
when they built the first new library
since 1962, a gorgeous new facility with
community and children’s areas that
opened in 2004.
Ms. Gardner drove fundraising efforts
for the library to have a bookmobile,
one that provided residents with 2,000
books, computer terminals, and other
media stations.
Most importantly, Ms. Gardner has
been instrumental in the renovation
and restoration of Jersey City’s his-
toric 120-year-old main library.
Ms. Gardner leaves the library and
her city a much better place. Ms. Gard-
ner will be sorely missed, and I wish
her all the best in her retirement.
f
CELEBRATING 72ND BIRTHDAY OF
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to bring attention to and cele-
brate the birthday of the United States
Air Force.
Today’s Air Force traces its lineage
to the U.S. Signal Corps in 1907 but of-
ficially became its own branch as part
of the National Security Act of 1947.
During this period, the Air Force has
been on the front lines of racial inte-
gration, helped keep the city of Berlin
fed for 11 months, placed the first arti-
ficial communications satellite into
orbit, and continually maintained
round-the-clock flights of an airborne
command post for three decades.
More significantly, their vigilance
and reach have deterred aggression
while their speed, power, and sacrifice
of life have restored peace.
Today, on the 72nd birthday of the
Air Force, the branch has grown into a
staple of the United States defense
community. With over 600,000 Active
Duty, Reserve, and civilian personnel,
thousands of whom serve at MacDill
Air Force base in Tampa, it is impera-
tive we give these American heroes,
past and present, the respect that they
deserve.
Please join me in wishing the United
States Air Force a happy birthday and
honoring the lives of all who have
served.
f
AMERICANS MUST NOT FAIL TO
CONFRONT CLIMATE CHANGE
(Mr. COSTA asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, this
morning, I heard moving testimony
from some of the young people leading
the fight against climate change, in-
cluding Greta Thunberg. It was inspir-
ing to see the faces leading the next
generation.
We must work together across the
aisle to confront these challenges that
will be faced now and by the next gen-
erations, and our time is running out.
In the San Joaquin Valley of Cali-
fornia, which I represent, I have wit-
nessed the devastating effects of cli-
mate change for too long, the droughts,
the fires.
As a farmer, I know firsthand the
struggle that our agricultural commu-
nities go through, and I know that cli-
mate change isn’t making them any
easier.
As I have said before and I will say
again, mitigating and adapting to the
effects of climate change will require a
multipronged, commonsense approach.
We must not fail to confront these
challenges.
As today’s testimony reminded us,
the most devastating effects of climate
change will be the impact not only
today but of the young and future gen-
erations to come. I refuse to sit by and
do nothing.
For years, in California and Wash-
ington, I have worked for meaningful
solutions to address climate change,
and that will continue.
f
HONORING CAROL SMOLENSKI
(Mr. OLSON asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise
to honor an extraordinary leader on
her retirement, Carol Smolenski.
She has been involved in ECPAT for
20 years as the executive director, a re-
nowned organization with a single mis-
sion: end child exploitation and traf-
ficking.
Two decades ago, Carol noticed that
America did not have an ECPAT-like
organization like some other nations
had, and so she took charge. ECPAT-
USA was born.
Carol’s mission has been pure and
simple: raise awareness of modern-day
slavery in America and end human
trafficking in our world.
As Carol moves on, I would like to let
her hear some Texas wisdom. Carol
may not be in a class by herself, but
whatever class she is in, it don’t take
long to call the roll. I thank Carol. She
has saved lives.
f
HONORING PURPLE HEART
RECIPIENTS
(Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York asked and was given permis-
sion to address the House for 1 minute
and to revise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of my bill, the Na-
tional Purple Heart Hall of Honor Com-
memorative Coin Act, which is sched-
uled for a vote on the House floor to-
morrow.
George Washington himself created
the Purple Heart in the closing days of
the Revolutionary War. Since it was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:54 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE7.001 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7769
September 18, 2019
revived to honor veterans of World War
I, it has been awarded to nearly 2 mil-
lion brave service men and women, yet
there is no comprehensive list of Pur-
ple Heart recipients.
The National Purple Heart Hall of
Honor located in my district in New
Windsor, New York, was created to col-
lect and preserve the names and stories
of the men and women wounded or
killed in service of our Nation. The
proceeds of this coin, which will be pro-
duced nearby at the West Point Mint,
will support the hall in its critical mis-
sion, along with other programs that
help veterans and their families.
Today, I am thinking of two men who
inspired our work on this bill. One was
my dad, who was a Navy vet who was
hurt on the USS Manchester and who
taught me the reverence we must have
for our service men and women. The
other was Republican Senator Bill
Larkin, a New York State Senator, a
dear friend who passed away just days
ago. He and I worked closely to ad-
vance the mission of the hall.
I also thank the Military Order of the
Purple Heart and volunteers like
Stephanie Keegan, who helped round
up 300 of our colleagues in support of
this important legislation and who will
make tomorrow’s vote a reality.
f
SUPPORTING WITHDRAWAL OF
THE WOTUS RULE
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to commend Andrew Wheel-
er, Administrator at EPA, and R.D.
James, administrator at the Army
Corps of Engineers, for withdrawing
the very devastating WOTUS rule, the
waters of the United States rule that
was put in about 4 years ago under the
Obama administration which went way
beyond the bounds of what the Clean
Water Act passed and was intended by
this Congress in 1972.
It has been devastating to farmers,
ranchers, and others outside that do
things with the management of water
seeming to be not just in what is called
navigable waterways but every mud
puddle across the United States.
This was a massive overreach by the
previous administration on that, and
we can put this back on a better path
so that we have the type of manage-
ment that actually does help keep our
water clean in this country but also
not onerous regulations that make it
impossible to farm and ranch in this
country.
We have seen farmers receive mil-
lion-dollar fines because of merely re-
engaging crops have been fallow for a
while or changing a crop, which is way
beyond the scope of what the Clean
Water Act intended and had provisions
for exemptions for agriculture.
It is a great step. Thank you, EPA
and Army Corps, for the repeal of this
measure.
IMPORTANCE OF TEACHING
CLIMATE CHANGE IN SCHOOLS
(Ms. LEE of California asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. LEE of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize the
importance of teaching climate change
in schools.
This Friday, on September 20, stu-
dents from around the world will be
protesting the need to combat climate
change. Led by Greta Thunberg, a cli-
mate activist from Sweden who boldly
skipped school to protest the need for
more climate action, her act of defi-
ance has evolved into a movement and
set precedent for a generation of cli-
mate activism. More than 25 percent of
America’s students are taking action
to urge us to address climate change.
In order to meaningfully act upon
our climate change and eliminate cli-
mate change, young people need edu-
cation on its causes, consequences, and
possible solutions. That is why I am in-
troducing a resolution to support cli-
mate change education in American
schools.
It is a fact that American students
do not learn enough about climate
change. We need to teach every young
person the human impacts of climate
change and how to address our warm-
ing planet before it is too late. I urge
my colleagues to support this impor-
tant resolution and to hear the voices
of the students protesting in Friday’s
climate strikes.
f
b 1415
HONORING THE MEMORY OF SER-
GEANT FIRST CLASS BARRETO-
ORTIZ
(Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico asked and was given permission to
address the House for 1 minute and to
revise and extend her remarks.)
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Madam Speaker, I rise to honor
Sergeant First Class Elis Barreto Ortiz,
fallen in Afghanistan on September 5.
When Sergeant Barreto enlisted 10
years ago, he followed the tradition of
many Puerto Ricans, including his fa-
ther, in answering the call to defend
America.
He served with distinction, earning
many awards and the praise of his com-
rades. Now he joins those who also
made the ultimate sacrifice for free-
dom.
The people of Puerto Rico share the
pain that fills this hero’s family in his
small hometown of Morovis and his
unit’s base at Fort Bragg.
Nothing can fill the void for his par-
ents or his wife and children, but we
must resolve that his sacrifice will be
remembered and honored, and his
memory will always endure.
May you rest in peace, Sergeant
Barreto, a hero and a proud Puerto
Rican.
STEPHANIE TIMOTEO’S 100TH
BIRTHDAY
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker,
Stephanie Timoteo, a resident of
Bridgeton in South Jersey, turned 100
years old on August 25.
Stephanie has always been an incred-
ibly active person in her community.
She values faith, family, and heritage
as the most important aspects of her
life.
She was born into a family of Polish
immigrants, and in her midtwenties,
she became a seamstress and she made
uniforms for soldiers during World War
II.
After the war, Stephanie spent most
of her time with her children, but she
continued to work at home as a seam-
stress and a dressmaker.
Over the years, Stephanie has given
her time as a den mother, a Girl Scout
leader, a Christ Child volunteer, a coor-
dinator for the Polish American Club,
and many, many, many other roles.
They are actually countless.
Now she loves to crochet, read, and
spend time with her seven grand-
children and nine great-grandchildren.
Happy birthday to Stephanie. We are
incredibly lucky to have her. May God
bless her. South Jersey is proud of her;
New Jersey is proud of her; and Amer-
ica is proud of her.
f
HONORING GENERAL ROBERT P.
CARSON, THE CITADEL MASCOT
(Mr. CUNNINGHAM asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to honor the life of General
Robert P. Carson, the beloved bulldog
mascot of The Citadel, who passed
away this Friday.
The General came from a distin-
guished lineage, and his relatives in-
clude former mascots of the University
of Georgia, the United States Marine
Corps, and Mississippi State Univer-
sity.
The General’s caretaker, Dr. John
Bradford, reported that on game days,
he would often find the bulldog waiting
in the corner of his backyard, facing
the stadium. He just couldn’t wait to
fire those cannons, and his spirit
helped his fellow Bulldogs pull off an
incredible upset this past Saturday.
The General was with his fellow mas-
cot, Boo X, when he passed away. The
two were the pride of The Citadel cam-
pus and cherished members of the in-
stitution.
Anyone with a pet knows how deeply
they impact our lives, and I offer my
sincere condolences to the entire Cita-
del community.
Go ‘Dogs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18SE7.026 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7770 September 18, 2019
REAUTHORIZING SECTION 215 OF
THE PATRIOT ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GOHMERT) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the minority
leader.
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker,
today in our Judiciary Committee was
quite interesting. For some people, it
was quite a role reversal.
We had a hearing on the potential re-
authorization of the FISA courts and
discussion about powers of our DOJ,
FBI, and NSA under what is often re-
ferred to as section 215.
It was interesting in the way of role
reversals because, for years, we have
been told that Democrats are the real
civil libertarians. They are the ones
who are trying to defend privacy
rights, rights of Americans to think
what they want, do what they want,
and without being interrupted or spied
upon by the Federal Government.
Yet, today, over and over, we heard
apologies basically from our Demo-
cratic friends to the representative of
the Department of Justice, the FBI,
and National Security Administration
for comments of some Republicans.
There really was no need to apolo-
gize. We weren’t attacking these three
individual witnesses, but there are
issues that are still unresolved that
many of my friends across the aisle
used to be concerned about, privacy
and Fourth Amendment rights that are
supposed to protect us from improper
search and seizure or spying, or sur-
veillance being one of the more impor-
tant. So we had these witnesses.
It was interesting, and if I were our
friend Israel, I would be very con-
cerned, because I asked these rep-
resentatives, first of all, does the De-
partment of Justice, the FBI, or the
NSA consider Russia to be a known
terrorist organization under section
215. Each of the representatives indi-
cated, in turn, that they could not an-
swer that question.
Well, the silence seemed to speak
volumes to me. It should have been an
easy question to answer.
I asked about Israel. Does the DOJ,
FBI, or NSA consider the Ambassador
from Israel to be a representative of a
terrorist organization, and they
couldn’t answer that question.
That is quite interesting.
But my concern arose out of reading
and hearing, in prior years, about how
apparently Jeff Sessions was surveilled
because he was speaking to a Russian
Ambassador, and there were reports
that the Ambassador from Israel had
been surveilled.
So, under 215, they are supposed to be
part of either a known terrorist or an
ally, someone who identifies with a
known terrorist organization.
So it is interesting that things have
evolved the way they have so that our
own intelligence can’t tell us whether
Russia or Israel is considered a ter-
rorist organization. It is quite alarm-
ing.
But ever since I first got here, my
first term, when we took up reauthor-
ization of the PATRIOT Act—and I un-
derstood when the PATRIOT Act was
passed, it was just days after, maybe a
week or so after 9/11, and we didn’t
know who had hit us, were they about
to hit us again, were 3,000 or more peo-
ple going to be dying any day again
and again.
So I wasn’t here, but Congress passed
this overarching bill that gave way too
much power to the government, but I
understand the atmosphere here at the
time.
Then section 215 came up for reau-
thorization, as has the FISA courts in
recent years. It is important that we
continue to take a look at those. I
think it is extremely important that
we have sunsets; otherwise, if there is
not the chance that these powers will
go away, then we always have trouble,
no matter whether it is a Democrat or
a Republican administration, always
have trouble getting people to come up
and speak frankly or get records so we
know what may have occurred, wheth-
er it was abused or not.
But I go to section 215, and I have
been concerned about some of this lan-
guage since I first got here.
As a former litigator, prosecutor,
judge, chief justice, I know words mean
things. This section says that, basi-
cally, the FBI can make an application
for an order requiring production of
tangible things for an investigation to
obtain foreign intelligence information
not concerning a U.S. person or to pro-
tect against international terrorism or
clandestine intelligence activity.
Now, I asked this several years ago
when this was being pushed for reau-
thorization: What does ‘‘clandestine in-
telligence activity’’ mean? What does
that mean? Because, to me, if I am the
judge, you come to me and you want a
warrant and you say, ‘‘We have caught
somebody engaged in clandestine intel-
ligence activities,’’ wow, that is so
broad.
So the question I asked today I asked
years ago: Could that mean that, if my
neighbor is peering, watching my yard
from behind his or her curtain—well,
that is clandestine. They are hiding be-
hind a curtain. They are trying to see
what is going on. That is gathering in-
telligence. So would that justify a war-
rant from the FISA court?
Well, they couldn’t answer that ques-
tion, and they never have. They never
have attempted to answer that ques-
tion.
In fact, years ago, when it was reau-
thorized, the representatives of DOJ,
CIA, NSA, they were all saying:
‘‘Look, that really doesn’t come into
play, particularly.’’
‘‘Oh, well, good. Then let’s eliminate
it.’’
‘‘Well, no. We don’t want to elimi-
nate our ability to get a warrant based
on clandestine intelligence activities.’’
‘‘Well, what does that mean? How has
it been used?’’
Couldn’t get an answer, but they sure
wanted to keep it in there.
What does that mean? It doesn’t say
‘‘foreign clandestine intelligence.’’ It
doesn’t say ‘‘terrorist clandestine in-
telligence.’’
So words mean things. Why do they
keep wanting that language in there?
It used to be not as big of a concern
until we find out that the FISA courts,
basically—we might call them the RS
courts instead of the FISA courts. The
FISA courts are basically RS courts,
rubberstamp courts because, basically,
when the Federal Government comes
in, they get what they want.
I was one, having, again, been a
judge, I had law officers come before
me many times. Sometimes they would
come to my house at 2 or 3 in the
morning. They would need a warrant
quickly, and the requirements of the
Constitution are very clear.
I just happen to have a copy of the
Constitution. Amendment IV says:
‘‘The right of the people to be secure in
their persons, houses, papers, and ef-
fects, against unreasonable searches
and seizures, shall not be violated, and
no warrants shall issue, but upon prob-
able cause, supported by oath or affir-
mation, and particularly describing the
place to be searched, and the persons or
things to be seized.’’
That particular description, those
words, are very important, as are the
two words, ‘‘probable cause.’’
b 1430
We were taught, and as a judge I ap-
plied it, that if a law officer wants a
warrant—sometimes there were FBI
who would come and sometimes they
would come with other law officers—
but they knew, under the Constitu-
tion—they normally did a very good
job—you have to have an affidavit that
establishes there is probable cause to
believe a crime was committed and
probable cause to believe the person
whose records were sought to be seized
had probably committed the crime. It
is not enough to just allege we have
probable cause to believe a crime was
committed and this person committed
it. That is not enough. The affidavit
must describe facts—not conclusions,
but facts—that establish that, yeah,
probably a crime was committed and
probably this person did it and that is
why we need this record, that is why
we need this search warrant, and that
is why we need to be able to go look for
those specific records, specific things.
Imagine my surprise when a FISA
court order was leaked—and it was an
order by the FISA court here in Wash-
ington—and it says, it orders, it was
ordered:
The custodian of records shall produce to
the NSA on service of this order and con-
tinue production on an ongoing daily basis
thereafter for the duration of this order, un-
less otherwise ordered by the court, all call
detail records or telephoning metadata cre-
ated by Verizon for communications 1) be-
tween the United States and abroad, or 2)
wholly within the United States, including
local telephone calls. This order does not re-
quire Verizon to produce telephone and
metadata for communications wholly origi-
nating and terminating in foreign countries.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18SE7.029 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7771
September 18, 2019
That was interesting to me because,
first of all, what this order is going
after, supposedly, under section 215,
trying to monitor terrorist activity, it
only wanted calls by Americans.
Whereas, if you are an American in the
United States, you have constitutional
rights, including the Fourth Amend-
ment, that this certainly appears to
violate. There is no allegation of prob-
able cause a crime is committed, no al-
legation that Verizon or the records of
the people being sought had committed
a crime, the application apparently
said ‘‘must have’’ because that is the
way the order reads: We want
everybody’s records that Verizon has if
they are protected by the Fourth
Amendment, but we don’t want any-
body’s records, foreign records, even
though they are not protected by the
Constitution and Fourth Amendment
rights against unfair search and sei-
zure.
That is really an interesting role re-
versal right here. You are protecting
the people who have no protection and
going after the people who are pro-
tected by the Fourth Amendment.
It has caused a lot of concerns about,
well, what else does the FISA court
rubber stamp? It seems kind of silly,
but we have been told that section
215—that I have read from here—was
reformed and that the NSA ended their
program of gathering records. But the
thing is, as long as there is a FISA
court and as long as there is a section
215 that is even half as broad as it cur-
rently is, any of our law enforcement
can go back into the FISA court and
get a warrant rubber stamped, which is
basically what happened, it appears, in
the FISA orders regarding the Trump
campaign.
The thing, as a former judge, that
really grieves me most about the FISA
court is that we have not had a FISA
judge who had sufficient righteous in-
dignation to demand Comey, Rosen-
stein, or McCabe—if he participated—
any of those participants, to come in
before them and show cause as to why
they should not go to jail for commit-
ting a fraud upon the court, which it
sure appears they did.
They were not truthful about the
Russia hoax, about the so-called Rus-
sian dossier that a discredited, dis-
honest former MI6 agent in England
put together based on representations
by Russian agents, that he now admits
they could have worked for Putin, I
don’t know. And that were being pur-
chased, paid for, by the DNC and the
Clinton campaign through Fusion GPS,
which included Nellie Ohr, who is mar-
ried to Bruce Ohr, who kept bringing
material from them that had been pur-
chased by the FBI to the DOJ.
This, more than anything else,
causes me to think maybe we need to
do away with the FISA court and go
back to the way that things were, be-
cause we didn’t have a FISA judge in-
volved in this with enough morality,
enough righteousness, and enough hon-
esty, to recognize that a fraud against
their court was committed and to be
offended by it.
If somebody came in and got a war-
rant from me and they did not provide
me the true facts, and they knew their
source could not be verified and they
swore that this was verified, somebody
would be going to jail. That is so dis-
honest. People in those kinds of posi-
tions that we trust with so much
power, they need to be honest, and es-
pecially before a judge.
But, apparently, we have one or more
FISA judges who are not offended to be
lied to. Maybe it is because they saw it
was going for a good cause to try to
stop the Donald Trump campaign or
get him thrown out as President, that
is a worthy cause. Even though it was
a dishonest application affidavit and
warrant, that is okay with the FISA
judge.
I would really like to have the FISA
judges come before our committee and
testify about their lack of morality,
their lack of integrity, and their not
caring that people would come in and
submit lies and verify something they
knew, and intentionally deceived
about, being unverifiable.
We have some work to do. I am very
grateful to Congresswoman ZOE LOF-
GREN. I believe she was sincere today in
a hearing when she looked down the
dais at me and my Republican friends
and said, we know there are reforms
that need to be made, we know that
there are amendments that need to
occur regarding the system, and we
look forward to working with our
friends on the other side of the aisle.
I hope that is true because this little
experiment in a constitutional Demo-
cratic Republic is in jeopardy. I know
people want to talk about climate
change, but 12 years from now when we
are told the world may end if we don’t
do something about climate change,
this little constitutional Democratic
Republic will have ceased to be based
on the Constitution, which has already
set a record for being the longest basis
for a country in the history of the
world. So we have work to do, and I
hope that we can do it in a bipartisan
manner.
Even if you read in the Bible about
King David, what you learn is that
even the finest people in the world, if
they are not held accountable, if there
is not some accountability, can do
some really egregious things. That is
our obligation here in Congress. Let’s
have some accountability.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 39 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CARSON of Indiana) at 6
o’clock and 30 minutes p.m.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 6 o’clock and 31 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Thursday, September 19, 2019, at 10
a.m. for morning-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
2170. A letter from the Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer, Farm Credit Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s pro-
posed rule — Implementation of the Current
Expected Credit Losses Methodology for Al-
lowances, Related Adjustments to the Tier 1/
Tier 2 Capital Rule, and Conforming Amend-
ments (RIN: 3052-AD36) received September
5, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Pub-
lic Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Agriculture.
2171. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Defense, transmitting a letter on the
approved retirement of Rear Admiral Wil-
liam F. Moran, United States Navy, and his
advancement to the grade of admiral on the
retired list, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1370(c)(1);
Public Law 96-513, Sec. 112 (as amended by
Public Law 104-106, Sec. 502(b)); (110 Stat.
293); to the Committee on Armed Services.
2172. A letter from the President and
Chairman, Export-Import Bank, transmit-
ting the Bank’s statement with respect to
transactions involving exports to Mozam-
bique, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 635(b)(3); July 31,
1945, ch. 341, Sec. 2 (as added by Public Law
102-266, Sec. 102); (106 Stat. 95); to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
2173. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting
the 2018 National Healthcare Quality and
Disparities Report, pursuant to 42 U.S.C.
299b-2(b)(2); Public Law 106-129, Sec. 2(a); (113
Stat. 1658); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2174. A letter from the Deputy Chief, Pub-
lic Safety and Homeland Security Bureau,
Federal Communications Commission, trans-
mitting the Commission’s final rule — Im-
plementing Kari’s Law and Section 506 of
RAY BAUM’S Act [PS Docket No.: 18-261];
Inquiry Concerning 911 Access, Routing, and
Location in Enterprise Communications Sys-
tems [PS Docket No.: 17-239]; Amending the
Definition of Interconnected VoIP Service in
Section 9.3 of the Commission’s Rules [GN
Docket No.: 11-117] received September 10,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
2175. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, transmitting
notification that all state, territory Gov-
ernors, and the Mayor of the District of Co-
lumbia, received letters outlining their indi-
vidual REAL ID program implementation
status and offering guidance to help ensure a
smooth transition to full REAL ID enforce-
ment. A copy of that letter is attached, pur-
suant to 8 U.S.C. 1778(b); Public Law 109-13,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18SE7.031 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7772 September 18, 2019
div. B, title III, Sec. 301(b); (119 Stat. 316); to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
2176. A letter from the Attorney, U.S.
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, transmitting the Department’s tem-
porary final rule — Special Local Regula-
tions; Upper Mississippi River, 839.5 to 840.5
St. Paul, MN [Docket Number: USCG-2019-
0437] (RIN: 1625-AA08) received September10,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2177. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Fire-
works Display, Delaware River, Chester, PA
[Docket No.: USCG-2019-0690] (RIN: 1625-
AA00) received September 10, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
2178. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Sabine
River, Orange, TX [Docket No.: USCG-2019-
0376] (RIN: 1625-AA00) received September 10,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2179. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Bahia
De San Juan, San Juan PR [Docket No.:
USCG-2019-0653] (RIN: 1625-AA00) received
September 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2180. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Safety Zone; Illinois
River, Mile Marker 162 to 166, Peoria, IL
[Docket No.: USCG-2019-0729] (RIN: 1625-
AA00) received September 10, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
2181. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting a Declaration of a Public Health
Emergency and Waiver and/or Modification
of Certain HIPAA, and Medicare, Medicaid,
and Children’s Health Insurance Program
Requirements (consequences of Hurricane
Dorian on the State of Georgia), pursuant to
42 U.S.C. 247d(a); July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title
III, Sec. 319(a) (as amended by Public Law
107-188, Sec. 144(a)); (116 Stat. 630) and 42
U.S.C. 1320b-5(d); Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title
XI, Sec. 1135(d) (as added by Public Law 107-
188, Sec. 143(a)); (116 Stat. 628); jointly to the
Committees on Energy and Commerce and
Ways and Means.
2182. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting a Declaration of a Public Health
Emergency and Waiver and/or Modification
of Certain HIPAA, and Medicare, Medicaid,
and Children’s Health Insurance Program
Requirements (consequences of Hurricane
Dorian on the State of South Carolina), pur-
suant to 42 U.S.C. 247d(a); July 1, 1944, ch.
373, title III, Sec. 319(a) (as amended by Pub-
lic Law 107-188, Sec. 144(a)); (116 Stat. 630)
and 42 U.S.C. 1320b-5(d); Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531,
title XI, Sec. 1135(d) (as added by Public Law
107-188, Sec. 143(a)); (116 Stat. 628); jointly to
the Committees on Energy and Commerce
and Ways and Means.
2183. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting a Declaration of a Public Health
Emergency and Waiver and/or Modification
of Certain HIPAA, and Medicare, Medicaid,
and Children’s Health Insurance Program
Requirements (consequences of Hurricane
Dorian on the State of Florida), pursuant to
42 U.S.C. 247d(a); July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title
III, Sec. 319(a) (as amended by Public Law
107-188, Sec. 144(a)); (116 Stat. 630) and 42
U.S.C. 1320b-5(d); Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531, title
XI, Sec. 1135(d) (as added by Public Law 107-
188, Sec. 143(a)); (116 Stat. 628); jointly to the
Committees on Energy and Commerce and
Ways and Means.
2184. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting a Declaration of a Public Health
Emergency and Waiver and/or Modification
of Certain HIPAA, and Medicare, Medicaid,
and Children’s Health Insurance Program
Requirements (consequences of Hurricane
Dorian on the State of North Carolina), pur-
suant to 42 U.S.C. 247d(a); July 1, 1944, ch.
373, title III, Sec. 319(a) (as amended by Pub-
lic Law 107-188, Sec. 144(a)); (116 Stat. 630)
and 42 U.S.C. 1320b-5(d); Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531,
title XI, Sec. 1135(d) (as added by Public Law
107-188, Sec. 143(a)); (116 Stat. 628); jointly to
the Committees on Energy and Commerce
and Ways and Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi: Committee
on Homeland Security. H.R. 3525. A bill to
amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to
direct the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and
Border Protection to establish uniform proc-
esses for medical screening of individuals
interdicted between ports of entry, and for
other purposes; with an amendment (Rept.
116–211). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. BIGGS (for himself, Mr. GOSAR,
Mr. ARMSTRONG, and Mr. HUNTER):
H.R. 4370. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to direct the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to furnish hyperbaric oxygen
therapy to veterans with traumatic brain in-
jury or post-traumatic stress disorder; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. TRAHAN (for herself, Mr.
PAPPAS, Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa, and Ms. FINKENAUER):
H.R. 4371. A bill to authorize funding to
strengthen investments in the Nation’s post-
secondary career and technical education
(CTE) programs and build connections across
the entire education and workforce develop-
ment system; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Ms. JOHNSON of Texas (for herself
and Mr. WALTZ):
H.R. 4372. A bill to direct Federal science
agencies and the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy to undertake activities to im-
prove the quality of undergraduate STEM
education and enhance the research capacity
at the Nation’s HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology.
By Ms. JOHNSON of Texas (for herself,
Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Ms. LOFGREN,
and Mr. LUCAS):
H.R. 4373. A bill to provide for a coordi-
nated Federal research initiative to ensure
continued United States leadership in engi-
neering biology; to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology.
By Mr. GARAMENDI (for himself, Mr.
ZELDIN, and Mr. CISNEROS):
H.R. 4374. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to require air carriers to dis-
close information on aircraft maintenance,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. ROUDA (for himself and Mr.
GARAMENDI):
H.R. 4375. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to enter into an agreement
with the National Academy of Engineering
to conduct a study on seismicity, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure, and in addition
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. DUNN:
H.R. 4376. A bill to amend the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act to require Federal agencies im-
pacted by a major disaster to submit to Con-
gress a report on the estimated cost of the
impact, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture, and in addition to the Committee on
Rules, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MCKINLEY (for himself and Mr.
TONKO):
H.R. 4377. A bill to extend the authoriza-
tion for the Wheeling National Heritage
Area; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mrs. LOWEY:
H.R. 4378. A bill making continuing appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Appropria-
tions, and in addition to the Committee on
the Budget, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mrs. AXNE (for herself, Ms. STE-
VENS, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mrs.
LEE of Nevada, Ms. WILD, Ms.
FINKENAUER, Ms. TORRES SMALL of
New Mexico, and Ms. HOULAHAN):
H.R. 4379. A bill to amend the Patient Pro-
tection and Affordable Care Act to require
qualified health plans to have in place a
process to remove from publicly accessible
provider directories of such plans providers
that are no longer within the network of
such plans, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. CASTRO of Texas (for himself
and Mr. MARCHANT):
H.R. 4380. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to clarify requirements for
disclosure of transfer of credit policies; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts:
H.R. 4381. A bill to effectively staff the
public elementary schools and secondary
schools of the United States with school-
based mental health services providers; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Mr.
CUMMINGS, and Mr. MEADOWS):
H.R. 4382. A bill to amend the Inspector
General Act of 1978 to require the Council of
Inspectors General on Integrity and Effi-
ciency to include additional information in
requests and reports to Congress, to make
information available to Congress regarding
allegations closed without referral, to ex-
pand the membership of the Council, and for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:54 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L18SE7.000 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7773
September 18, 2019
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. CRAWFORD:
H.R. 4383. A bill to ensure that unclaimed
money recovered at airport security check-
points is transferred to a fund for certain
border security activities, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity.
By Mr. CRIST (for himself and Mr.
HILL of Arkansas):
H.R. 4384. A bill to amend the Federal De-
posit Insurance Act to ensure that certain
custodial deposits of a well capitalized in-
sured depository institution are not consid-
ered to be funds obtained by or through a de-
posit broker, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for
himself, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. BOST,
Mr. LAHOOD, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois, Mr. COMER, Mr.
KING of Iowa, Mr. BACON, Mr. FOR-
TENBERRY, Mr. GRAVES of Missouri,
and Mr. WATKINS):
H.R. 4385. A bill to amend section 211(o) of
the Clean Air Act to adjust the renewable
fuel obligation to account for the full vol-
ume of gasoline and diesel produced by small
refineries that are exempt under paragraph
(9), and for other purposes; to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
JUDY CHU of California, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Ms. DEAN, Ms. DELAURO, Mr.
EVANS, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr.
GOMEZ, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. LARSON
of Connecticut, Mr. LEWIS, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
MOULTON, Mr. NADLER, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, Mr. PAYNE, Ms. PINGREE, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Mr. RASKIN,
Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Ms. SEWELL
of Alabama, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. THOMP-
SON of California, and Mr. TRONE):
H.R. 4386. A bill to amend title II of the So-
cial Security Act to eliminate the Medicare
and disability insurance benefits waiting pe-
riods for disabled individuals; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, and in addition
to the Committees on Energy and Com-
merce, and Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. ESPAILLAT (for himself and
Mr. BALDERSON):
H.R. 4387. A bill to establish Growth Accel-
erator Fund Competition within the Small
Business Administration, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Small Business.
By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself, Mr.
BUCHANAN, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ,
and Mr. STEUBE):
H.R. 4388. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to provide for the imple-
mentation of curricula for training students,
teachers, and school personnel to under-
stand, recognize, prevent, and respond to
signs of human trafficking and exploitation
in children and youth, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, and Mr. GRIJALVA):
H.R. 4389. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide additional
amounts of loan forgiveness to teachers of
English learners, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. LUJÁN (for himself, Ms. LEE of
California, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. CORREA, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. SOTO,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms.
TITUS, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. ENGEL, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mr. POCAN, Mr. HUFFMAN, and
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ):
H.R. 4390. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act by striking marijuana
use, possession, and distribution as grounds
of inadmissibility and removal; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. PANETTA (for himself, Ms.
FUDGE, Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. CISNEROS,
Mrs. MCBATH, and Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 4391. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to modernize and improve
the public service loan forgiveness program,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself and
Mrs. WAGNER):
H.R. 4392. A bill to direct the President to
withdraw the application of the duty-free
treatment with respect to Burma under the
Generalized System of Preferences program,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. SWALWELL of California (for
himself, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. ROUDA, and Ms. NOR-
TON):
H.R. 4393. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to provide for a State
option under the State Medicaid plan to pro-
vide DNA sequencing clinical services for
certain children, provide for a study by the
National Academy of Medicine on the use of
genetic and genomic testing to improve
health care, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. TAKANO (for himself, Mr.
SUOZZI, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. ENGEL, Mr. MEEKS, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. SERRANO, Mr.
CORREA, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. GARCÍA of
Illinois, Mr. VARGAS, Ms. JUDY CHU of
California, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, and Mr.
SOTO):
H.R. 4394. A bill to prohibit Federal funds
from being used to violate the terms of the
Flores settlement agreement, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. ENGEL:
H. Con. Res. 63. Concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress that the Cen-
ters for Medicare & Medicaid Services should
take action to ensure that home infusion
therapy services are accessible to all Medi-
care beneficiaries; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. MATSUI (for herself, Mr. PRICE
of North Carolina, Ms. NORTON, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York,
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. THOMP-
SON of California, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
COLE, and Ms. TORRES SMALL of New
Mexico):
H. Con. Res. 64. Concurrent resolution rec-
ognizing the 25th anniversary of AmeriCorps;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. CÁRDENAS (for himself, Mr.
AGUILAR, Ms. BASS, Mr. BLUMENAUER,
Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE
of Pennsylvania, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. CAR-
SON of Indiana, Ms. CASTOR of Flor-
ida, Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr.
CICILLINE, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. COHEN, Mr. CORREA, Mr.
COSTA, Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, Ms. DEAN, Ms. DEGETTE, Mrs.
DEMINGS, Mr. DEUTCH, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Mr. EVANS, Ms. FRANKEL, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms. GAR-
CIA of Texas, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois,
Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
HARDER of California, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, Mr. HIMES, Mr. HORSFORD,
Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr.
JEFFRIES, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. KHANNA, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. KILMER,
Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. LAWSON
of Florida, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
LEVIN of California, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. LYNCH, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, Ms. MATSUI, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. MCNERNEY,
Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MENG, Ms. MOORE,
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr.
MOULTON, Mrs. MURPHY of Florida,
Mr. NADLER, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr.
NEAL, Ms. NORTON, Ms. OCASIO-COR-
TEZ, Ms. OMAR, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. POCAN,
Ms. PORTER, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. LUJÁN,
Miss RICE of New York, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. RUIZ, Mr. SABLAN, Mr.
SAN NICOLAS, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. SAR-
BANES, Ms. SCANLON, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
SERRANO, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama,
Mr. SIRES, Mr. SMITH of Washington,
Mr. SOTO, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. SWALWELL
of California, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. THOMPSON of California,
Ms. TITUS, Mrs. TORRES of California,
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico,
Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. VARGAS, Mr.
VEASEY, Mr. VELA, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Mr. YARMUTH, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Ms. WATERS, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. FOSTER, Ms.
HOULAHAN, and Mr. HASTINGS):
H. Res. 561. A resolution recognizing His-
panic Heritage Month and celebrating the
heritage and culture of Latinos in the United
States and the immense contributions of
Latinos to the United States; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. LEE of California (for herself,
Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
MCCAUL, Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Mrs.
TORRES of California, Mrs. BEATTY,
Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. SIRES, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Ms. WATERS, Mr. COX of
California, Ms. NORTON, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY
of New York, Ms. FUDGE, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. NADLER, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. WILSON of South Caro-
lina, Mr. LEWIS, Ms. SHALALA, Ms.
TLAIB, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mrs.
LOWEY, Mr. SOTO, Ms. PLASKETT, and
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia):
H. Res. 562. A resolution expressing condo-
lences and long-term support to the people of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L18SE7.100 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7774 September 18, 2019
the Bahamas in the aftermath of the dev-
astating Hurricane Dorian; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. LOFGREN (for herself and Mr.
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois):
H. Res. 563. A resolution recognizing the
Office of the Legislative Counsel of the
House of Representatives on the occasion of
the 100th anniversary of the Office; to the
Committee on House Administration.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. BIGGS:
H.R. 4370.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mrs. TRAHAN:
H.R. 4371.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Ms. JOHNSON of Texas:
H.R. 4372.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Ms. JOHNSON of Texas:
H.R. 4373.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. GARAMENDI:
H.R. 4374.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. ROUDA:
H.R. 4375.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. DUNN:
H.R. 4376.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. MCKINLEY:
H.R. 4377.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
Section 8—Powers of Congress. To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Mrs. LOWEY:
H.R. 4378.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The principal constitutional authority for
this legislation is clause 7 of section 9 of ar-
ticle I of the Constitution of the United
States (the appropriation power), which
states:
‘‘No Money shall be drawn from the Treas-
ury, but in Consequence of Appropriations
made by Law . . . .’’
In addition, clause 1 of section 8 of article
I of the Constitution (the spending power)
provides:
‘‘The Congress shall have the Power . . . to
pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States . . .’’
Together, these specific constitutional pro-
visions establish the congressional power of
the purse, granting Congress the authority
to appropriate funds, to determine their pur-
pose, amount, and period of availability, and
to set forth terms and conditions governing
their use.
By Mrs. AXNE:
H.R. 4379.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 18 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. CASTRO of Texas:
H.R. 4380.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Constitutional Authority—Necessary and
Proper Clause (Art. I, Sec. 8, Clause 18)
THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
ARTICLE I, SECTION 8: POWERS OF
CONGRESS
CLAUSE 18
The Congress shall have power . . . To
make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the fore-
going powers, and all other powers vested by
this Constitution in the government of the
United States, or in any department or offi-
cer thereof.
By Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts:
H.R. 4381.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the power of Congress to make
rules for the government and regulation of
the land and naval forces, as enumerated in
Article I, Section 8, Clause 14 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 4382.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Mr. CRAWFORD:
H.R. 4383.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the U.S. Constitution
By Mr. CRIST:
H.R. 4384.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, Section 8 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 4385.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18 (Necessary
and Proper Clause)
By Mr. DOGGETT:
H.R. 4386.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Pursuant to Clause I of Section 8 of Article
I of the United States Constitution and
Amendment XVI of the United States Con-
stitution, specifically clause 1 (relating to
providing for the general welfare of the
United States) and clause 18 (relating to the
power to make all laws necessary and proper
for carrying out the powers vested in Con-
gress)
By Mr. ESPAILLAT:
H.R. 4387.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
‘‘The Congress shall have Power to . . .
provide for the . . . general Welfare of the
United States; . . .’’
By Mr. HASTINGS:
H.R. 4388.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. LANGEVIN:
H.R. 4389.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. LUJÁN:
H.R. 4390.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. PANETTA:
H.R. 4391.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. SHERMAN:
H.R. 4392.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. SWALWELL of California:
H.R. 4393.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clauses 1 and 8 of the
United States Constitution.
By Mr. TAKANO:
H.R. 4394.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. I,
Sec. 8, Clause 18)
The Congress shall have power . . . To
make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the fore-
going powers, and all other powers vested by
this Constitution in the government of the
United States, or in any department or offi-
cer thereof.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 40: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 51: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 77: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 94: Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 123: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 216: Mr. CLINE.
H.R. 218: Mr. STEIL.
H.R. 435: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 444: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 485: Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 585: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 594: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 616: Mr. MCCAUL, Mr. BAIRD, and Mr.
ADERHOLT.
H.R. 683: Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 712: Mr. COLLINS of New York and Ms.
PRESSLEY.
H.R. 744: Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana.
H.R. 836: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 838: Mr. CORREA and Mr. WILSON of
South Carolina.
H.R. 877: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 886: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 912: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:32 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L18SE7.100 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7775
September 18, 2019
H.R. 945: Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr.
KING of Iowa, and Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 1034: Mr. KING of New York and Mr.
GIBBS.
H.R. 1171: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1173: Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 1179: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 1186: Mr. RUIZ and Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1225: Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 1314: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 1379: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington,
Ms. LOFGREN, and Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 1380: Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 1396: Mr. BUCHANAN, Mr. MCHENRY,
and Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 1425: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1450: Mr. COURTNEY.
H.R. 1479: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1516: Mr. SERRANO.
H.R. 1570: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 1599: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 1705: Ms. TITUS and Mr. COURTNEY.
H.R. 1706: Mr. CHABOT.
H.R. 1739: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.R. 1749: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1767: Mr. HAGEDORN.
H.R. 1777: Mr. TAKANO.
H.R. 1858: Mr. CRAWFORD and Mr. BYRNE.
H.R. 1869: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 1903: Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. KATKO, Ms.
TITUS, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. YARMUTH, Ms.
TLAIB, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. DAVID
SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. LAMB,
Ms. SHERRILL, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Mr. SARBANES, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr.
SIRES, Ms. PORTER, Mrs. LURIA, Mr.
CUNNINGHAM, Mr. ALLRED, Ms. DEGETTE, Ms.
ESHOO, Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms.
DEAN, Mr. CRIST, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms. FUDGE, Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia, Mr. SHERMAN, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. KIL-
DEE, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr.
GREEN of Texas, Mr. ESPAILLAT, and Mr. PA-
NETTA.
H.R. 1954: Mr. WESTERMAN.
H.R. 1982: Ms. SCANLON and Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas.
H.R. 2117: Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 2161: Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota.
H.R. 2222: Mr. POCAN, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Mrs. LESKO, and Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 2245: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2256: Mr. HORSFORD, Ms. TITUS, and
Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 2271: Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 2293: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 2319: Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia,
Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mrs. HARTZLER, and Mrs.
WAGNER.
H.R. 2376: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 2382: Mr. WALTZ.
H.R. 2387: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 2426: Mrs. HAYES and Mr. LOUDERMILK.
H.R. 2435: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2453: Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 2467: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 2482: Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 2496: Mrs. TORRES of California.
H.R. 2513: Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 2577: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 2585: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 2602: Mr. SOTO and Mr. RUIZ.
H.R. 2628: Mr. WALTZ.
H.R. 2645: Mr. COLLINS of New York.
H.R. 2693: Ms. NORTON, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, and Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 2698: Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 2708: Mr. BERA and Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 2711: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 2739: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2749: Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 2764: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 2772: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2782: Mr. MARCHANT.
H.R. 2829: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 2846: Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania and
Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 2882: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 2897: Mr. CALVERT, Mr. KIM, and Mr.
COLLINS of New York.
H.R. 2988: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 3006: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia and
Mr. MOOLENAAR.
H.R. 3035: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3036: Mr. COLLINS of New York.
H.R. 3043: Mr. SIMPSON.
H.R. 3047: Mr. CHABOT.
H.R. 3048: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 3062: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 3094: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 3103: Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 3116: Mr. RASKIN, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
SOTO, Ms. SPEIER, and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 3129: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 3190: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL and Ms.
LOFGREN.
H.R. 3193: Ms. BASS, Mr. SAN NICOLAS, Mr.
KILDEE, and Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 3197: Mr. LEWIS, Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. GARCIA of Texas,
and Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 3287: Mr. TIMMONS, Mr. PALAZZO, Mr.
AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. HUNTER, Mr.
MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr. BARR, Mr.
GOSAR, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. STEWART, Mr. BUDD,
Mr. DAVIDSON of Ohio, Mr. OLSON, Mr. BOST,
and Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 3289: Mr. WEBER of Texas.
H.R. 3332: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 3362: Mrs. MURPHY of Florida, Mr.
DELGADO, and Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 3373: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3404: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 3412: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico.
H.R. 3442: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 3463: Mr. VISCLOSKY, Ms. GARCIA of
Texas, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, and Mr.
CLEAVER.
H.R. 3548: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 3590: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 3607: Mr. MCKINLEY.
H.R. 3632: Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. ALLRED, Ms.
KAPTUR, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Mr. GONZALEZ
of Texas, Ms. SPANBERGER, Ms. FINKENAUER,
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. VELA, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mrs. FLETCHER, Mr.
KATKO, Ms. CRAIG, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, and
Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 3739: Mr. BIGGS.
H.R. 3764: Ms. HAALAND, Ms. PORTER, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr.
TED LIEU of California, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. MICHAEL
F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms. WILD, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mr. EVANS, and Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 3779: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 3820: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 3846: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 3851: Mr. CASE, Ms. PINGREE, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Mr.
WESTERMAN, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. PETERS, and Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of
Oklahoma.
H.R. 3864: Mr. BABIN, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. JOHN-
SON of South Dakota, Mr. BUDD, Mr. WRIGHT,
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, and Mr. STAUBER.
H.R. 3956: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 3964: Mr. POSEY and Mr. WALBERG.
H.R. 3971: Mr. BURCHETT.
H.R. 4009: Mr. HUIZENGA.
H.R. 4029: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 4032: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 4044: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms. DELBENE,
Mr. MAST, Mr. KIM, and Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER.
H.R. 4056: Mr. PAPPAS and Ms. JUDY CHU of
California.
H.R. 4100: Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 4174: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 4175: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 4194: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Ms. HOULAHAN, and Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 4206: Mrs. MCBATH and Mr.
DESAULNIER.
H.R. 4211: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 4228: Mrs. BEATTY and Ms. JOHNSON of
Texas.
H.R. 4236: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 4249: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 4265: Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. MOULTON,
Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
GALLEGO, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 4272: Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts.
H.R. 4276: Mr. MOOLENAAR.
H.R. 4294: Mr. PENCE.
H.R. 4295: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 4297: Ms. SPEIER and Mr. LEWIS.
H.R. 4300: Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 4301: Ms. NORTON, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. SCHRADER, Mr. LEVIN
of Michigan, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Ms. JAYAPAL,
Mr. GREEN of Texas, Ms. GARCIA of Texas,
Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Ms. OMAR, Ms. BONAMICI,
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Mr. CUELLAR,
and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 4339: Mr. PAYNE and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 4347: Mr. HICE of Georgia.
H.R. 4358: Mr. RICE of South Carolina.
H.J. Res. 66: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H. Con. Res. 60: Mr. COSTA, Mr. RASKIN, and
Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H. Res. 49: Mr. TIPTON.
H. Res. 107: Mr. KHANNA.
H. Res. 114: Ms. BONAMICI.
H. Res. 146: Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. COLE, and
Mr. TIMMONS.
H. Res. 296: Mr. LYNCH.
H. Res. 323: Mr. POCAN.
H. Res. 326: Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H. Res. 390: Mr. BYRNE.
H. Res. 419: Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H. Res. 493: Mr. LATTA.
H. Res. 517: Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. FLORES,
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, and Ms. MENG.
H. Res. 551: Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr. MAR-
SHALL, and Mr. BALDERSON.
H. Res. 555: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H. Res. 556: Mr. PETERS, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. CASTEN of Il-
linois, Miss RICE of New York, Mr. BRENDAN
F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, and Mr. KILDEE.
f
CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIM-
ITED TAX BENEFITS, OR LIM-
ITED TARIFF BENEFITS
Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or
statements on congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits were submitted as follows:
OFFERED BY MR. YARMUTH
The provisions that warranted a referral to
the Committee on the Budget in H.R. 4378 do
not contain any congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff bene-
fits as defined in clause 9 of rule XXI.
OFFERED BY MRS. LOWEY
H.R. 4378, making continuing appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020, and for other pur-
poses, does not contain any congressional
earmark, limited tax benefits, or limited tar-
iff benefits as defined in clause 9 of rule XXI.
f
DELETION OF SPONSORS FROM
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were deleted from public bills and reso-
lutions, as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:32 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE7.014 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7776 September 18, 2019
H.R. 3632: Mr. COHEN.
f
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
42. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
the Mayor and City Commission of Sweet-
water, FL, relative to Resolution No. 4554,
urging the United States Citizenship and Im-
migration Services (‘‘USCIS’’) to reevaluate
and grant Ramon Saul Sanchez’s application
for permanent resident status; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:32 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE7.010 H18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S5547
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2019 No. 150
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, who judges justly our
Nation and world, we honor Your
Name. You are so patient with us.
Cleanse our eyes, that we may see
more clearly. Open our hearts, that we
may love You more dearly. Lord, we
confess that sometimes injustice seems
to prevail. Avenge injustice, O God,
and cause the godly to rejoice. Deliver
us from those who seek to set an am-
bush for freedom.
Lord, give our lawmakers the wisdom
to look to You for safety, for You are
our strength and salvation.
We pray in Your loving Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. I ask unanimous
consent to address the Senate for 30
seconds.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
HONORING MERLE DAVID HAY
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
would like to share some real Iowa his-
tory this morning.
Merle David Hay from Glidden, IA,
was the first Iowa serviceman to die in
World War I. Hay enlisted on May 9,
1917, with his father’s blessing, as he
was too young to be drafted. He was as-
signed to the 1st Infantry Division,
Company F.
In the early hours of November 3,
1917, while posted in the trenches near
the French village of Artois, the Impe-
rial German Army attacked, and Merle
Hay was killed. Hay’s father said: ‘‘I
am proud of my boy if he has given up
his life for his country.’’
Merle Hay Road in Des Moines, IA, is
a constant memory of this person’s
sacrifice.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
REMEMBERING DAVID JONES, SR.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
would like to take a moment this
morning to mourn the passing of a de-
voted son of Louisville, KY, and some-
one I was lucky to call a very dear
friend.
I can say without exaggeration that
David Jones, Sr., was the single most
influential friend and mentor I have
had in my entire career. I have never
forgotten something he told me when I
was starting out in Jefferson County.
He said: ‘‘The most important word in
the English language is ‘focus.’ ’’
David used his extraordinary focus
and many other talents to build an ex-
traordinary American business and to
better his community. Whenever a
local need had somebody—almost ev-
erybody, actually—stumped, David al-
ways seemed to end up in the thick of
it, forging a path to success.
In the days ahead, many will rightly
pay tribute to David’s brilliance and
his determination, but he was also one
of the kindest, most decent, most gen-
erous individuals I have ever met. I
will sorely miss his friendship, and
Kentuckians will miss his extraor-
dinary leadership.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, on
an entirely different matter, today the
Senate will have an opportunity to
take the first procedural step toward
keeping the Federal Government fund-
ed and open.
At the end of July, the White House
and the Speaker of the House reached
an agreement to guide the appropria-
tions process. Both parties, both Cham-
bers, and both sides of Pennsylvania
Avenue agreed to the terms. We laid
out top-line funding targets for defense
and nondefense; we swore off poison
pill policy riders; and, unlike the past
several budget deals, which took a full
year to negotiate while appropriations
languished, we finished this year’s deal
much earlier to ensure we had enough
time to move the appropriations bills.
In other words, congressional leaders
and the President laid the ground for a
sensible, bipartisan funding process,
but instead, over the past week and a
half, we have seen our Democratic col-
leagues suggest that they may try to
shoehorn their longstanding disagree-
ments with President Trump into this
appropriations process. Even though
we all agreed not to insist on poison
pills or change existing Presidential
authorities, Democrats are threatening
to filibuster Chairman SHELBY’s clean
Defense bill over their disagreements
with the President on immigration pol-
icy.
I sure hope that doesn’t happen. I
hope our Democratic friends will allow
the process to move forward when we
vote later today. The stakes are high.
We are talking about critical resources
for the missions of the Department of
Defense. Our military commanders
have told us that this funding is vital
to keeping peace with Putin’s Russia,
China, and all their efforts to harm
America’s interests. Just days ago,
Saudi Arabian energy facilities lit-
erally went up in flames after what ap-
pears to be a massive, coordinated at-
tack by Iran.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE6.000 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5548 September 18, 2019
In a world this dangerous, uncertain
funding and continuing resolutions will
not cut it for our national defense. Our
men and women in uniform do not de-
serve to have the funding for their
tools, their training, and their own pay
raise, by the way—pay raise—used as
leverage by Senate Democrats to try to
extract concessions from the White
House.
So, look, I would urge each of our
colleagues to join me today in taking
the first step toward fulfilling our obli-
gation to keep this country safe and se-
cure.
f
ENERGY INDEPENDENCE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, on
another matter, we are closely moni-
toring events in the Middle East fol-
lowing that provocative and dangerous
Iranian attack on Saudi energy facili-
ties, which included the largest oil
processing facility in the entire world.
As I said on Monday, Iran’s reckless
behavior is not just a threat to the re-
gion but to the entire global economy,
and it must be met with swift con-
sequences from the international com-
munity.
As the United States and our allies
continue to learn more and weigh our
options, there has already been one
positive lesson that should not go un-
noticed. While the attack has shaken
global energy markets, to be sure, the
United States is in a much better posi-
tion to weather the storm than we
might have been in past decades.
For years and years, an international
attack of this magnitude would have
been virtually guaranteed to roil the
U.S. economy and send gas prices soar-
ing for Americans at the pumps, but so
far, this time around, analysts don’t
expect this event to yield the signifi-
cant impacts we would have seen back
in the seventies or even in the nineties.
Why is that? The answer is three
words: American domestic energy.
Over the last decade and often over
the strenuous, strenuous objections of
Democrats, our Nation has made in-
credible strides toward energy inde-
pendence. We have explored new tech-
nologies, new methods, and new ways
to fuel America’s prosperity right here
at home, and it is paying off big time.
By 2015, our production had become so
robust that I led the charge to lift the
outdated ban on crude oil exports. Late
last year, thanks in part to Republican
policies, the United States became a
net exporter of oil for the first time in
decades.
Get this: Across all forms of energy,
the Department of Energy projects
that next year our Nation will export
more energy than we import for the
first time since 1953. Let me say that
again. Thanks largely to Republican
policies, our Nation is poised to become
a net energy exporter for the first time
since the Eisenhower administration.
That is huge progress, not just for
our economy but, as we have just been
reminded, for our national security as
well. You would think the country
would be united in celebration, but not
everyone is happy. Oh, no. Last week,
just days before this massive disrup-
tion in the Middle East, House Demo-
crats sent us several bills designed to
limit domestic energy development and
literally tie America’s hands. One of
those bills would have shut off explo-
ration in a small portion of ANWR in
remote Alaska. They want to reverse
something that had been sought for 40
years until Republicans secured it in
2017.
So, as far as I can tell from the bills
the House keeps sending us, the social-
ists who are calling the shots over
there have never seen a pipeline they
didn’t want to cancel. They have never
seen a pipeline they didn’t want to can-
cel, a responsible development they
didn’t want to kill, or a step toward
American energy independence they
didn’t want to reverse.
Along with the Democratic House,
this also seems to describe their par-
ty’s Presidential candidates. Almost
all of them have endorsed the radical
idea of ending oil and gas exploration
on Federal lands not only offshore but
onshore, too. Let me say that again.
Almost all of them have endorsed the
radical idea of ending oil and gas explo-
ration on Federal lands, not only off-
shore but onshore, too. That is today’s
Democratic Party. This ideology has
consequences for American prosperity,
but it also weakens our Nation’s foot-
ing in the world.
Just days after these Democratic
votes, we were offered a sobering re-
minder of just how important Amer-
ican energy really is.
So here is the good news: This Repub-
lican Senate is on the job, and we
won’t let Democrats take us backward.
We won’t let them reduce our pros-
perity or make us more vulnerable to
overseas chaos. Republicans will keep
working to help our Nation thrive.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Robert A.
Destro, of Virginia, to be Assistant
Secretary of State for Democracy,
Human Rights, and Labor.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, defense
funding is always an imperative. There
are always going to be bad actors who
threaten our country, whether they are
major powers like China or Russia or
terrorist organizations like ISIS or al-
Qaida. We have to be prepared to
counter those threats.
In the United States, we are used to
having the most outstanding military
in the world. In fact, we have come to
rely on it. We assume our military will
always be the best because it has been
the best for as long as we can remem-
ber, but we can’t forget that our mili-
tary preeminence is the result of sus-
tained investment. While our soldiers,
sailors, airmen, and marines constitute
the most advanced and proficient fight-
ing force in the world, they can’t do
their jobs or maintain our military su-
periority without adequate resources.
That includes funding, not just the
weapons, equipment, and technology of
today, but also the weapons, equip-
ment, and technology of the future. It
is too late to modernize our military
when the threat has reached us. We
need to invest in the equipment and
technology of the future now so that
when the threats of tomorrow mate-
rialize, we will be ready. This means
delivering platforms like the future B–
21 bomber on schedule and making ro-
bust investments in the cyber and
space domains.
Right now, our military is rebuilding
after years of underfunding and the
strains in the war on terror. Here in
the Senate, Members of both parties
have worked together over the past
couple of years to meet our military’s
funding and rebuilding needs. I hope
that trend will continue.
In November 2018, the bipartisan Na-
tional Defense Strategy Commission
released a report that warned that our
readiness had eroded to the point at
which we might struggle to win a war
against a major power like Russia or
China, and the Commission noted that
we would be especially vulnerable if we
were ever called on to fight a war on
two fronts. That is a dangerous situa-
tion for our country to be in, and we
need to keep working to rebuild our
military so that we are not trailing be-
hind other nations.
Other countries are certainly not
holding back when it comes to military
preparedness. Russia and China are
busy investing in their militaries as we
speak, and they have recently con-
ducted joint military exercises. As the
leader noted on the floor on Monday,
military spending in China over the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.002 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5549
September 18, 2019
last decade has nearly doubled. Mean-
while, these countries have continued
to flex their military power outside the
borders of their countries, under-
scoring the need for other nations to be
prepared to deter their aggressions. Of
course, while we may be in a new era of
great power competition, we still face
threats from rogue states and terrorist
organizations. We need to be prepared
to meet multiple threats on multiple
fronts if we want to ensure the security
of our Nation.
Later today, the leader is planning to
have the Senate vote to begin debate
on a package of appropriations bills,
including this year’s Defense appro-
priations bill. Less than 2 months ago,
the Democrats in both the House and
the Senate agreed on an increased
funding level for our military, which is
reflected in the Defense appropriations
bill.
The Defense appropriations measure
funds current military priorities and
invests in the research our men and
women in uniform need to be prepared
for the future. It also provides for a 3.1-
percent pay increase for our military,
which is the largest pay increase in a
decade. So it would be very dis-
appointing if the Democrats chose now
to play politics and put their personal
political agenda over the security of
our country and the welfare of our men
and women in uniform.
The military needs to be funded
through regular order appropriations
bills, not through temporary funding
measures that leave the military in
doubt about funding levels and unable
to start essential new projects. So I
hope that our Democratic colleagues
will honor the commitment they just
made and will work with the Repub-
licans to pass the Defense appropria-
tions package before the end of the fis-
cal year.
Likewise, I hope the Senate Demo-
crats will resist the temptation to play
politics over this year’s national de-
fense authorization bill and will work
with us to initiate a conference with
the House to resolve our differences.
Our colleagues have the opportunity to
take both of these important steps this
week.
RECOGNIZING THE U.S. AIR FORCE AND SOUTH
DAKOTA AIR NATIONAL GUARD
Mr. President, before I close, I wish a
happy 72nd birthday today to the U.S.
Air Force, most especially to the air-
men of Ellsworth Air Force Base in
South Dakota.
I also wish a happy birthday to the
South Dakota Air National Guard,
which celebrates the 73rd anniversary
of its establishment on Friday.
The Guard’s 114th Fighter Wing re-
cently had a change of command. Col.
Mark Morrell assumed command from
Col. Nathan Alholinna on September 7.
I wish the Fighting Lobos continued
success under its new leadership, and I
wish Colonel Alholinna the best and
thank him for his many years of serv-
ice.
While investing in equipment and
technology that are essential to our
Nation’s defense, as always, our great-
est strength is found in the men and
women of the U.S. military. It is, first
and foremost, because of their dedica-
tion and sacrifice that all of us live in
freedom.
I hope the men and women of Ells-
worth Air Force Base and the South
Dakota Air National Guard enjoy their
celebrations this week. They are well
deserved.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
E-CIGARETTES
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, it start-
ed sounding too familiar to me. For a
long time on Capitol Hill, I have been
involved in public policy debates about
Big Tobacco, about nicotine and ciga-
rettes, and about the public health con-
sequences of smoking. It is a personal
issue, of course, for me and for so many
of us.
Our families have been touched by
tobacco-related disease and death. I
lost my father to lung cancer. He was
53 years old. He smoked two packs of
Camels a day. I stood by his bedside
when I was just a high school student
and saw what tobacco could do.
When I was elected to Congress, I de-
cided to try to take on Big Tobacco. It
was not an easy task. Those in Big To-
bacco had very many friends in high
places, and they made it clear in both
political parties in the House of Rep-
resentatives that tobacco was untouch-
able.
I offered an amendment, quite a few
years ago now, to ban smoking on air-
planes. It was really because of my irri-
tation and strong feelings that the peo-
ple who were on the plane who were
nonsmokers shouldn’t have to breathe
in secondhand smoke. To my surprise,
we passed it in the House by a handful
of votes even though the leadership of
both political parties opposed it. Then
it came over here, and Senator Frank
Lautenberg, of New Jersey, passed it as
well. It became the law of the land.
Neither Frank nor I could have pre-
dicted what would happen next, but as
the American people noticed that sec-
ondhand smoke was taken off of air-
planes, they started asking a lot of
these questions about why you
wouldn’t take it off of trains and buses
and out of offices, hospitals, res-
taurants, and on and on. The net result
was that of a change across America
when it came to standards for smoking
and tobacco cigarettes.
Then I enlisted a group that was
showing extraordinary leadership in
Washington. It was called the Cam-
paign for Tobacco-Free Kids. Matt
Myers, the director, still works for
that organization. We went to the
heart of the issue, and that was the
fact that Big Tobacco was doing its
best to make teenagers its customers.
It had to. It was losing too many of its
best customers because they were
dying from Big Tobacco’s product.
It tried to addict children, and it was
successful with ad campaigns. The Joe
Camel ads, the Marlboro cowboy, and
all sorts of cartoon figures were really
appealing to children. It worked. It was
able to replenish its smokers with kids
who started smoking at earlier and
earlier ages.
We went after them. Eventually,
there was a national lawsuit against
the tobacco companies. We changed the
standards for selling tobacco in Amer-
ica. We made it much more difficult for
kids to get their hands on cigarettes,
and, over time, we reduced the percent-
age of kids who were using these to-
bacco products.
The tobacco companies faced a di-
lemma. They were losing their best
customers—the kids. What were they
going to do to maintain their profits?
Several years ago, it became pretty
obvious that they had found an alter-
native product called e-cigarettes and
vaping. What was good about this was
they could make health claims about e-
cigarettes and vaping. They could
argue that since you were taking to-
bacco out of the equation, merely suck-
ing in some form of nicotine vapor was
preferable from a health perspective.
Yet, when it came right down to it,
there was no proof of that whatsoever.
JUUL is the biggest e-cigarette/e-
vapor device maker in America. Its
full-paged ads in newspaper after news-
paper have made these health claims
that, in fact, e-vaping is a healthy al-
ternative to tobacco cigarettes. Yet
there is no proof—none.
Then something else started hap-
pening. We started noticing that all
across America, kids—the same kids
who once used to be the targets of Big
Tobacco—were now the targets of Big
Vaping. Vaping targets kids. The num-
bers tell the story. As of 2 years ago, 11
percent of high school students in
America were vaping. A year later,
there were 20 percent, and there are 27
percent today. More than one out of
four high school students is using e-
cigarettes and vaping today. Even
worse, 10 percent of middle school stu-
dents—10-, 11-, and 12-year-olds—are
vaping.
The numbers are growing, and you
wonder why. The people in the vaping
industry know how to target kids.
They target them with flavors that are
designed just for kids—Razzleberry,
Gummy Bears, Bubble Gum, Unicorn
Milk. How many 50-year-old chain
smokers can’t wait to get Unicorn Milk
flavoring for their vaping devices? It is
all about kids. The vaping industry, de-
spite all of its public denials, has tar-
geted these kids and has, effectively,
recruited our children to be the next
generation of vaporers for life.
How much nicotine is in that little
vaping device, the one that looks like
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.004 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5550 September 18, 2019
it is a flash drive for your computer?
There is an equivalent amount of nico-
tine in vaping as in a total pack of
cigarettes. You get 20 cigarettes in one
hit on a vaping device. Nicotine is a
very addictive chemical. I know from
my family experience, and we all know,
from those who try for long, long times
to quit using tobacco cigarettes, that
the nicotine draws them back time and
again.
This addiction was underway, and I
started writing letters, which Senators
do. I protested to the Food and Drug
Administration, to the Surgeon Gen-
eral, and to anyone else who would lis-
ten that this vaping epidemic was dan-
gerous—dangerous for our kids and
dangerous for our future. It took the
longest time to get their attention. In
fact, with those in this new Trump ad-
ministration, they initially postponed
any action against vaping until the
year 2022, which would be beyond the
President’s first term.
Well, I went to Dr. Gottlieb, who
then was head of the FDA, and said:
You can’t wait 4 years. You have to do
something right now about vaping.
He resisted for a while, but then he
came around. He held a press con-
ference, and do you know what he
called this vaping situation? An epi-
demic. The head of the Food and Drug
Administration, a medical doctor, Dr.
Gottlieb, called it an epidemic.
So then he left for family reasons,
and he had a successor, Dr. Ned
Sharpless, Acting Commissioner of the
Food and Drug Administration. I ap-
pealed to him, saying: Do something.
You have the power right now to take
all of these children’s flavors off of the
market for vaping. You could do it
today.
Secondly, you could ban most of the
vaping devices, which have never been
approved by the government. He didn’t
want to do it. He dragged his feet. It
went on for months.
I will have to say, in all candor and
honesty, last week there was a break-
through. Last week, the Trump admin-
istration addressed this issue directly.
Last Monday, the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration said to JUUL, the major
manufacturer: Stop making health
claims you can’t prove. Stop telling
people your product is a healthy alter-
native to tobacco cigarettes. There are
no clinical trials. There is no proof, no
credible medical study you can point
to, to make that claim, so stop saying
it.
Then, just a couple days later, they
went even further, banning the use of
these flavors that have enticed chil-
dren into vaping and e-cigarettes. They
have announced that probably within
30 days, as their estimate, these are all
going to have to come off the market,
and in May of next year, the companies
that make them can apply to bring
them back on the market if they can
prove they are good for public health.
Well, Senator LISA MURKOWSKI of
Alaska, a Republican, and I have had a
bill for several months now on this
issue. I thank her for her bipartisan co-
operation in this effort. It is great to
have her by my side. She is a terrific
ally.
She and I believe none of these fla-
vors should come back on the market
until it is proven they are not dan-
gerous to children and that they in fact
do help adults stop smoking and can
show positive results. I think that is a
hard measure, a hard standard for
them to meet, and it should be because
the alternative is unacceptable—more
children addicted to e-cigarettes and
vaping.
There may be a place for e-cigarettes
at some point in the future. I am not
sure where it will be, but as long as
they are endangering our children with
their products and their flavors, I am
going to continue to fight their efforts.
I want to say something else. Even in
the midst of my battles against Big To-
bacco, I still remember what my dad
went through when he tried to stop
smoking—dying of lung cancer, trying
to stop smoking. It was so hard and
painful, and I watched him as a young
boy and saw the struggle he went
through.
I have always said we have to show
some caring and compassion for the
people who were once tobacco users
and want to quit, and today we have to
show the same level of caring when it
comes to all of these high school stu-
dents—5 million American high school
students—who are vaping and using e-
cigarettes and should quit. We need to
give them a path, a recommendation.
I wrote to the Surgeon General last
week and asked him to come up with a
plan, an educational approach, to allow
these young people to get off this nico-
tine addiction before it is too late.
What has happened in the past, sadly,
is that many of the high schoolers who
were using e-cigarettes didn’t quit
completely from anything; they moved
to tobacco cigarettes with the nicotine
they were seeking in a different form.
So that is the challenge we face.
After years of inaction and a lot of
telephone calls and letters and meet-
ings, the Food and Drug Administra-
tion has done the right thing. I hope by
the end of this year, these flavors will
be off the shelf, and I hope the Food
and Drug Administration truly en-
forces what they announced last week.
It has been 10 years since Congress
gave the Food and Drug Administra-
tion the legal authority to regulate all
tobacco products, including e-ciga-
rettes. There is no doubt about their
legal authority.
Last year, 4 million children under
the age of 18 were vaping in America.
As I mentioned, today the number is 5
million.
Over the last 2 years, we have seen a
135-percent increase in America’s chil-
dren using e-cigarettes.
Ask any public health official what
this means. If we didn’t do something,
the numbers would continue to grow
unchecked. Schools are taking doors
off of toilet stalls so kids can’t sneak
in and use e-cigarettes and vape be-
tween classes. Some kids are bold
enough to try to do it in class.
We have now linked e-cigarettes and
vaping to over 380 cases of confirmed
and severe respiratory illness nation-
wide. As of last night, in California,
the seventh young person has died from
vaping.
We have 52 confirmed cases and 1 re-
ported death in Illinois, but I can tell
you that on Monday morning, one of
my friends, a doctor in Chicago, told
me in private that he had visited a
major hospital, and three young people
who had been vaping were hanging on
by a thread to life. Kids as young as 15
have been hospitalized.
There is no specific device or sub-
stance that has been linked to all of
these cases, but the one common de-
nominator is e-cigarettes.
This nicotine addiction and what it
leads to—especially JUUL’s devices,
which are extraordinarily popular,
with the highest levels of nicotine we
have seen in products legally sold in
America.
Nicotine is both toxic and highly ad-
dictive. It raises blood pressure, spikes
adrenaline, and increases the risk of
heart disease. It can have short- and
long-term negative health impacts on
the developing brain, particularly, in-
cluding increased risk of addiction,
mood disorder, and permanent lowering
of impulse control.
Kids who use e-cigarettes are three
times more likely than their peers to
transition to traditional tobacco ciga-
rettes, and they, of course, kill almost
half a million Americans a year.
So that is our problem. That is our
challenge.
I would add, too, that it is time for us
to start taxing this product. For years,
I have been sounding the alarm that
the vaping industry is following Big
Tobacco’s playbook when it comes to
appealing to our children.
I have learned over the years, in all
my battles against Big Tobacco, that
the single most effective tool to pre-
vent children from starting the use of
tobacco cigarettes is to price it out of
their range.
That is why we passed cigarette
taxes years ago—and many States and
localities followed suit—and why later
this week I will be introducing the To-
bacco Tax Equity Act. This legislation
will establish the first Federal e-ciga-
rette tax. It will close loopholes ex-
ploited by Big Tobacco to avoid the
taxes, and it will double the Federal
Government tax rate and peg it to in-
flation so it remains an effective public
health tool in the future.
Studies have shown that even a 10-
percent tax lowers tobacco use by as
much as 5 percent. The Surgeon Gen-
eral and World Health Organization
have called it the most effective way to
reduce tobacco use. I think the same
will be true for e-cigarettes.
The FDA’s flavor ban announcement
was an important first step. Now we
need to make sure the ban is imple-
mented quickly and that it is enforced
strictly.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.005 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5551
September 18, 2019
We need the FDA to better regulate
e-cigarette devices, many of which are
easily tampered with and being used in
conjunction with adulterated and coun-
terfeit products.
We need the Surgeon General to
come up with a plan to help the mil-
lions of kids who are now addicted, and
we need to start taxing e-cigarette
companies who have created today’s
youth vaping epidemic.
A movie we have seen before of Big
Tobacco exploiting kids, finally—fi-
nally—resulted in public action against
those tobacco companies, and the rate
of teen tobacco cigarette smoking went
down dramatically. Let’s not sit
through that same movie again.
When it comes to vaping and e-ciga-
rettes, let’s move quickly to protect
our children.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak in leader
time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, the
appropriations process demands that
Republicans and Democrats work to-
gether. If one party decides to go it
alone, it can wreck the spirit of bipar-
tisanship necessary to responsibly fund
the government. Unfortunately, Repub-
licans elected to depart from a bipar-
tisan path early in the appropriations
process this year.
We had a bipartisan deal on the budg-
et caps—the 302(a), the defense-non-
defense side. We were working on allo-
cations to the 12 subcommittees when
the Republicans decided, without con-
sulting any Democrat, to divert funds
from medical research, opioid treat-
ment, and our military and their fami-
lies so they could appease the Presi-
dent’s wish to spend up to $12 billion
extra for a border wall—a wall, by the
way, that the President promised Mex-
ico would pay for.
Leader MCCONNELL and Chairman
SHELBY knew it would not fly with
Democrats, and this ruse—this stunt,
as the Republican leader is fond of call-
ing things that can’t pass—puts the en-
tire appropriations process in jeopardy.
Somehow, in the wake of all of this,
the Republican leader has been accus-
ing Democrats of threatening to block
military funding. That is an absurd
statement, if there ever was one. We
are simply trying to stop Republicans
from stealing the money from our mili-
tary and putting it into the wall, which
he said Mexico would pay for.
The outcome of the upcoming vote to
proceed to defense approps is not in
doubt. Leader MCCONNELL knows that
Democrats, as well as several Repub-
licans, oppose moving funds to the
President’s border wall that have been
duly allocated by Congress for other
important purposes, all military. The
fact that Leader MCCONNELL has sched-
uled this vote, knowing it would fail,
makes it nothing more than a partisan
stunt. My friend the leader reminds us
all the time that the Senate is the
place to make laws, not engage in po-
litical theater. With the vote, Leader
MCCONNELL will shatter his own rule.
At the same time, Republicans are
considering having a vote tomorrow to
instruct the NDAA conferees to back-
fill some of the money they want to di-
vert for the President’s wall. The
House already voted this down. Demo-
crats—myself, Speaker PELOSI, Chair-
man LOWEY, and Ranking Member
LEAHY—have been crystal clear. We are
not going to bless the President’s steal-
ing money from the military by back-
filling it later. This would render Con-
gress toothless and the appropriations
process meaningless. If the President is
allowed to take money from where
Congress allocates it and puts it wher-
ever he wants and we just give it back
to him, what is the point? Democrats
won’t vote for that ridiculous prece-
dent.
Let’s remember what this is all
about. The President pledged to build a
border wall that he promised Mexico
would pay for. He then broke that
promise and demanded Congress appro-
priate taxpayer dollars for the wall in-
stead. When Congress declined to do
that, the President declared a legally
dubious national emergency to divert
already allocated military funds to his
wall. Now he is trying yet again to ap-
propriate taxpayer money for the wall,
which is the same strategy that failed
when he tried it a year ago and then
threw a temper tantrum and promised
the famous Trump shutdown.
I know my Republican friends want
to wiggle out of this, but there is only
one way to return the money to our
troops, where it belongs: Republicans
and Democrats join together in voting
to terminate the President’s emer-
gency declaration.
ELECTION SECURITY
Mr. President, in the Appropriations
Committee markup tomorrow, there
will be a vote on an amendment to in-
crease election security funding for the
coming year. Senate Republicans
blocked a similar amount last year,
and, since then, Leader MCCONNELL has
stonewalled election security legisla-
tion, even the most bipartisan, sensible
compromises.
While we still greatly desire to move
that legislation and believe it to be es-
sential, additional funding for States
to harden their election infrastructure
and prevent Russian or Chinese or Ira-
nian interference is what this amend-
ment provides tomorrow and is a no-
brainer.
On the Senate floor yesterday, Lead-
er MCCONNELL said: ‘‘As partisanship
bogs us down here in Washington, Mos-
cow and Beijing are not exactly slow-
ing down to wait for us.’’ I agree. For-
eign adversaries are lining up to do
what Putin did in 2016.
With the Presidential campaign set
to begin in earnest next year, the time
is now to safeguard our elections from
foreign interference. The country will
be watching how Senate Republicans
vote on the election security amend-
ment tomorrow.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
Mr. President, it has been reported
that the Trump administration is plan-
ning to finalize a rule that would block
any State from getting ahead of the
Federal Government to deal with car-
bon pollution from cars. That includes
revoking a waiver granted to California
that allows the State to place more
stringent limits on carbon pollution
than the Federal Government. In the
Trump era, we are frequently con-
fronted with the absurd, but this is be-
yond ridiculous.
The President is the leader of the
self-proclaimed party of States’ rights.
Yet he is blocking States from setting
their own standards. This President
has repeatedly said that ‘‘we have the
cleanest air, the cleanest water,’’ al-
most like a mantra. Yet he is trying to
prevent California and other States
from cleaning up their air pollution.
The President’s position is, very sim-
ply put, this: No, California, I insist
you pollute more. That is in effect
what the President is saying.
Congress has spoken on this matter.
The Clean Air Act says, in no uncer-
tain terms, that California can go fur-
ther than the EPA to reduce pollution
from cars. So this is a terrible idea by
the EPA, a terrible idea by the Trump
administration, full of hypocrisy and
contradiction, clearly illegal, and I am
confident that it will be struck down.
NOMINATION OF ROBERT A. DESTRO
Mr. President, on one final issue, the
Destro nomination, today the Senate
will vote on the confirmation of Robert
Destro to serve as the Assistant Sec-
retary of State for Democracy, Human
Rights, and Labor, responsible for the
State Department’s promotion of de-
mocracy, civil rights, and fair working
standards across the world. Typical of
the Trump administration, they have
nominated someone whose record is
diametrically opposed to the mission of
the job to which he is nominated.
Mr. Destro has vocally opposed the
movement for LGBTQ equality and has
been a staunch supporter of State-level
religious freedom laws that have acted
as backdoors to discriminate against
LGBTQ Americans. He has a long
record of opposition to a woman’s con-
stitutional right to make her own
healthcare decisions. When asked
about the requirement that insurance
plans cover contraception, his response
was ‘‘the idea that you’re entitled to
have someone pay for your birth con-
trol pill is kind of ridiculous.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.007 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5552 September 18, 2019
If confirmed, Mr. Destro—this very
same Mr. Destro who is opposed to the
rights of women, who is opposed to the
rights of LGBTQ people—will be in
charge of promoting civil rights around
the world. What message would that
send to women and members of the
LGBTQ community who struggle under
intolerant and oppressive govern-
ments? The answer is obvious. That is
why yesterday every single Democrat,
and even one Republican, voted against
proceeding to his confirmation. I urge
my Republican colleagues to study Mr.
Destro’s record, consider the job he is
supposed to do, and join us in voting no
on his nomination.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE).
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Destro nomina-
tion?
Mr. BLUNT. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS),
and the Senator from South Dakota
(Mr. ROUNDS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR), the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS), and the Senator from
Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN) are nec-
essarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 49,
nays 44, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 289 Ex.]
YEAS—49
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—44
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Alexander
Booker
Klobuchar
Roberts
Rounds
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the next nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Brent James McIntosh, of Michigan, to
be an Under Secretary of the Treasury.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the McIntosh nomination?
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS),
and the Senator from South Dakota
(Mr. ROUNDS).
Further, if present and voting: the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHER), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN)
are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber wishing to vote
or to change their vote?
The result was announced—yeas 54,
nays 38, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 290 Ex.]
YEAS—54
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—38
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—8
Alexander
Bennet
Booker
Klobuchar
Roberts
Rounds
Sanders
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Brian Callanan,
of New Jersey, to be General Counsel
for the Department of the Treasury.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Callanan nomination?
Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS),
and the Senator from South Dakota
(Mr. ROUNDS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR), and the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 55,
nays 39, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 291 Ex.]
YEAS—55
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—39
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Paul
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.009 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5553
September 18, 2019
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Alexander
Booker
Klobuchar
Roberts
Rounds
Sanders
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motions to re-
consider are considered made and laid
upon the table. The President will be
immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
f
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that notwith-
standing rule XXII, the Senate proceed
to legislative session to resume consid-
eration of the motion to proceed to
H.R. 2740; further, that at 2:20 p.m.,
there be up to 20 minutes of debate
equally divided between the chairman
and ranking member; and that fol-
lowing the use or yielding back of that
time, the Senate vote on the cloture
motion on the motion to proceed to
H.R. 2740, with the mandatory quorum
call being waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES, EDUCATION, DE-
FENSE, STATE, FOREIGN OPER-
ATIONS, AND ENERGY AND
WATER DEVELOPMENT APPRO-
PRIATIONS ACT, 2020—Motion to
Proceed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to legislative session to resume
consideration of the motion to proceed
to H.R. 2740, which the clerk will re-
port.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Motion to proceed to Calendar No. 140,
H.R. 2740, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Labor, Health and Human Serv-
ices, and Education, and related agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and
for other purposes.
GUN CONTROL MEASURES
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, one of
most poignant moments of my life—
and certainly of my career here in the
Senate—came in 2017, when a gunman
opened fire on a Sunday service at the
little Baptist Church right outside of
Sutherland Springs, TX.
Twenty-six lives were lost that day;
20 people were injured; and the entire
community—that small, little commu-
nity outside of San Antonio—was shak-
en to its core by this hateful act.
It didn’t take us too long to learn
about the shooter—a man with a record
of domestic violence, animal cruelty,
and mental illness. He had been court-
martialed by the Air Force and con-
victed of serious domestic abuse, which
is a felony.
By law, the shooter should have been
prevented from purchasing or even pos-
sessing a firearm, but he wasn’t be-
cause the critically important informa-
tion about his criminal background
had not been uploaded into the rel-
evant background check databases
maintained by the FBI, even though a
Federal statute clearly states that all
Federal agencies are required to do so.
As a result, the gunman was able to un-
lawfully purchase four firearms, three
of which he used to carry out this des-
picable act.
In the wake of any tragedy like this,
you can’t help but ask: What if?
In this instance, it was our sad duty
to ask those questions, but we knew
the answer. If his criminal record had
been uploaded into the FBI background
check system, the shooter would have
been prevented from purchasing these
firearms that he used in the attack.
It was the worst kind of system fail-
ure. I searched my conscience, and I
searched the record to try to figure out
exactly what we might be able to do to
prevent acts like this from occurring in
the future.
Ten days after the shooting, I intro-
duced a bill called the Fix NICS Act.
Now, it is a little bit confusing. NICS is
the National Instant Criminal Back-
ground Check System. But it was clear
that we needed to fix the National In-
stant Criminal Background Check Sys-
tem—hence, the name Fix NICS Act,
which is now law.
That law broadened the background
check system to prevent violent crimi-
nals who shouldn’t be able to purchase
firearms from being able to do so. It
was actually one of the good things
that came out of this terrible tragedy.
At a time when division and partisan-
ship were much more common than
working together, we actually were
able to overcome that partisan divide
and division to pass this commonsense
solution to a real problem, which I am
convinced will save lives in the future.
This is the kind of thing our constitu-
ents expect us to do and what we need
to do more of.
It has been 2 years since the shooting
in Sutherland Springs. Unfortunately,
that was not the last mass violence
episode experienced by the State of
Texas. On August 3 of this year, a gun-
man stormed the El Paso Walmart,
killing 22 people and wounding two
dozen others. Less than a month later,
on August 31, a man went on a shooting
rampage in Midland and Odessa, killing
7 people and wounding 25.
I visited each of these cities in the
days following the shootings to pay my
respects to those who had lost loved
ones, to visit those who were still re-
covering in hospital rooms, and also to
thank the law enforcement officers
who I believe saved lives that would
have otherwise been lost but for their
quick and professional response.
In those early days, we were still
gathering information and working to
get to the bottom of how these shoot-
ings happened. Now that we have a
pretty good idea about what happened
and what didn’t happen that should
have happened, it is time to work on
solutions to help prevent these types of
episodes of mass violence in the future.
Over the weekend, the minority lead-
er here in the Senate and the House
Speaker said that any proposal that
does not include the House-passed uni-
versal background check legislation
‘‘will not get the job done.’’ But I
would say to them that there is simply
no evidence that if the House bill was
law, it would have prevented any of
these recent acts of violence.
I have to ask: If the solution that you
proposed would not have prevented
these acts from occurring, what is the
point? Is this about making a state-
ment? Is this about virtue signaling? Is
this about politics? Or is this about
trying to come up with solutions to the
problem?
We also know that the President has
repeatedly issued a veto threat on that
particular bill, and we know there is
zero—zero chance—that it will ever be-
come law. That is not what I call get-
ting the job done.
Some of the folks who don’t believe
in the Second Amendment are using
these tragedies to advance an agenda
rather than to try to solve a problem.
That is not good enough, and this is
not what the American people deserve.
I am not interested in introducing
legislation just because we are being
urged to ‘‘do something.’’ I am inter-
ested in trying to solve a problem and
save lives in the process. That is what
we did with the Fix NICS legislation,
and that is exactly what we need to do
by coming together once again.
In the wake of the shootings in El
Paso, Midland, and Odessa, I have been
working on some ideas that I believe
can, once again, help to unite Congress
so we can pass laws that will have a
real impact, and not just ‘‘do some-
thing.’’
One of the most important ways to
intervene as early as possible is to im-
prove access to mental health services.
Assisted outpatient treatment pro-
grams, otherwise known as AOTs, were
under the 21st Century Cures Act, as
part of a bill I introduced back then
called the Mental Health and Safe
Communities Act.
What is so important about assisted
outpatient treatment programs is the
alternatives available to a family
member. When your son or daughter or
your spouse or your parent or your
brother or your sister becomes men-
tally ill and is suffering a crisis, your
options are extraordinarily limited.
The assistant outpatient treatment
programs provide alternatives to allow
a family member to help somebody un-
dergoing a mental health crisis who
otherwise might be a danger to them-
selves and others.
We know that the most common
cause of gun-related deaths are sui-
cides. If we could somehow get people
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE6.002 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5554 September 18, 2019
the mental health treatment they need
early, before they even think about
taking their own life, we would save
many lives. If we can get people—like
Adam Lanza, for example, in Sandy
Hook—mental health treatment, so he
does not become violent to others as
well, I think we have a very realistic
opportunity to actually save lives
going forward.
The Mental Health and Safe Commu-
nities Act also increased resources and
training for law enforcement and first
responders to identify those with men-
tal illness and respond with treatment-
based alternatives. By strengthening
and expanding these programs and
prioritizing a strong mental health
workforce, I believe we can avert po-
tential crises before they happen—not
all of them, but I think we can make
some real progress.
Additionally, I think there are things
we could do to build on the success of
Fix NICS by enforcing current law and
improving the existing background
check system.
We know we need to take decisive ac-
tion against individuals who are vio-
lating current law by selling and man-
ufacturing large numbers of firearms
without a Federal firearms license. It
is clearly Congress’s intent to make
sure that if you are in the business of
buying and selling firearms in a com-
mercial enterprise, you should be li-
censed by the Bureau of Alcohol and
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, or
the ATF.
For example, the shooter in Odessa
attempted to purchase a firearm from a
licensed dealer, but because licensed
dealers must perform background
checks, he flunked it. He managed to
circumvent the background check re-
quirement by later purchasing his
weapon from an individual who was ob-
viously in the business of manufac-
turing and selling firearms, but who
never registered as a firearms dealer.
Thus, the shooter evaded a background
check, because, as I said, all federally
licensed firearms dealers are required
to do that.
We know that, under current law, it
can be difficult to prosecute individ-
uals who are circumventing Federal
law when they fail to register as a fed-
erally licensed firearms dealer. I be-
lieve Congress has a role—and there is
a pretty clear path forward—to clarify
existing law so that unlicensed dealers
can be prosecuted and more people in
the business of selling firearms will be-
come federally licensed firearms deal-
ers and, thus, by definition, end up
doing more background checks when
they are in the business of doing so.
As we have learned as well, it is also
important for us to take additional
steps to harden soft targets like
schools. We know that people don’t
generally try to shoot up a police sta-
tion. They go to the soft targets, where
these cowards know they will not be
met with much resistance. We need to
improve intervention and threat as-
sessment at schools and share informa-
tion more broadly between teachers,
parents, and counselors so we can iden-
tify potential acts of violence before
they occur.
My point is that we need to focus on
things that could actually work. In the
case of the Fix NICS Act, it was able to
become law because it had the support
of both Republicans and Democrats
here in Congress, as well as the Presi-
dent. That is precisely what we need to
do again.
The sorts of things I mentioned are
real and meaningful changes we can
make here to prevent more commu-
nities from grieving from additional
tragedies. I hope we rise to the occa-
sion and once again work together and
come up with consensus legislation. I,
as one Senator, am willing to work
with anyone on either side of the aisle
to build consensus and to pass legisla-
tion that will make our country and
our communities safer.
BRETT KAVANAUGH
Mr. President, briefly on another
matter, Justice Brett Kavanaugh was
confirmed almost a year ago, but that
hasn’t stopped the partisans on the left
from carrying out their fact-devoid
smear campaign.
About this time last year, the con-
firmation hearing for an exceptionally
well-qualified nominee to the Supreme
Court was turned into a media circus
over uncorroborated and unsubstan-
tiated allegations. I had hoped that we
had moved beyond this embarrassing
chapter for the Senate and for the
country, but the circus has somehow
returned.
This time, the wild accusations
didn’t play out here in the Senate but
rather in the New York Times. That
newspaper ran a story over the week-
end that publicized more unsubstan-
tiated allegations against the Justice
from way back when he was in college.
The authors and editors managed to
leave out the most critical detail of the
entire story. The woman at the center
of this reported alleged event declined
to be interviewed by the journalists,
and her friends say she doesn’t even re-
call such an event from occurring. But
the New York Times printed it any-
way.
Well, the reaction was predictable
and immediate. As members of the
media began pointing out this glaring
hole in the story, some Democrats saw
an opportunity to continue their smear
campaign against this good man. They
pounced on these unsubstantiated
claims as evidence of wrongdoing by
Justice Kavanaugh and began calling
for his impeachment.
Once the paper issued its colossal
correction, none of these folks backed
down or apologized for calling for the
impeachment of this good judge, this
good man, even though the newspaper
admitted their error.
This isn’t about the allegations or an
investigation, or even Justice
Kavanaugh, for that matter. This is
just the latest assault on the independ-
ence of the Federal judiciary by a
party that is struggling to come to
grips with reality.
From alarming court-packing calls
to baseless allegations against a sitting
Supreme Court Justice, I am not anx-
ious to see what sort of reprehensible
allegations and attacks they come up
with next.
I would like to reiterate the commit-
ment made by the majority leader ear-
lier this week. As long as we remain in
the Senate, we will prevent this type of
mob rule and this sort of media circus
and fight to preserve the rule of law
and the independence of our judiciary.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). The Senator from Missouri.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, later in
the day—certainly today or tomor-
row—we will have a vote on whether
we want to move forward on this year’s
appropriations process. The vote would
allow us to move forward. Frankly, it
would and should allow every Member
to make any amendment they want
and to debate this bill on the floor, as
bills should be debated. If they don’t
like the House bill that we will take
up—and many of us would not like the
House bill—they have a chance to sub-
stitute that with another bill or make
amendments on that bill. I would like
to see this process get started.
A significant part of the House bill
was the Labor, Health and Human
Services, and Education portion. I
chair that bill in the Senate. It is after
the Defense bill, which would also be
part of this bill, which, by the way, has
the biggest pay increase for those who
defend us, in a decade in it. After the
Defense bill, the Labor, Health and
Human Services, and Education bill is
about 30 percent of all the money left.
So just those two bills together is a
significant amount of all Federal
spending.
It would be great if we could get this
done on time again this year, as we did
for 70 percent of the spending last year.
I am disappointed in the bill that we
actually made public as part of an al-
ternative today. For the first time in 4
years, we weren’t able to work with our
friends on the other side and have a bi-
partisan bill. This was a bill that was
designed not to bring a lot of con-
troversial legislating into the appro-
priating process but to do the appro-
priating, to leave the language in the
bills that had been there before that
may have been controversial at one
time but has long become part of the
bill but not add new things.
We agreed to and the President
signed a bipartisan agreement that re-
iterated that principle and set a total
amount of money to be spent. In retro-
spect, it might have been better if we
had also allocated that money between
the 12 committees. We didn’t do that.
We basically allocated the defense part
and the nondefense part. Because of
that, we were not able to reach an
agreement with the minority to mark
up this bill the way I would have liked
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.013 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5555
September 18, 2019
to and I think, frankly, they would
have liked to. Certainly, the ranking
member and her staff have been an im-
portant part of this discussion.
This bill—the bill that would be our
alternative today—includes funding
that they would like and I like. There
is a new suicide initiative. It increases
early childhood care and education pro-
grams. There are new mental health
workforce programs involved here. We
invest in homeless youth education in
the way that I think the Senate ulti-
mately will. Those are all things that
we have tried to move forward on in a
way that I am confident the minority
is not opposed to. I think they will find
little to criticize, frankly, in the bill.
We didn’t engage in a lot of new lan-
guage. Some of the Republicans Mem-
bers, including me, would like to see
some further defining language in the
bill, but that really gets to authorizing
and not appropriating. That gets to
passing legislation that should go
through other committees and not just
deciding how much money we are going
to spend on those activities that the
Federal Government has to participate
in, is authorized to participate in,
starting with the Constitution itself,
the principal authorization to defend
the country.
In the Labor-HHS bill, we moved for-
ward with things we have worked to-
gether on now for 4 years—a $3 billion
increase in our Federal investment in
NIH, the National Institutes of Health;
opioid treatment and recovery that fol-
lows on our earlier commitments and
moves that number to $3.9 billion. We
strengthened the workforce in this bill,
particularly the apprenticeships, with
the idea that sooner rather than later,
people should get a sense of the kind of
job they would like to do and under-
stand the pathway to work, which for
some people involves a college edu-
cation and for lots of people does not.
I think 50 percent of the people who
graduated from college are working at
jobs that don’t have anything to do
with their college degrees. That doesn’t
mean the college degree was bad; it
just means it is not the universal path-
way that I think for almost a genera-
tion now we have talked about—how
that was going to lead to better in-
comes and stronger families and all of
that. What leads to better incomes and
stronger families is a good job. It is
doing things. You get out of high
school and get a job and get married. If
you can do it in that order, you are
much more likely to not have concerns
about poverty than if you try to skip
any of those or do it some other way.
For a long time, this bill has been
one of the most difficult bills to nego-
tiate. It has many of the hot-button
issues that the country and the Con-
gress deal with. Again, for the last 3
years—and that was for the first time
in a decade—we have had a bipartisan
bill. I think at the end of the day, we
will have a bipartisan agreement again,
but unfortunately our friends on the
minority have—I think in their frus-
tration about the allocation of
money—decided: Well, even though we
have agreed not to fight about new
issues—adding things to the appropria-
tions bill that haven’t been there be-
fore—we are going to fight about that.
We are going to say what the President
can do about this, and we are going to
say what doctors can do about that.
That is not what this bill does or is
designed to do.
As I mentioned earlier, one of the
things we have done is one of my top
priorities as chairman, which is to
move forward at this unbelievably im-
portant time with health research. I
can’t help but point out that 4 years
ago, NIH hadn’t had a penny increase,
not an inflationary increase, not any
increase for 12 years. This was basi-
cally the same 12 years in which we
began to figure out how important it
was that we now understood the human
genome. This was the same 12 years
that cancer researchers were looking
at immunotherapy. This was the same
12 years that people were beginning to
talk about, well, maybe you can do
some editing with CRISPR technology
that will prevent a future thing from
occurring, that you could look at that
genetic makeup and know it is going to
occur. There was not a penny increase.
Four years ago, the research commu-
nity said they were 22 percent below—
in research buying power—where they
had been 12 years earlier. We caught up
on that. If we are able to move forward
with the $3 billion increase, we will
have had a 40-percent increase over five
budgets. Now we are probably talking
about really new money beyond where
NIH was a dozen years ago. This 40-per-
cent increase matters.
The House and Senate have worked
together. Congresswoman DELAURO
and Congressman COLE have worked to-
gether with Senator MURRAY and me to
make this a priority. I think we want
to do that again. I think the facts will
show that.
Why should it be a priority? The
most expensive disease in America
right now is Alzheimer’s. The cost to
treat Alzheimer’s patients is antici-
pated to rise to $1.1 trillion by 2050 if
we don’t find some way to get what is
happening headed in a different direc-
tion. And $1.1 trillion, by the way, is
essentially double the defense budget. I
don’t know about you—I don’t have a
very good sense of how much $1.1 tril-
lion is, but I have a good sense of what
we spend all over the world, as Ameri-
cans, to defend the country and help
defend the world. We will be spending
twice that amount in today’s dollars—
taxpayers—on Alzheimer’s and demen-
tia treatment in 2050 if we don’t find a
solution. So I think quadrupling the
amount of money that we spend in this
area would make more sense. We are
spending a little more than 2 percent
on research, of the tax dollars we are
spending on treatment right now, and,
again, that only gets to be a bigger
problem.
Further, the bill increases funding
for the BRAIN Initiative, to map the
human brain, to $500 million.
I had somebody in my office this
morning saying that pediatric brain
cancer is now a bigger threat to kids
than leukemia. We made a real effort
on leukemia. We are now moving to an-
other area that is now attacking the
lives and ending the lives, perhaps, of
more juveniles than leukemia has.
We have an investment for the first
time in new ways of helping caregivers
of patients with Alzheimer’s. The an-
ticipation is that for every government
dollar spent—and today that would be
about $600 billion a year—for every
government dollar spent, there are two
private dollars spent, almost never in-
sured. A lot of that is somebody decid-
ing in their family that they are going
to give up part or all of their work to
take care of somebody they care about.
We are fully funding the administra-
tion’s request to end the HIV epidemic
in the next 10 years. We have con-
fidence in NIH that this is possible. We
have that in sight. If we could end that
as a life-threatening epidemic, it would
be a big thing.
We are moving forward with com-
bating the opioid epidemic. Our com-
mittee was a little bit ahead of the au-
thorizers in realizing this is a huge
problem for so many people in the
country today.
We are making an additional $100
million national commitment in men-
tal health. NIH says that one in four or
one in five adult Americans has a
diagnosable and almost always treat-
able behavioral health issue.
Those are just some of the many
things this bill does.
There is $5 million requested by the
minority to train professionals to pro-
vide mental health and substance
abuse counseling. If you didn’t have a
behavioral health issue before you got
addicted, you will definitely have a be-
havioral health issue once you have
been addicted. This doesn’t just end by
saying we can give you something to
get you off the opioid or the drug ad-
diction you have; you have to mentally
get away from that addiction as well.
We also focus on education. There are
workforce initiatives to prepare young-
er people for jobs that are out there
and prepare our entire workforce for
the jobs that come next. We shouldn’t
be in the business of defending just any
job; we want to defend viable jobs that
are going to be viable today and hope-
fully part of the future. We want to en-
sure that workers are ready for the
next job.
It maintains funding for campus-
based student aid for people who are
likely the first people in their families
to ever attend college—I was the first
person in my family to graduate from
college—and the TRIO Programs, to
get high school kids thinking about the
fact that they can go to college as one
of their options and what it would
mean to them if they do that, to do
things that help people stay in college
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.015 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5556 September 18, 2019
and do things that get people ready for
real jobs that are out there.
One of the things I have noticed in
the last year is how many people in
their late twenties are still trying to
decide what to do. I call it the lost dec-
ade. I have had so many conversations
that went something like this: Well, I
went to college for a semester or a
year, and then I was an Uber driver for
a while, and I did some landscaping. I
was in retail at the lowest level. I was
a bartender. Finally, it just occurred to
me that this is not working. I have no
retirement plan. I have no benefits. I
don’t make enough money to have the
kind of family I would like to have.
If you missed that decade, you are
lucky to ever get it back. A few people
can somehow recover from that eco-
nomically and replace that lost decade.
But the quicker you become part of an
economy that you want to be part of,
the better off you will be.
In this bill, we are increasing ele-
mentary and secondary education sup-
port programs, like the Individuals
with Disabilities Education Act, and
there is a Pell increase for the third
year in a row for people who have Pell
assistance when they go to school.
We prioritized programs that benefit
the country. We tried hard not to do
that in a partisan way. I believe that
at the end of the day, if Democrats
look at this bill, they might argue
about the amount of money available,
but I think they would have a hard
time arguing that it is not a bill that
tries to really meet the challenges we
face as a country.
I would like to see us move with this
bill and all four of the House bills in
the package we vote on today and hope
to see that happen when that vote oc-
curs.
Mr. President, I suggest the absence
of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). Without objection,
it is so ordered.
REMEMBERING CHIEF STANDING BEAR
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I rise
today to celebrate the life and legacy
of Chief Standing Bear. In about an
hour, Members of the Nebraska con-
gressional delegation, Governor
Ricketts, and House and Senate leaders
will gather in Statuary Hall to dedi-
cate a statue in his honor. I am proud
that the State of Nebraska put forth
his statue because America needs to
hear his story.
When Joe Starita, a professor at the
University of Nebraska-Lincoln and es-
teemed author, speaks on Chief Stand-
ing Bear’s life, he often begins with re-
citing a quote from novelist, poet, and
farmer Wendell Berry. Wendell Berry
once wrote: If you do not understand
where you are, you do not understand
who you are.
If you live in Nebraska, you under-
stand this fully. This knowledge
doesn’t come from maps or directions.
It springs from a true love of the land—
working on it, cultivating it, raising a
family, building strong communities,
taking pride in your life’s work, and
the sweat and tears that generations of
your family put into it. It means en-
during its disasters and enjoying those
cool peaceful nights full of stars. Chief
Standing Bear and the Ponca Tribe un-
derstood this.
Imagine his surprise when on a cold
January day in 1877, he and his Tribe
were told to leave their beloved land.
His Tribe had lived on their reservation
for more than 200 years, and now they
were being forced to travel nearly 600
miles to the south to Indian territory
in Oklahoma.
Under the threat of bayonets, the
young and old, men, women, and chil-
dren packed up their possessions and
began to walk. By the time the Tribe
reached the territory, they were endur-
ing the scorching months of summer.
Harvest season had passed, and the
Tribe could not grow crops for the win-
ter months. Starvation was rampant,
and mosquitoes swarmed the reserva-
tion with malaria. After a year and a
half, the Ponca lost over one-third of
their Tribe, including Chief Standing
Bear’s son.
In the final moments of his life, his
son made him promise that he would be
buried in the Ponca Tribe’s homeland
in Nebraska.
To give his son the sacred burial he
wanted, Chief Standing Bear led a 600-
mile quest back to Nebraska, but with
only an estimated 2 days of travel left
ahead, he was stopped by the U.S. Cav-
alry and arrested. Chief Standing Bear
was thrown in prison and was forced to
prove that he had God-given rights as a
human being.
During this time, word began to
spread throughout communities about
his journey. Suddenly, people began to
rally around this devoted father’s
story. Eventually, cries for justice re-
sulted in a historic trial in the U.S.
District Court in Omaha.
The lawyers made their arguments.
Then the judge granted Chief Standing
Bear the opportunity to speak. The
Chief rose and stood in silence while
the packed courtroom anxiously wait-
ed. What followed was one of the great-
est speeches in American history.
Turning to face the judge, he held up
his hand and said:
This hand is not the color of yours, but if
I pierce it, I shall feel pain. If you pierce
your hand, you also feel pain. The blood that
will flow from mine will be of the same color
as yours. I am a man. The same God made us
both.
Reports tell us that when Chief
Standing Bear was finished speaking,
the courtroom was filled with sounds of
sobbing. A local Omaha World Herald
reporter recounted that he saw tears
on the judge’s face. GEN George Crook,
the defendant in the case, was one of
the first in the sea of people to shake
the Chief’s hand. Days later, the judge
ruled in favor of Chief Standing Bear.
At long last, the landmark decision
extended ‘‘equal justice under law’’ to
Native Americans.
Nearly 75 years later, a courageous
woman carried a similar message of
equality in Montgomery, AL. Rosa
Parks, whose statue is also in Statuary
Hall, knew that standing strong for her
God-given dignity was worth risking
everything she had.
Months after her arrest, she said she
‘‘would have to know for once and for
all what rights I had as a human being
and a citizen.’’
I will close with this. The room we
will gather in later for the dedication
ceremony is known as Statuary Hall.
Until 1857, the House of Representa-
tives met there, and their business was
overseen by another statue, Clio—the
muse of history. She was the source of
inspiration for the political leaders at
the time and served as a reminder that
they were part of history.
She is still there above the door lead-
ing to the Rotunda, keeping notes, doc-
umenting who we are now and where
we are going. Today she will turn a
new page.
In Statuary Hall, the very room
where she observed Congress shame-
fully passing the Indian Removal Act,
we will dedicate a statue to honor the
life of Chief Standing Bear. It is an-
other important lesson in our Nation’s
story that in the end, with bravery, de-
termination, and empathy, human free-
dom will always prevail.
It is a great honor to celebrate the
life and contributions of Chief Stand-
ing Bear. I know his statue will inspire
millions of visitors who visit the U.S.
Capitol every year. I am proud that
Chief Standing Bear’s legacy and the
message of equality lives on in our
great cathedral of democracy.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
CONSTITUTION DAY
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, it is typi-
cally tradition to exchange gifts on an-
niversaries, but yesterday we cele-
brated the anniversary of a truly re-
markable gift given to each of us as
Americans: the Constitution.
On September 17, 1787, our Founding
Fathers concluded the Constitutional
Convention by proposing a new form of
government based upon inalienable
rights and self-determination of the
American people. The Founders of our
great Nation devoted incredible fore-
sight to the very structure on which
our country is built, with the goal of
protecting our rights as citizens for
generations to come.
Folks, we celebrate Constitution Day
with gratitude—gratitude for the un-
precedented freedoms this document
guarantees, freedoms which have en-
dured more than 230 years. As the
world’s oldest working national Con-
stitution, the U.S. Constitution con-
tinues to withstand the test of time
and remains among the most impor-
tant documents ever to be written. It
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.016 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5557
September 18, 2019
not only established our government
institutions such as Congress, the Pres-
idency, and the courts, but it also lim-
ited the power of each to protect
against tyranny.
As constructed, our government can
only exercise the limited powers spe-
cifically outlined in the Constitution,
but the freedoms that all of us cherish
deeply and that are so often taken for
granted are forever guaranteed by the
Constitution and its Bill of Rights.
These include the freedom of reli-
gion, so we may worship freely what we
know to be true in our hearts; freedom
of speech, to debate and openly discuss
as we endlessly seek to become that
‘‘more perfect Union’’; a free press, to
share information with every citizen
from north to south, from coast to
coast, and to and from my home in
Iowa; the right to peacefully assemble
and enact change; due process, to en-
sure justice for every individual and
protection against cruel and unusual
punishment to those who are con-
victed; and the right of law-abiding
citizens to bear arms.
Folks, the words of this Constitution,
our sacred Constitution, have endured
because they work. The Constitution
sets the stage for the generations that
follow to continue to expand its ‘‘Bless-
ings of Liberty,’’ including: The 13th
Amendment that abolished slavery, the
15th Amendment which guaranteed Af-
rican Americans the right to vote, and
the 19th Amendment, which was ap-
proved by Congress 100 years ago this
past July, granting women the right to
vote.
The Constitution does more to pro-
tect liberty than any political docu-
ment ever composed. It actively guar-
antees life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness that our Founders merely
hoped for at the drafting of the Dec-
laration of Independence.
To tamper with any of the rights
promised to us at the founding of our
Nation is to weaken the structure upon
which our liberty was promised. Even
in polarized times, these principles
continue to ring true and unite us as
Americans.
Before each of us in this Chamber
began our service to the people of our
own great States, we first swore an
oath to support and defend the Con-
stitution of the United States. Every
man and woman who enlists in our Na-
tion’s Armed Forces, as I have, begins
their service by swearing a similar
oath.
Folks, the political winds may blow
left, and they may blow right, but we
can rest assured that no one can take
away these guaranteed freedoms. With
every new bill we consider, we must al-
ways pause to ensure that it is adher-
ing to the rights outlined in our Con-
stitution.
There is nowhere in the world that
enjoys the constitutional freedoms
that American citizens do today. Those
rights and freedoms apply to each one
of us equally. No one is above the law,
and no one is beneath it.
The Constitution is a guidepost for
justice and democracy and encom-
passes the bedrock of our ideals as
Americans. Most importantly, the Con-
stitution keeps a promise that power
shall forever remain with ‘‘We the Peo-
ple.’’
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I rise in
commemoration of Constitution Day,
celebrated nationwide yesterday, the
date, September 17.
Two hundred thirty-two years ago,
our Founding Fathers gathered at
Independence Hall in Philadelphia and
signed a document that remains the su-
preme law of the land today. In those
232 years, the United States has be-
come the most powerful, the most pros-
perous Nation in the history of the
world, and that success has come as a
result of the framework set by our Con-
stitution.
The genius of the Framers was their
determination to maximize the free-
dom of the individual while recognizing
the need for a central government lim-
ited in size by our Constitution. The
Founders understood the nature of
man. The Founders understood that
power corrupts.
Under the framework of federalism,
we created a divide between the States
and the Federal Government, allowing
for powers to be shared. In fact, the
10th Amendment states:
The powers not delegated to the United
States by the Constitution, nor prohibited
by it to the States, are reserved to the
States respectively, or to the people.
At the Federal level, we established
three coequal branches of government,
which established a system of checks
and balances to offset the concentra-
tion of power. To complement the laws
established, our Founders put in place
the Bill of Rights as a safeguard to pro-
tect the individual from the threat of
government tyranny. Our sacred rights
and freedoms endowed by our Creator
are recognized as inherent and un-
touchable because of our Bill of Rights.
As the Father of our Constitution,
James Madison, stated:
In Europe, charters of liberty have been
granted by power. America has set the exam-
ple . . . of charters of power granted by lib-
erty.
Our constitutional system of govern-
ment is the envy of the world and has
served as a model for countries world-
wide that are seeking to create rep-
resentative governments. That is why
it is so important for us to observe
days like Constitution Day. Americans
of all ages should be learning and
should be studying our Constitution.
They should be taking in what makes
our Constitution so uniquely successful
in nurturing a free and a prosperous so-
ciety. Our grand experiment has stood
the test of time, yet we must continue
to be vigilant in the preservation of
this most important part of our Amer-
ican legacy.
So, today, I encourage every Mon-
tanan and every American to read the
Constitution. Discuss it at the dinner
table. Discuss it with your family
members. Discuss it in your class-
rooms. Discuss it with your friends.
Discuss it with your neighbors.
As the preamble states, ‘‘We the Peo-
ple’’ established our Constitution, and
it remains up to ‘‘We the People’’ to
ensure its success.
May God continue to bless this great
Nation.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, on
September 17, 1787, this great experi-
ment was finalized to try to form what
they considered a more perfect Union,
and the birth of our Constitution hap-
pened. This was a radical experiment in
self-government, and most of the rest
of the world at the time stared at those
whom we now call our Founding Fa-
thers and thought, that will never
work.
It wasn’t a parliamentary system. It
wasn’t a monarchy. It was a represent-
ative republic, and it was pulling some-
thing out of the thoughts and the
hearts of people to say: This is inher-
ently what we think would work.
It began with the simple concept of
checks and balances—that one person
would check another person who would
check another person. They were able
to put that into a governmental struc-
ture that had three coequal branches—
an executive, a legislative, and judicial
branch—so that we don’t have one over
the other. The three stand on equal
footing. Each of them watches the
other.
It was a unique system of putting a
legislative branch together that had
one body made up of the House of Rep-
resentatives that would be large, bois-
terous, and up for election every two
years.
The most painful parts of govern-
ment—that are required of govern-
ment—are put into the hands of the
people who are closest to the people.
Those are the power of impeachment,
the power of the purse, and the power
of things that need to be done by gov-
ernment but can be done only by peo-
ple who are closest to the government.
Then they were able to create a Sen-
ate with longer terms, closer to the
States, and a larger perspective on how
we would structure together to make
sure that we protect the rights of the
individual States and the uniqueness
of, at that time, those 13 States all
joining together. It was a radical idea
and a complete shift from where we
had just been.
As Americans, occasionally we forget
that this wasn’t our first time to try to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.019 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5558 September 18, 2019
put a government together. Prior to
1787, we had Articles of Confederation
that basically had 13 different States
that were very loosely connected to
each other, that continued to spar with
each other, and that didn’t cooperate
together. Eventually, they determined
that we had to do something different.
After our practice round of the Arti-
cles of Confederation, we put together
this Constitution. But even after the
Constitution was put into place, when
the very first Congress came into ses-
sion, they immediately began work on
12 amendments that, at that time, they
called the Bill of Rights. That is right;
there were 12 amendments. We are so
used to hearing about the 10 amend-
ments in the Bill of Rights, but they
started with 12. They debated and they
edited and they worked it through, and
those 12 ended up becoming 10. Those 10
amendments were added as our Bill of
Rights, but we continue to be able to
edit and to be able to work together as
a country.
Eventually, we fought a civil war—
one of the most tragic parts of the en-
tire history of our Nation. Yet this
Constitution still kept us together at
the end, and we still function together.
Since the original 10 Bill of Rights,
we have added 17 different amendments
to the Constitution. This enduring doc-
ument, after more than two centuries,
continues to be the foundation of every
single law in the United States. It is
unlike many parts of the world even
still today.
In much of the world, they change
constitutions every time their Mon-
arch changes. They change constitu-
tions every time their government
changes. And when an executive branch
decides they don’t particularly like
what is happening in the legislative
branch, they just demand a new con-
stitution and shift the laws of the en-
tire country.
We don’t. We started with a Constitu-
tion and started with the simple prin-
ciple that the law matters. We con-
tinue to build on that basic law. When
our preferences change, the law still
exceeds our preferences. And if there is
a change that we need to make in law,
we agree together to make a change in
law.
We still continue to respect the
uniqueness of, now, all 50 States and of
local authorities. We still have coun-
ties and cities and parishes and munici-
palities. They oversee school boards.
They make day-to-day decisions. They
provide local first responders, garbage
collection, recycling, public transpor-
tation, parks and recreation. They
manage utilities. They decide street
names, deal with local roads, street
signs, and zoning laws. It is all done lo-
cally; it is not done federally. The Fed-
eral Government has nothing to do
with that.
Then, larger than the local munici-
palities, we have the States. They es-
tablish local governments. They estab-
lish public schools, issue teaching cer-
tificates, and licenses for professionals
like doctors, lawyers, psychiatrists—as
many types of professions as they
choose. They decide the time, manner,
and places of elections because those
are the responsibilities of the States.
They determine motor vehicle registra-
tions, driver’s licenses, marriage li-
censes, business licenses. They regulate
commerce within their State.
Our simple system is not only broken
up into three different branches of gov-
ernment, but it is also broken up into
local governments, State governments,
and unique responsibilities for the Fed-
eral Government. That begins with our
national defense, which is uniquely a
role that we can do together as a Fed-
eral Government. Then there are inter-
state commerce and managing treaties
with foreign entities. It is the responsi-
bility of the larger government.
This unique experiment that was rad-
ical in its day is still the envy of the
world to this day, and there is a reason
we pause each year in September and
remember Constitution Day.
I think about how often we celebrate
the Declaration of Independence every
Fourth of July and think about Thom-
as Jefferson—his writing and all of the
editing that then happened with his
document after he wrote it. We some-
times lose track of a day in September
when we can pause and think of that
second document in our founding after
the Declaration—the U.S. Constitu-
tion—that remains the foundation of
every law that we still continue with
today. We could not be more grateful
for a stable foundation for our Nation.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I join my
two colleagues who were just here and
spoke while I was here—my friend from
Montana and my friend from Okla-
homa—to talk about, really, the
uniqueness of the government we have
and of the unbelievable coming to-
gether of ideas in Philadelphia in 1787.
They were ideas, frankly, that nobody
had ever thought of in quite the same
way before, starting with the first
three words. This was the only docu-
ment that had ever been devised up
until that time that had suggested that
the source of government was the
source of government that the Con-
stitution recognizes immediately.
When the Magna Carta talked about
the relationship between the King and
the barons of England, that was even a
big step in a new direction because, up
until then, under monarchies, there
was only one source of government,
which was God. God’s ordained, chosen
Monarch was viewed by country, after
country, after country as the way this
should be done, and there would be a
succession, and it would be understood.
It had, really, nothing to do with you
or me or anybody else. It was all some
greater plan that was left up to some-
body else.
The Articles of Confederation that
Mr. LANKFORD mentioned was a weak
form of government that just simply,
after a little more than a decade, had
been proven not to work. It was just
not a workable structure. Yet it looked
to the States. It was sort of ‘‘we the
States of the United States enter into
this agreement as States.’’
Yet it was this brand new concept in
the Constitution that was put on paper
at least for the first time—that of ‘‘we
the people.’’ In 1787—in reality, when
the Constitution was adopted and the
government was formed in 1789—the
people became the source of govern-
ment. The people became the respon-
sible party. The people became the
party by which, if the government
weren’t doing what you wanted it to
do, it was up to you to do something
about it because the government was
only there because of you.
Now, is ‘‘we the people’’ a totally in-
clusive, perfect document or was it
even a perfect idea in 1787? Not at all.
In fact, the Constitution goes on to
read that we are doing this to form a
more perfect union. It doesn’t even
suggest the forming of a perfect Union.
It just suggests forming a more perfect
Union with the understanding of a
range of vision of what might happen.
There were people who were advocating
for women to be able to vote as Abigail
Adams had advocated during the Revo-
lution itself. There were people advo-
cating that slavery be ended. There
were many things that were evidenced
in that room as part of the debate that
didn’t happen, but they didn’t wait to
have a perfect Union. They said they
were going to form a more perfect
Union, and you have to believe they as-
sumed it would get more perfect as
time went on.
Here we are 200-some years later. Is
it perfect yet? No, but it is, hopefully,
more perfect than it has been and is
less perfect than it will be because we
the people are going to come together
in this Convention and then, later,
adopt it in a bigger setting to form a
more perfect Union. That more perfect
Union would include ideas that nobody
had ever thought about before.
If the people are forming the govern-
ment, what kind of controls do you put
on the government? Not too many con-
trols.
I remember, with the Bicentennial of
the Constitution, Warren Burger was
the Chairman of the Bicentennial Com-
mission and the Chief Justice of the
United States. He said, when he was a
boy, you measured the value of a horse
by how little harness you could put it
on and still get it to do the work you
wanted done. You didn’t totally handi-
cap the horse by piling all kinds of har-
nesses and all kinds of reins and all
kinds of bits. A valuable horse was a
horse that didn’t need to take all kinds
of structure but had all the structure it
needed. That is what the Constitution
tried to put together, not a govern-
ment that would overwhelm itself but
a government that had enough to con-
trol itself.
They came up with this idea of a bal-
ance of power. As all of us would be-
lieve, they started describing the most
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.021 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5559
September 18, 2019
important part of the government in
article I. That is why it was article I
that set up the Congress—the House
and the Senate. They then came up
with an executive who would execute
the will of the article I body—the body
that decided how to spend the money
and the body that would decide what
laws could get on the President’s desk
and the body that had the ability, if
the President didn’t sign the law, to
override the President’s decision not to
sign the law.
All of that was there in that balance
of power. It was where the Congress
had strengths, where the executive had
strengths, and where even the Court
comes in to serve often as a referee be-
tween the two. It is sometimes to tell
the President what the President can
do and what the Congress can’t do.
Sometimes it is just the opposite and
says: No, you can’t do this. You can ap-
propriate the money, but you can’t ap-
propriate it conditionally. You can’t
appropriate the money and say, to get
the money, the President has to do
things that don’t have anything to do
with the appropriations process. We
just want the President to behave dif-
ferently. We can’t do that, and the
President shouldn’t be able to do it ei-
ther. The courts are often the group
that decides that.
Again, in not having too many obli-
gations in the Constitution, what does
the Constitution say about the courts?
It does not say a lot.
It reads there will be a Supreme
Court and such other courts as the
Congress decides are necessary. That is
not a very complex structure. It
doesn’t say how many people are going
to be on the Supreme Court. There
have been different numbers over time.
It doesn’t say how many other courts
there will be. Yet the courts are there,
and the judges serve for life. Outside of
the normal concerns that they might
have that one of the other groups
would decide whether they could con-
tinue to serve or not, that may be their
greatest power—that they are there no
matter what they decide unless their
decisions are so extraordinary that
somehow the other power decides to re-
move them.
So here we are. It is a living docu-
ment. It is amendable. It is a living
document through its amendments, not
through its interpretation.
The Founders and those who believe
the Constitution continues to serve a
constitutional purpose never thought,
well, we will decide later what the
Founders would have thought that sen-
tence meant. This has divided our
country, by the way, for a while. Many
people, along with me, think the Con-
stitution means what it says it means
and what you would have thought it
would have meant in the context of the
time. If you want to change that, there
is a process to change it. The amend-
ment process works beyond just the
first 10 amendments and the other
amendments that Senator LANKFORD
talked about, and it is still there to do
that.
Here we are, celebrating this unique
moment when people came together
with ideas that were put on paper and
were approved. Even if they had been
talked about before, they had never
formed the basis for a government be-
fore. Yet here we are—well over 200
years beyond 1787 and the first year of
the government, 1789. The Constitution
has been the model for all kinds of con-
stitutions by all kinds of countries. In-
terestingly, many of them have almost
the same Constitution we have, but
they have just not been able to figure
out how to live with it or to let the
balance of power or the power of people
work.
Again, the most important part is
that of the first three words—the most
important in understanding the form-
ing of a more perfect Union. It has not
yet been accomplished and maybe
never will be accomplished, but it al-
ways gives us a goal for things to be
better than they have been. In our
country, we have the opportunity to
live under the Constitution, which pro-
vides a unique set of liberties and free-
doms that others can only hope for.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
H.R. 2740
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, later
today, we are going to vote on whether
to invoke cloture on the motion to pro-
ceed to H.R. 2740, the House Labor,
Health and Human Services, Edu-
cation, Defense, State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Energy and Water Develop-
ment Appropriations Act. I must say I
have to strongly urge Senators to vote
no.
I am not urging a ‘‘no’’ vote because
the House bills are not good bills. The
underlying House bills are good bills. If
we were going to vote just to consider
these bills, that would be easy. I and
practically everybody in this Chamber
would vote yes, but that is not what we
are doing.
Senator MCCONNELL has made it very
clear that he will bring up H.R. 2740 not
to vote on the bills that have been
passed by the House of Representatives
but for the consideration of the Sen-
ate’s Defense appropriations bill, which
was a partisan bill that was reported
along party lines out of the Appropria-
tions Committee. He is going to offer
that as a substitute once we proceed to
the underlying bills.
On top of taking a totally partisan
bill as a substitute for legislation that
could have easily passed, as part of the
substitute, Leader MCCONNELL is going
to offer the Energy and Water Appro-
priations bill as well as the State, For-
eign Operations, and Labor-HHS and
Education bills. Now, those last two
bills have never been considered by the
committee. They have not been voted
on by the subcommittees, and they
have not been voted on by the full com-
mittee. They were pulled from the
committee markup last week because
the Republicans were afraid to vote on
amendments that would have received
the support of both Republicans and
Democrats.
Is that how we operate? Just because
things get complicated and difficult, do
we just skip parts of the legislative
process? Do we say, ‘‘Oh, my goodness
gracious, I am afraid to have to vote on
something either yes or no’’? That is
no way to proceed.
Not one Democrat on the Appropria-
tions Committee voted for the Defense
bill—not one—including me, and I have
voted for more money for the Depart-
ment of Defense than any Senator who
is serving in this body today.
The way the Defense bill was written,
it does nothing to prevent the Presi-
dent from stealing billions of dollars
more from our troops to pay for his
cynical campaign promise of building a
gigantic wall across our southern bor-
der. He will steal this money from our
troops and their families even though
he promised us that Mexico would pay
for it.
In fiscal year 2019 alone, the Presi-
dent has already raided $6.1 billion
from the Department of Defense’s ac-
counts for his border wall. He did that
without having congressional approval.
He first diverted $2.5 billion from the
fiscal year 2019 Defense Appropriations
Act for the wall by using standard
transfer authority. We provide this au-
thority to the Department of Defense
to ensure that the DOD has the flexi-
bility it requires to meet the needs of
the troops in an evolving threat envi-
ronment. It is not intended to be used
by the President as a piggy bank for a
campaign promise or for a pet project
that Congress has refused to support.
He took $3.6 billion more from mili-
tary construction projects for a south-
ern border wall. This was the wall he
gave his word that Mexico would pay
for. He, instead, is taking the money
from projects like military schools,
childcare centers, and improved train-
ing facilities that would improve the
lives of our troops and their families to
pay for his wall. We cannot let that
happen again.
I offered an amendment during com-
mittee markup of the Defense appro-
priations bill that would protect the
money we appropriated for our troops
by prohibiting the President from
using it to build a border wall, but that
amendment was defeated on a party-
line vote.
Now the Republican leader accuses
Democrats of not standing with the
troops by voting against this bill, but
it is exactly the opposite.
We are the ones saying we want funds
that should go to support the troops
and their families to go to them, and
we should not allow the President to
take the money from the troops and
their families for the wall.
Taking that money is tantamount to
telling military families: You may
serve loyally, but we care more about a
failed campaign promise—a wall in the
middle of the desert that the President
promised Mexico would pay for—than
we do about providing schools and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.023 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5560 September 18, 2019
daycare for their children or weapons
training or a fire station. I am not
going to sign up for that.
We have to stand up for the Constitu-
tion. The President has contorted the
law beyond all recognition by raiding
defense dollars for his wall. He has un-
done congressional funding decisions
by fiat. If we let that go unanswered,
we are surrendering Congress’s con-
stitutional power of the purse.
Last year, we were able to move ap-
propriations bills on the floor because
the leaders agreed that only bills that
had bipartisan support would move for-
ward. I commend my colleague, the
senior Senator from Alabama, Senator
SHELBY. We showed the right way to
proceed then and it is the right way to
proceed now. We passed those bills, but
the package of bills before us today
does not have such support.
I was hopeful that once we secured a
bipartisan budget agreement, we would
be on a bipartisan path to consider
Senate appropriations bills that reflect
the best of our country. Unfortunately,
the Republican leadership started out
the process on a partisan note by refus-
ing to rein in the ability of the Presi-
dent to take the defense dollars meant
to help our troops and using them to
build his wall and by shortchanging the
Labor-HHS-Education appropriations
so they could put $5 billion of it in the
Homeland Security bill for the Presi-
dent’s wall.
Now I wonder how many more of our
tax dollars we are going to spend on
this boondoggle. If you put it to a vote
to this country, they would say: No
more.
In the bipartisan budget agreement,
nondefense funding was given a $27 bil-
lion increase. That was roughly a 3-per-
cent increase. If all things were equal,
the Labor-HHS-Education appropria-
tions bill, which is our largest domes-
tic funding bill, should receive a 3-per-
cent funding increase in fiscal year
2020, but the Republican bill only gives
1 percent, while the Department of
Homeland Security receives a 7-percent
increase to pay for the wall. That is
not right.
The result is a bill put forward by the
Republicans today that fails to cover
even the annual cost of inflation in
public health and Head Start,
childcare, special education, education
for the disadvantaged, veterans’ train-
ing grants, and dozens of other pro-
grams.
So robbing from the funds that were
meant for education, childcare, and
healthcare programs that have a real
positive impact on the lives of all
American people to pay for President
Trump’s wall is just as unacceptable as
robbing from these funds from our
military. Members on our side of the
aisle are not going to support that.
Last year, the President shut down
much of the government for 35 days in
a tweet tantrum over his wall. This
strategy of border wall above all else,
border wall above any interests of this
country, has already failed once, and it
will fail again.
The majority leader has said there is
no education in the second kick of a
mule. I agree, but now we find our-
selves in this position again. We have
been down this road. It was the Presi-
dent’s failed strategy that led to the
longest government shutdown in the
history of our country just 9 months
ago and cost Americans billions of dol-
lars.
It was the President’s failed strategy
to hold the government of the Amer-
ican people hostage to pay for a wall
that he gave his word Mexico would
pay for.
There is a bipartisan path forward.
We have bipartisan bills that have gone
through the Appropriations Committee
with overwhelming support of Repub-
licans and Democrats. The majority
leader ought to just bring those bills
up while we sort out these other issues.
The Energy and Water Appropria-
tions bill was reported out of com-
mittee last week on a unanimous vote;
every Democrat, every Republican
voted for it. Tomorrow the Appropria-
tions Committee will consider the Ag-
riculture appropriations bill and the
Transportation, Housing and Urban De-
velopment appropriations bill.
I expect that most Democrats and
most Republicans will vote for them,
and we could bring these bills to the
floor. Instead, we are forced today to
vote cloture on a partisan defense ap-
propriations bill, a partisan state-for-
eign operations bill, and a partisan
labor-HHS-education bill, the last two
of which were never even considered in
committee.
The State-Foreign Operations bill
continues the President’s discrimina-
tory Mexico City policy, which pro-
hibits funding for private organizations
that support family planning and re-
productive health, and it caps funding
for family planning at an arbitrarily
and unacceptably low level. It elimi-
nates all funding for the U.N. popu-
lation fund. That is a fund that pro-
vides lifesaving assistance to women
and girls in Yemen and dozens of other
countries where USAID does not have
programs.
For the past 30 years, I have been ei-
ther chairman or ranking member for
the State, Foreign Operations Sub-
committee. That subcommittee has a
long record of producing bipartisan
bills. That was true when the majority
leader, Senator MCCONNELL, was chair-
man, when former Senator Judd Gregg
of New Hampshire was chairman, while
Senator GRAHAM has been chairman,
and during the years I was chairman.
We were ready to mark up that bill last
week, but because one Senator wanted
to offer an amendment related to fam-
ily planning—an amendment that had
both Republican and Democratic sup-
port of a majority of members of the
committee—the markup was canceled.
We were not allowed to vote on it.
Rather than vote, the majority can-
celed the markup. What kind of process
is this? What kind of democracy is
that? We are better than this. We are
the 100 Members of the U.S. Senate—
100 men and women—who represent 325
million Americans. That is an awesome
responsibility.
Senators should not be afraid to vote.
Senators should show courage, not hide
behind procedural actions so they
never have to take a position. That is
not why people come to the U.S. Sen-
ate. That is not what is expected of the
100 people here to represent this great
country.
So I would urge Members to vote no
on the cloture motion. It is nothing
more than a political stunt.
We have bipartisan bills with over-
whelming support of Republicans and
Democrats. Bring them up. Let’s not
waste time on show votes.
I will continue to work with my good
friend Chairman SHELBY and the ma-
jority and Democratic leader to find a
way forward, but let’s not have show
votes. Let’s have real votes. Let’s have
all 100 of us stand up and say what we
stand for.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I lis-
tened to some of the remarks of the
distinguished Senator from Vermont
and friend. I think we are both trying
to find a path forward to move our ap-
propriations bill, but we are not there
yet.
This afternoon, I urge my colleagues
to invoke cloture on the motion to pro-
ceed to H.R. 2740, the first package of
appropriations bills sent over by the
U.S. House of Representatives. This
package includes the Defense; Energy
and Water; Labor, HHS, and Education;
and State-Foreign Operations appro-
priations bills.
My Democratic colleagues have said
they are opposed to proceeding to this
package because we must pass domes-
tic spending bills before we pass the
Defense bill, but this package before us
right now does both. In fact, it ac-
counts for more than 40 percent of do-
mestic spending. As I said before, it
mirrors the package sent to us by
Speaker PELOSI and the Democratic-
controlled House. So this excuse, I be-
lieve, for delaying consideration of this
package doesn’t hold water this after-
noon. We need to move the process for-
ward.
I want to make a few points about
the Senate versions of these bills that
we will bring up if we invoke cloture
today.
Last week, the Appropriations Com-
mittee reported the Defense and En-
ergy and Water bills. The Energy and
Water bill, as Senator LEAHY has just
remarked, garnered unanimous sup-
port. My Democratic colleagues simi-
larly praised the bipartisan nature of
the Defense bill. Yet they voted
against it in the committee. They did
so because the bill, as I understand it,
from what they tell me, does not re-
strict the President’s ability to trans-
fer funds to secure our southern border.
The terms of the bipartisan budget
deal governed the fiscal year 2020 ap-
propriations process. That is why they
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.025 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5561
September 18, 2019
entered into this agreement. They were
agreed to by Republican and Demo-
cratic leaders, all the way up to the
President, the Speaker of the House,
the majority leader, the minority lead-
er, and so forth. Those terms expressly
prohibit restrictions on the President’s
ability to transfer funds. It is plain as
day.
Our Democratic colleagues may now
regret having agreed to those terms,
but that does not change the fact that
they did agree to them, and we want to
go by them.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to place this term sheet into the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
BIPARTISAN BUDGET AGREEMENT FOR FISCAL
YEARS 2020 AND 2021
1. The 2019 Bipartisan Budget Agreement
for fiscal years 2020 and 2021 (‘‘Agreement’’)
is agreed to by the bipartisan leadership of
Congress and the administration of Donald
J. Trump. The bipartisan Congressional lead-
ership and the administration agree to co-
operate in the Agreement’s implementation.
2. The Agreement modifies the discre-
tionary spending caps imposed by the Budget
Control Act (‘‘BCA’’) for fiscal years 2020 and
2021 pursuant to the table below. The spend-
ing cap adjustments are intended to reflect
the elimination of the BCA sequester for two
years, plus a slight increase in spending for
both defense and non-defense programs.
3. The parties agree to partially offset the
Agreement’s modifications to the discre-
tionary spending caps legislation by extend-
ing the BCA mandatory sequester and cus-
toms user fees to achieve a total offset level
of $77.4 billion as scored by the Congressional
Budget Office.
4. The debt limit will be suspended for two
years, through July 31, 2021. No additional
restrictions will be placed on the Secretary’s
extraordinary measures authorities. The
debt limit suspension, spending cap adjust-
ments, offsets, and any necessary procedural
matters, will be included as part of a single
piece of legislation.
5. Appropriations bills: Specific spending
decisions shall be left to the members of the
Appropriations Committees, with 302(b)s set
through the regular process of the commit-
tees. Congressional leaders and the adminis-
tration agree that, relative to the FY 2019
regular appropriations Acts, there will be no
poison pills, additional new riders, addi-
tional CHIMPS, or other changes in policy or
conventions that allow for higher spending
levels, or any non-appropriations measures
unless agreed to on a bipartisan basis by the
four leaders with the approval of the Presi-
dent. Current transfer funding levels and au-
thorities shall be maintained, and any modi-
fications must be agreed to on a bipartisan
basis by the four leaders with the approval of
the President. Any emergency spending lev-
els must be agreed to on a bipartisan basis
by the four leaders with the approval of the
President.
6. The agreement also establishes a new
cap adjustment for FY 2020 to help ensure
the necessary resources for the decennial
Census are provided.
7. Senate Leaders agree that if a bill has
been reported on a bipartisan basis from the
Senate Appropriations Committee and is
consistent with the BCA spending caps, and
has the support of the Chairman and the
Ranking Member, they will work together to
minimize procedural delays. The Majority
Leader will continue to consult with the
Democratic Leader to sequence bills in a bi-
partisan way, and acknowledges that bipar-
tisan concurrence is required to expedite the
consideration of any appropriations bill.
8. The President, Congressional leaders and
the leadership of the Appropriations Com-
mittees shall work together to reach bi-
cameral and bipartisan agreement on the or-
derly and timely consideration of FY 2020 ap-
propriations bills to avoid a government
shutdown, and a 12-bill omnibus. The Presi-
dent, Congressional leaders and the leader-
ship of the Appropriations Committees shall
also work together to reach bicameral and
bipartisan agreement on the orderly and
timely consideration of FY 2021 appropria-
tions bills to avoid a government shutdown,
and a 12-bill omnibus.
Mr. SHELBY. Lack of adherence to
the terms of the budget deal also ex-
plains why we are unable to mark up
the other two bills in this package:
Labor, HHS, and Education and State-
Foreign Operations.
Just like the Defense and Energy and
Water bills, these bills were crafted in
a bipartisan way. Yet some of my
Democratic colleagues threatened to
amend these bills with abortion-related
poison pills.
Poison pills, as we all know—just
like restrictions on transfer author-
ity—are expressly—expressly—prohib-
ited by the terms of the budget deal
that we all agreed to just a few weeks
ago. Again, both parties agreed to
those terms.
Regardless, I am interested in mov-
ing the appropriations process forward,
and I believe Senator LEAHY is too. I
am interested in doing so consistent
with the budget agreement we agreed
to.
That is why the chairman of the
Labor-HHS and Senate Foreign Oper-
ations Subcommittees, Senator BLUNT
and Senator GRAHAM, have released the
versions of these bills that the Appro-
priations Committee intended to con-
sider last week.
Both bills were crafted with bipar-
tisan input, and both are free of poison
pills. We are proud of the work that
went into those bills and want to be
transparent about how we intend to
proceed, but before we vote on cloture,
I want to remind my colleagues of our
shared success last year and our com-
mon interest in moving the process for-
ward this year.
In fiscal year 2019—last year—we
achieved more success in passing ap-
propriations bills than we had done in
20 years. The linchpin of that success
was an agreement between me and Sen-
ator LEAHY, the vice chairman of the
committee, to ban poison pills from ap-
propriation bills. Both sides upheld
that agreement right here on the floor,
and we funded 75 percent of the govern-
ment on time.
That is the framework the bipartisan
budget deal was modeled after so we
could replicate what we did last year.
The purpose of the budget agreement is
to replicate the success we had last
year, as I just said, to ensure that we
do not revert to the dysfunctional ap-
propriations process of years past.
That is why it is so important that we
adhere to it now. I think the American
people want us to do it and do it now.
It is all the more important consid-
ering what we are trying to fund with
this package. It contains critical in-
vestments, not just in health, edu-
cation and energy projects but in na-
tional security, our military.
I believe the situation unfolding in
Saudi Arabia should serve as a grave
reminder to all of us that we must set
aside partisan politics and do our job
to provide our military the resources it
needs to keep America safe. It should
also remind us that our main adver-
saries—China and Russia—never relent
in their efforts to destabilize us any-
where in the world. That is why we
must do our part to ensure that they
fail. We cannot do that without stable
funding for our military and for cer-
tainty for our soldiers.
Failure to prioritize funding for our
national defense would undermine the
Pentagon’s planning process, hinder
our commanders’ ability to counter
threats to America, and threaten the
safety of our Nation. That is unaccept-
able.
We have the opportunity today to
move forward together to bolster our
national security. We have a frame-
work for success that we have used last
year. Let’s use it now.
I hope my Democratic colleagues will
recommit to the terms of the budget
deal that they agreed to in spirit and
in fact. I hope they will set aside par-
tisan politics and do right by our mili-
tary, the numerous agencies that
would receive funding in this package,
and our constituents—the American
people—and let us get on with the busi-
ness of the people.
Again, this afternoon I urge my col-
leagues to vote yes on cloture.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to H.R. 2740, a bill making
appropriations for the Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Education,
and related agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other pur-
poses.
Mitch McConnell, Roger F. Wicker, John
Cornyn, Richard C. Shelby, John Bar-
rasso, Johnny Isakson, Richard Burr,
Thom Tillis, Mike Rounds, Jerry
Moran, Mike Crapo, James E. Risch,
John Boozman, Roy Blunt, John
Thune, David Perdue, John Hoeven.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the motion to
proceed to H.R. 2740, a bill making ap-
propriations for the Departments of
Labor, Health and Human Services,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.026 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5562 September 18, 2019
and Education, and related agencies for
the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS) and the
Senator from South Dakota (Mr.
ROUNDS).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR), and the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted——yeas
51, nays 44, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 292 Leg.]
YEAS—51
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—44
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—5
Booker
Klobuchar
Roberts
Rounds
Sanders
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 51, the nays are 44.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having not voted in the
affirmative, the motion is rejected.
The majority leader.
MOTION TO RECONSIDER THE VOTE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
enter a motion to reconsider the vote.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mo-
tion is entered.
The Senator from Tennessee.
CONSTITUTION DAY
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President,
one of the occasions that we celebrate
every year is Constitution Day, and
that actually took place yesterday. It
was so exciting to visit with students,
talk to constituents, and celebrate
Constitution Day and the fact that we
have this document.
Our Constitution is a disarmingly
short document to read. When you sit
down to read it, it doesn’t really take
a lot of time to digest it. When you are
done with it, you might easily walk
away thinking: That wasn’t that hard
after all. It is pretty simple, right? We
all know that is not necessarily the
case. It is easy to understand, but it is
so important that we look at it in its
entirety.
There is an entire body of law dedi-
cated to tearing apart that Constitu-
tion. It is mind-boggling when you
think about that. We have this docu-
ment. It puts this foundation in place,
and there is law that would rip it
apart. There are those who would rip it
apart, who are looking for answers to
problems our Founders never dreamed
of.
There has been a lot of talk lately
concerning the Founders and how their
backgrounds and status in society in-
formed the document that eventually
became what is known as the Constitu-
tion of the United States. But I think
it is even more important to think of
the Founders as human beings who
came to the Constitutional Convention
harboring ambitions and goals equal in
gravity to our present passions—their
desire to have a United States of Amer-
ica.
They wanted freedom from their op-
pressors on the other side of the world
and from a system of government that
would inevitably lead to oppression.
They said: No more. Let’s write this
into the fiber of this Nation—freedom;
freedom from our oppressors. They
wanted to reforge the chains that
broke during the Revolution into ties
that would bind the several States to-
gether under a common goal—bound
together, united in purpose and in free-
dom. After years of blood and uncer-
tainty, they desperately wanted con-
trol over their own lives and over their
futures, individual freedom—freedom
to choose.
Because they were human, yes, they
wanted power, and so they argued.
They argued about everything. They
argued about States’ rights. They ar-
gued about a nation having a debt.
They argued about the Confederacy
and compacts versus the Federalists’
vision of ‘‘a more perfect Union.’’ But
through all that, the Founders still
managed to create a document that set
forth a new standard of government—a
government of the people, by the peo-
ple, and for the people. It is a form of
governance that is responsible not to
the government but is responsible to
the people.
They gave us a framework, but there
are a great many things that they de-
clined to set in stone. They made a
conscious choice, which is why we con-
tinually find ourselves engaging in
philosophical combat. Unfortunately,
as part of that battle, many of my
friends on the other side of the aisle
have gone so far as to undermine the
very institutions that define this coun-
try.
Supreme Court confirmations have
turned into a circus. Policy debates de-
volve into personal attacks. Distin-
guishing between news and opinion is
all but impossible on many days of the
week. Many of my friends on the other
side of the aisle like to describe the
Constitution as a living document, but
I don’t really follow that line of think-
ing. Describing our Constitution as a
living document is really just a prelude
to changing the rules to fit the cir-
cumstances, and, in my opinion, that is
a dangerous concept.
As our Founders signed on the dotted
line, the rest of the world looked to-
ward America’s shores with skep-
ticism, and, at times, derision. They
didn’t understand how a government
by the people and for the people could
possibly fit into the existing mold.
After over 200 years of progress, there
are still those who remain skeptical of
the country that broke the mold and
transformed from a struggling cluster
of Colonies into a shining city on a
hill.
I urge all of my colleagues to respect
the Constitution. It is not an intellec-
tual straitjacket. Not once has the sum
of its contents acted as a barrier to
progress. The Constitution is not the
source of the freedoms it guarantees,
but it does state definitively that its
execution secured the blessings of lib-
erty to those who bore witness to
America’s beginnings and to those who
would come after. It is a legacy worth
fighting for. Happy Constitution Day.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
ALEXANDER). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask that the Chair lay before the Sen-
ate the message to accompany S. 1790.
The Presiding Officer laid before the
Senate the following message from the
House of Representatives:
Resolved, That the House insist upon its
amendment to the bill (S. 1790), entitled ‘‘An
Act to authorize appropriations for fiscal
year 2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military construc-
tion, and for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military per-
sonnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes,’’ and ask for a conference
with the Senate on the disagreeing votes of
the two Houses thereon.
COMPOUND MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move that the Senate disagree to the
House amendment, agree to the request
of the House for conference, and au-
thorize the Chair to appoint conferees
on the part of the Senate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.030 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5563
September 18, 2019
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. I send a cloture
motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to disagree in the House amendment,
agree to the request from the House for a
conference, and authorize the Chair to ap-
point conferees in relation to S. 1790, a bill
to authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the Depart-
ment of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the Department
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other
purposes.
James M. Inhofe, Shelley Moore Capito,
Thom Tillis, John Boozman, Cindy
Hyde-Smith, Jerry Moran, John Cor-
nyn, Mike Crapo, Johnny Isakson, Joni
Ernst, James E. Risch, Roger F.
Wicker, David Perdue, John Thune,
Mike Rounds, Kevin Cramer, Mitch
McConnell.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
call be waived and that the cloture
vote occur at a time to be determined
by the two leaders.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TRIBUTE TO LAMAR ALEXANDER
Mr. MCCONNELL. Now, Mr. Presi-
dent, this week our friend and col-
league, the senior Senator from Ten-
nessee, will mark a major milestone in
his State’s history.
As of tomorrow, LAMAR ALEXANDER
will have served as Tennessee’s Gov-
ernor or U.S. Senator for 24 years, 8
months, and 15 days—more combined
years and offices than any other Ten-
nessean.
Of course, Senator ALEXANDER also
remains the only Tennessee Governor
ever popularly elected to the Senate.
He is the only Tennessee Republican to
be undefeated in six statewide primary
elections. And his 2008 general election
vote total of 1,579,477 votes is still the
largest ever recorded by a Tennessee
statewide candidate.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that a statement from the Ten-
nessee secretary of state, Tre Hargett,
who has calculated each of these polit-
ical accomplishments, be printed in the
RECORD following my remarks.
As impressive as these statistics are,
all of LAMAR ALEXANDER’s colleagues
know that political record-setting is
not what makes him tick. Here is
something he likes to say about serv-
ing in the Senate:
It’s hard to get here. It’s hard to stay here.
So while you’re here, you might as well try
to accomplish something.
Well, he certainly lived out his own
advice. During Senator ALEXANDER’s
very first term, he got 70 Senators to
support his bipartisan America COM-
PETES Act to help our country stay
competitive with the rest of the world.
He even persuaded the Democratic and
Republican leaders to join forces as the
principal sponsors. When it was en-
acted in 2007, everyone knew who the
chief engineer had been.
Senator Dan Inouye said at the time:
I wish to commend my colleague, Senator
Alexander, for his broad and very intricate
history of bipartisanship. If all of us in this
body follow this process in all major legisla-
tion, this would be a historic session. . . . I
thank the Senator from Tennessee very
much.
That was Senator Dan Inouye from
Hawaii.
Then in 2012, after being elected
three times by his peers as chairman of
the Republican conference, LAMAR did
something that is not often done
around here: He gave up that power and
his future ambitions for elected Senate
leadership in order to ‘‘spend more
time working to achieve results on the
issues I care the most about.’’
Since then, not coincidentally, there
have been a steady stream of impor-
tant new laws dealing with those very
issues. Time after time, Lamar has
taken the lead, often as the principal
sponsor or chief engineer. He has
worked behind the scenes. He has col-
laborated across the aisle to get things
done. He hasn’t often stepped into the
spotlight himself, but he has almost al-
ways been the key driving force.
As chairman of the Senate HELP
Committee, he worked with Senator
PATTY MURRAY to fix No Child Left Be-
hind. President Obama called it ‘‘a
Christmas miracle,’’ and the Wall
Street Journal said it was the greatest
devolution of power to States in a
quarter-century. The Nation’s Gov-
ernors and the National Education As-
sociation recognized Lamar with
awards. We are dealing with a rare pub-
lic servant who can literally win plau-
dits from the Wall Street Journal edi-
torial board and the Nation’s largest
teachers union at the same time.
In 2013, Senator ALEXANDER was one
of a group of Senators who revamped
Federal student loans with a new mar-
ket-based interest rate to save hun-
dreds of millions of dollars for students
attending college.
In 2016, he and Senator MURRAY spon-
sored the 21st Century Cures Act. It is
landmark legislation that I was proud
to be involved with and view as the
most significant law of that entire
Congress.
In 2018, again with Senator MURRAY,
he offered the landmark Opioid Crisis
Response Act. President Trump called
it ‘‘the single largest bill to combat a
drug crisis in the history of our coun-
try.’’
Last year, working with Senator
Hatch, he was the chief engineer of
once-in-a-generation legislation to en-
sure America’s songwriters are paid
fair-market value for their work.
For the last 5 years, as chairman of
the Energy and Water Development
Appropriations Subcommittee, he has
worked with Ranking Member FEIN-
STEIN to deliver record funding for our
National Laboratories, funding to keep
America No. 1 in supercomputing, and
6 years of full funding for inland water-
way infrastructure.
This is quite a distinguished record,
and this is far from all of it.
I have heard that Senator ALEX-
ANDER explains to Tennesseans that
they can think of Congress like a split-
screen television show. On one side are
the dramatic public fights, the partisan
showdowns, but on the other side, he
explains, you see huge bipartisan ma-
jorities working diligently on issues
that directly affect the daily lives of
millions of Americans. Well, that side
of the screen is where you will find
Senator ALEXANDER. In fact, he is a
star player.
Senator ALEXANDER has announced
he won’t seek a fourth term in 2020.
While the end of his time here may be
in sight, I am confident the catalog of
his hard work and leadership is no-
where near complete just yet. As chair-
man of HELP, he and Senator MURRAY
have reported the Lower Healthcare
Costs Act to the full Senate. They are
working together to reauthorize and
update the Higher Education Act. He
and Senator FEINSTEIN have produced
an appropriations bill—passed by the
Appropriations Committee—that would
provide a fifth year of record funding
for the National Laboratories, a sixth
year of full funding for our inland wa-
terway infrastructure, and the re-
sources to keep America No. 1 in super-
computing. And there is almost cer-
tainly more to come over the next year
and a half. Lamar’s service reminds us
that there are many ways to be a
transformational leader in this body.
As a young man, I was an intern for
Senator John Sherman Cooper of Ken-
tucky. He was never an elected leader
but was always regarded by his col-
leagues as a leader because of his will-
ingness to do what he thought ought to
be done. Senator Cooper once said to
me:
I not only represent Kentucky, I represent
the Nation, and there are times you follow,
and times when you lead.
In fact, two of the three Senate office
buildings are named for Senators who
were never elected the leader of their
party’s caucus. LAMAR ALEXANDER is
just that kind of leader.
We are proud to celebrate this mile-
stone as Senator ALEXANDER notches
more combined years as Senator and
Governor than anyone else from his
State, but even more, we recognize the
example the Senator has set for all the
rest of us. It is just like he says:
It’s hard to get here. It’s hard to stay here.
So while you’re here, you might as well try
to accomplish something.
Congratulations, my friend.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
SEPTEMBER 17, 2019.
Hon. LAMAR ALEXANDER,
U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR ALEXANDER: I am writing to
congratulate you on your record years of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.033 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5564 September 18, 2019
service to Tennessee. On September 19, 2019,
you will have served more combined years as
either Governor or United States Senator
from Tennessee than any other Tennessean.
This is a milestone that illustrates your
dedication to public service and to Ten-
nesseans.
September 19, 2019, marks your 9,024th day
in office as either Tennessee Governor or
U.S. Senator from Tennessee. Your 24 years,
8 months, and 15 days of service will then
surpass the previous longest serving Gov-
ernor and United State Senator from Ten-
nessee, Isham Harris.
This is just one of your many elections
records in the state. You are the only Ten-
nessee Governor ever popularly elected to
the United States Senate. You have won
more Tennessee Republican statewide pri-
mary elections—six—than any other Ten-
nessean. And your 2008 general election vote
total—1,579,477 votes—is the largest vote
total ever recorded by a Tennessee statewide
candidate.
I congratulate you on this, and your many
other, great accomplishments and I thank
you for your service to our great state.
Sincerely,
TRE HARGETT,
Secretary of State.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, it
is such an honor to be here following
Leader MCCONNELL and talk about the
achievements of our State’s senior Sen-
ator and recognize his wonderful work,
not only in DC but also in Tennessee. I
want to touch on just a few of those
highlights and the importance to our
State.
For me, being a State senator in-
volved in our community, coming to
serve in Congress, and now serving in
the Senate with our senior Senator is
something that is a wonderful experi-
ence.
The majority leader just mentioned
that our senior Senator will retire at
the end of next year. Of course, we are
all going to miss seeing him around
Capitol Hill. Senator ALEXANDER has
really distinguished himself as a man
who is committed to Tennessee tradi-
tion and to helping Tennessee find
prominence on the global stage.
Anyone who has ever entered Senator
ALEXANDER’s office knows that he is a
music lover. What they may not know
is that he is also both a classically
trained pianist and a pretty good gos-
pel and country pianist. He has even
performed on the stage of the Grand
Ole Opry, and rumor has it that he
really rocked the house the night he
was there. His love of music and of
Tennessee’s musicians has caused him
to work tirelessly in these efforts.
In the House, I started a songwriters’
caucus. He did likewise in the Senate,
bringing the issues that confront our
Nation’s performers into the Senate,
finding solutions, and, as the leader
mentioned, passing and being instru-
mental in the crafting—not just the
passing—of the Music Modernization
Act. He was honored just this week by
the Nashville Songwriters Association
International, which gave him the
White Hat Award. This is an honor that
he and I share.
It is important to note that the
White Hat Award has only been given
15 times in the 52 years of that organi-
zation’s history.
As Governor—then Governor, now
Senator ALEXANDER opened the doors
to automobile industries, including
Saturn, GM, Nissan, and auto parts
producers, which solidified Tennessee’s
place in the global economy. As Sen-
ator, he has focused on improving Ten-
nessee from the inside out, giving pri-
ority to practical concerns. He led the
charge on healthcare, education, and,
as the leader mentioned, the opioid cri-
sis. He has supported teachers, stood up
for working moms, and enacted tax
policies that kept more money in the
wallets of Tennesseans.
Today, I rise to honor a leader, a
friend, and, I have to say, the team
captain for our annual Crockett Cup
baseball game. And they were the win-
ners. They are the holders of the
Crockett Cup.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. UDALL. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
S. 1790
Mr. UDALL. Madam President, I rise
to urge this body to protect the Con-
stitution, to defend the separation of
powers, and to prevent an unauthor-
ized, unconstitutional war with Iran.
The Constitution is clear. Under our
article I powers, the Constitution
spells out that Congress shall have the
authority to declare war.
The Founders debated which branch
of government should be given the sol-
emn power to wage war. Entering into
battle had been the personal preroga-
tive of Kings, and Kings had shown
that they would bankrupt their coun-
tries and risk lives because of self-serv-
ing, power-seeking feuds.
Therefore, our Constitution’s Found-
ers placed the decision to go to war
with the people’s representatives. They
wanted any decision to wage war to re-
flect the will of the people. They delib-
erately rejected giving this most con-
sequential decision only to the Presi-
dent.
Yet, despite the clarity of the Con-
stitution, President Trump insists—
without any equivocation—that he
does not need congressional approval
to engage in military hostilities
against Iran, and now, instead of work-
ing with the U.S. Congress, he is pub-
licly deferring to the royal family of
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Our
President said we are waiting for Saudi
Arabia to say ‘‘under what terms we
would proceed.’’
When discussing retaliation for the
attack on a Saudi oil-processing facil-
ity, our President has praised the
Saudis as good customers who ‘‘[pay]
cash.’’
President Trump explained further as
follows:
[T]he fact is that the Saudis are going to
have a lot of involvement in this if we decide
to do something. They’ll be very much in-
volved, and that includes payment. And they
understand that fully.
Does this Congress think the patri-
otic men and women of our military
are mercenaries at the service of the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia? I reject that
idea completely. When a President is
threatening a military attack because
of a foreign King’s oil interests, it is
well past time for Congress to assert
its institutional authority.
Congress needs to make it clear: The
President cannot begin a war with Iran
without coming here first, coming here
to the Congress.
In June, we voted on a bipartisan
amendment to the National Defense
Authorization Act that prohibited any
war with Iran unless authorized by
Congress.
Getting a vote on the Udall-Kaine-
Paul amendment was historic, and a bi-
partisan majority of Senators voted to
support our amendment that day.
The House of Representatives has
sent us its NDAA, which includes a bi-
partisan provision prohibiting war
against Iran without congressional ap-
proval. The NDAA is now going to a
Senate-House conference committee.
The conference committee must adopt
our amendment that prohibits unau-
thorized war against Iran.
Since our vote in June, tensions with
Iran have not subsided; they have only
increased. The threat of miscalculation
and unauthorized war has only gotten
more serious. This week, the President,
on Twitter, is threatening that the
U.S. military is ‘‘locked and loaded’’ on
behalf of the Saudi Kingdom.
Iran’s behavior in the region is high-
ly problematic, but Saudi Arabia’s oil
interests do not determine whether the
United States goes to war. Congress de-
termines that, Congress and Congress
only, based on our national interests.
Rather than threats of war, the right
move is active diplomacy to lower ten-
sions in the region.
We are at this point in the Middle
East because of the Trump administra-
tion’s failed policies. Its unilateral
withdrawal from the Iran nuclear
agreement, its maximum pressure pol-
icy, its abandonment of diplomacy—
these policies are only causing more
chaos in the region and doing nothing
to advance U.S. interests.
When the President unilaterally
withdrew from the Iran agreement in
May 2018, against the advice of his
military and intelligence Chiefs, he
promised he would get us a better deal.
The deal we had in place secured for
the United States and the world an
Iran that would not develop nuclear
weapons. It was a deal that had strict
verification requirements and a deal
his advisers and outside independent
groups said Iran was complying with.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE6.007 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5565
September 18, 2019
It has now been 16 months since the
President tore up that deal and said he
could get us a better one. Well, the
President’s supposed deal-making
prowess has only produced increased
tensions, bringing us to the brink of
war.
In June, we were 10 minutes away
from an attack that likely would have
cost Iranian lives. Even after that
aborted strike, the President threat-
ened Iran with ‘‘obliteration like
you’ve never seen before.’’ Now we are
‘‘locked and loaded.’’
While it is a positive development
that John Bolton is no longer whis-
pering in the President’s ear—urging
regime change in Iran—this mercurial
President could get us into a war be-
fore we know it, but these are my own
views about the President’s foreign pol-
icy. I understand others in this body do
not share them, including others who
voted to support this amendment pre-
viously.
I want to underscore that this is not
about what you think of the President.
This is about defending the separation
of powers as outlined in the Constitu-
tion, and this is about standing up for
the will of the American people. The
American people do not want another
endless war in the Middle East.
While our military is the most capa-
ble on Earth, no conflict with Iran
would be easy. Iran has twice the popu-
lation of Iraq and is four times the size.
Even so-called targeted strikes could
escalate into a much wider war.
Make no mistake, our amendment re-
tains the President’s authority to de-
fend against any attack upon us. While
the chief complaint from opponents of
the amendment was that it tied the
President’s hands from attack, this is a
false argument. The amendment ex-
pressly reserves the President’s powers
to defend the Nation. The Department
of Defense’s rules of engagement re-
main in place. The President’s full au-
thority as Commander in Chief to repel
an attack and defend the Nation re-
mains intact.
If there are still concerns, we can
continue to consult experts and refine
language in conference. That is part of
the regular order, but the Defense bill
must prohibit an unauthorized war
with Iran.
For too long, Congress has abdicated
its constitutional duty to decide mat-
ters of war and peace. We have hidden
from the hard votes. We have allowed
the Executive to fill the vacuum.
We in this body need to step up to
the plate and assume our constitu-
tional responsibilities. This is not
about partisan politics. This is not
about tying the hands of the President
in defense of our country. This vote is
not even about whether you think we
should or should not go to war against
Iran. Even if you think military action
on behalf of the downed drone or Saudi
oil is justified, the place to debate and
make that decision is on this floor in
this Congress. It is not the decision of
one man in the White House.
I am making this call to our con-
ferees: Affirm the Constitution. Affirm
our sworn responsibility to uphold the
Constitution. Affirm that our men and
women in uniform will not be sent off
to risk their lives in war unless the
people’s representatives make that
somber decision.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF MILITARY FORCE
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, Mem-
bers of the U.S. Senate and House of
Representatives face many votes on
many subjects. Most of them you vote
on and forget very quickly. There are
some you will never forget. At least
two votes that I cast here 18 years ago
are on that list in terms of my Senate
service.
It was 18 years ago, and just shortly
after the 9/11 attack in 2001, in which
3,000 innocent Americans lost their
lives. President George W. Bush came
to Congress and asked for authority
under our Constitution to wage a war—
in fact, to wage two wars. He wanted
authority from the U.S. Senate and
Congress to invade Iraq and to invade
Afghanistan. There was a long debate
leading up to it about why it would be
necessary for us to start a war with
those two nations.
In the case of Iraq, the argument was
made that Saddam Hussein, their lead-
er, had weapons of mass destruction
that were dangerous to the region and,
ultimately, dangerous to the United
States. He was a tyrant and everyone
knew it, but those threats were the
ones that led many people to conclude
that the invasion of Iraq was nec-
essary. I disagreed. We cast that vote
on the floor of the U.S. Senate, and 23
of us voted no—1 Republican and 22
Democrats.
It turned out, after we invaded Iraq
and took a close look, there were no
weapons of mass destruction. The real
basis for the war did not exist.
Eighteen years later, having lost al-
most 5,000 American lives and spent
trillions of dollars, we are still in Iraq.
I don’t know how this will ever end or
when our troops will finally be able to
come home. Hussein is gone, for sure,
but the situation in that country is
certainly not dramatically better than
it was when we invaded it. We couldn’t
guarantee tomorrow what is going to
happen there, whether it will be stable
or friendly to the United States after
all we have invested in, all we have lost
in that invasion.
At the same time, we were debating a
war in Afghanistan. To me, it was a
different proposition. The administra-
tion said: We know the terrorists re-
sponsible for 9/11 are in Afghanistan.
What is our message to those who turn
around and attack the United States
and kill so many innocent people?
So I saw Afghanistan different than
Iraq, and I voted for the military effort
that was undertaken to go after the
terrorist organization responsible for 9/
11, the al-Qaida organization.
It took us years to find Osama bin
Laden, who was responsible for master-
minding that deadly day in our his-
tory, and to finally bring him to jus-
tice. The fact is, 18 years later, we are
still in Afghanistan today. It is hard to
explain. Thousands of American lives
have been lost there. Millions, billions,
maybe even trillions of dollars have
been spent. And most people agree, the
day after we leave, whenever it is, the
country will revert to what it was be-
fore we walked in. There have been 18
years of sacrifice, 18 years of suffering,
and even death, for America’s patriotic
soldiers. It is a reminder about these
wars that seem like such a good idea,
so necessary, the right way to respond,
and here we sit with two of the longest
wars in the history of the United
States.
Now the question is, Are we pre-
paring for another war? I hate to say
those words, but I have to be honest.
What this President has done in our re-
lationship with Iran has brought us to
the moment where we have to ask that
question: Is the President preparing to
ask us to go to war against Iran?
The first thing he did—one of the
first things—was to disparage the Iran
nuclear agreement, an agreement en-
tered into under President Obama to
stop the development of nuclear weap-
ons in Iran. I thought it was a good
agreement. I supported it and still do.
I am not making any excuses for Iran.
They are engaged in conduct around
the world that is inspiring terrorism
and threatening our allies and friends.
I am making no excuses for that. But
to make certain that Iran did not have
nuclear weapons in the future was the
right thing to do.
We entered into this agreement
under President Obama. China, Russia,
European nations, and others joined us,
and we sent international inspectors
into that country. They reported back
to us regularly that there was no evi-
dence of the development of nuclear
weapons, and every door was open to
them. We had surveillance on the
ground in a country that has been
largely secretive and isolated. I
thought that was the right thing to do,
and I still do. President Trump dis-
agreed, and the United States withdrew
from the Iran nuclear agreement.
Since then, there has been an esca-
lation of tension between our two na-
tions, between Iran and the United
States. Some of it is, clearly, a reac-
tion by the Iranians to sanctions that
we have imposed, which have caused
great problems with Iran and their oil
supply. They have answered in kind by
threatening oil tankers from other
countries. It is the kind of escalation
you would expect two countries that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.039 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5566 September 18, 2019
are leading up to a confrontation to en-
gage in. Now the questions are, Will
we, in fact, go to war, and if we are pre-
pared to, will this President—Donald
Trump—follow the Constitution of the
United States?
The votes I talked about 18 years ago
gave the people of the United States,
through their elected representatives,
a decision-making part of the process.
Their Members of Congress voted. The
question is whether President Trump
will follow his constitutional responsi-
bility in coming to Congress for the au-
thority to engage in a war in Iran.
I certainly don’t believe the vote I
took 18 years ago, before many of the
Members of the Senate were even here,
has authorized him or any President to
invade Iran. That was never even con-
sidered when we were in that debate.
Now the question is, Will he come
forward and give the American people a
voice in this process in deciding wheth-
er we are going to war?
I, for one, look at this with great
skepticism and even negativity. A war
is so much easier to get into than it is
to get out of. We have proven that over
and over again. Politicians who make
the speeches and rationalize these wars
are usually not the ones who face com-
bat and death on the battlefield. That
is turned over to our young women and
men in uniform who bravely fight for
the causes we identify as politicians.
I would sincerely hope what Senator
UDALL has brought to the floor, to open
a conversation and discussion, is really
taken to heart by the American people
and, more importantly, by the White
House. As Senator UDALL has reminded
us, any President—this President—
needs the constitutional authority to
bring this Nation into a war. Without
that authority, he cannot and should
not move forward.
They point to the recent attacks on
Saudi Arabia and their oilfields. Of
course, they were terrible. Whether
they came from Houthi rebels in
Yemen or whether they came from Iran
itself, it is terrible, but the fact is, the
United States has not signed an agree-
ment saying we are prepared to defend
Saudi Arabia, whoever attacks them.
We want to have a good alliance with
them—it is difficult with the current
leadership—but we haven’t entered
into a mutual defense pact by any
means. When Saudi Arabia is attacked,
we are not required to muster our
American troops in their defense. We
should take care and be thoughtful and
not escalate this situation.
Senator UDALL’s amendment regard-
ing Iran is a straightforward and time-
ly reaffirmation of what is already in
article I, section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion—only the U.S. Congress can de-
clare war. I am pleased to join him and
others in this legislative effort to reaf-
firm that without the consent of Con-
gress, no war with Iran is authorized. I
hope the Defense authorization con-
ferees will keep this in mind.
This Congress has rubberstamped too
many of the President’s worst in-
stincts. We must not do so again and
march into another war in the Middle
East. Two wars still going, still costing
American lives, even to this day, are
way too many. A third war at this
point is unthinkable.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I am
on the floor to talk about a problem
that is far too common here in Wash-
ington; that is, Federal Government
shutdowns. They don’t make any sense.
If we don’t do something in 12 days,
Congress, once again, will face an un-
necessary and costly government shut-
down. We have to avoid that.
I have been through five different
government shutdowns since my time
working in the George H. W. Bush
White House back in 1990, and three
shutdowns just over the last 5 years.
None of them worked.
I don’t know anyone who likes them
now because we found out that when
you shut down the government, tax-
payers actually pay more, not less. It
might seem like if you shut down the
government, that is good for taxpayers,
but it is actually bad for taxpayers.
They foot the bill for the backpay of
Federal workers for the days they
weren’t allowed to go to work, and
they pay for other things, too, that
they wouldn’t have to pay for if Con-
gress did its job, got its spending bills
done, and didn’t shut down the govern-
ment. Delayed projects, late payment
fees, lost productivity, deferred main-
tenance—it all adds up. Shutdowns also
disrupt government services, of course.
By the way, it is not just the poor
government programs and services at
the time—that continues. So even now,
9 months since the last government
shutdown, you have the Agencies and
Departments saying: Well, we would
like to be able to process your tax re-
turn or we would like to be able to, as
I found out last week, process your
501(c)(3)—which is a charity return to
give you a nonprofit status, you can
get contributions that are deductible—
but because of the shutdown, we are
still backed up. They are delayed and
late. That hurts everybody.
Federal contractors, of course, are
hurt. A lot of those are our constitu-
ents, private sector individuals. Fed-
eral employees, themselves, of course,
get hurt, especially those who are con-
sidered essential. They have to go to
work even though they are not getting
paid. A lot of people, whether it is TSA
personnel at the airports or our Border
Patrol down at the border, are doing
their best to protect us. Yet they are
told they can’t get paid, so they can’t
make their car payment, their mort-
gage payment, or their rent. It puts
them in a tough situation. Again, it
also hurts taxpayers and families and
communities all across the country.
No shutdown was more frustrating
for me than the one we had most re-
cently. It was the longest shutdown
ever. It was 35 days this past winter, in
December. During that month, we all
heard firsthand from our constituents
how they were affected by the shut-
down. I heard from NASA engineers in
Cleveland, OH, as an example. We have
the NASA Glenn Research Center
there.
I also heard from TSA employees
every time I flew. I asked them: How
are you doing? They would tell me, and
it was tough—missed paychecks,
mounting mortgage payments that I
talked about. In some cases, medical
bills were piling up. Morale was down.
Families were hurting. Again, even
after the government opened and back-
pay was sent to the furloughed work-
ers, a lot of that damage had already
been done.
What we have learned is, it wasn’t
just Federal workers and their families
who felt the effects of the shutdown.
The economy as a whole suffered too.
The Congressional Budget Office has
done some estimates of this. After the
shutdown, they estimated it had re-
duced economic growth by a combined
$11 billion for the fourth quarter of 2018
and the first quarter of 2019. Not only
that, but CBO—the Congressional
Budget Office, a nonpartisan group
that looks at these issues—later pro-
jected that the rate of economic
growth would have been 0.4 percent
higher in the first quarter of 2019 than
it was if not for the government shut-
down. That sounds like a small num-
ber, 0.4 percent, but that is a big deal.
That means economic growth in the
first quarter of this year would have
been 3.5 percent, not 3.1 percent. That
is a big deal. That is billions of dollars
in lost growth, not just because people
weren’t working who should have been
working but because there was lost
productivity in our economy and bil-
lions of dollars in lost growth just be-
cause we couldn’t figure out how to
keep the lights on here in Washington,
DC.
All of this is indicative not just of
the loss of purchasing power for Fed-
eral employees but also a serious ripple
effect to Federal contractors, small
businesses, and others who serve the
Federal Government.
Shutdowns have another effect. Each
time our government fails to fund
itself, the public’s faith in our institu-
tions, including, of course, in this
body, the Senate, the House, the Presi-
dency, falls even further, not just here
but around the world. It just seems
crazy that the Federal Government
can’t stay open. People can’t get that,
and I understand why they don’t get it.
Now, with the threat of another gov-
ernment shutdown looming just a few
weeks away, let’s not repeat the mis-
takes of the past. The reason our Per-
manent Subcommittee on Investiga-
tions looked at this issue over the past
9 months was to learn the lessons and
to get the actual numbers to determine
what the real impact was of the shut-
down.
This week, the Permanent Sub-
committee, of which I chair, released a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.040 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5567
September 18, 2019
bipartisan report signed by me and the
ranking member, TOM CARPER, the re-
sult of which is what we are reporting
today. We learned that the total cost of
the three government shutdowns that
have occurred in the last 5 years alone
have combined for a total of 54 days of
partial or full government closure.
During those three periods of shut-
down, the pricetag to the American
taxpayer was $4 billion. So the three
government shutdowns that have hap-
pened in the last 5 years, taxpayers had
to eat $4 billion—three shutdowns, $4
billion.
We also learned that a lot of that
number comes from the loss of produc-
tivity. Furloughed Federal workers
who were prohibited from going to
work during that shutdown were owed
$3.7 billion in backpay, which they got
even though they weren’t working be-
cause they couldn’t work.
Compounding that was at least another
$338 million in other costs, including
extra administrative costs, lost rev-
enue, late fees on interest payments,
and other costs.
On top of everything else, the work-
ers who weren’t able to come in to
work represented a combined lost pro-
ductivity of about 57,000 years of lost
productivity. Think about that—al-
most 57,000 years of productivity loss.
Again, this is from folks who are Fed-
eral employees who weren’t allowed to
work because the government was shut
down but who later got paid.
These figures, the $4 billion in costs
to the taxpayers and the 56,938 years in
lost productivity, are relatively low
numbers. It is actually higher than
that. Do you know why? It is because
although we got figures from 26 dif-
ferent Agencies and Departments—and
over the 9 months we did this research,
we sent this questionnaire around to
all the Agencies and Departments—a
bunch of them, comprising less than
half but close to half of the workforce,
refused to respond to us. Why? Because
they said they didn’t know how many
of their workers were furloughed. They
didn’t know how many of their workers
were essential employees. They didn’t
know what the lost productivity was.
That is equally disturbing. That in-
cluded the Department of Defense, the
Department of Agriculture, the Depart-
ment of Justice, the Commerce Depart-
ment, and the EPA. They wouldn’t give
us complete information about em-
ployee furloughs and backpay because
they said they just didn’t have the in-
formation. The cost is even higher than
indicated here. We don’t know how
much higher, but we know it is at least
this high.
We are sending letters to the Agen-
cies that were unable to provide the
complete financial information related
to employee furloughs and backpay to
find out why and to ask them how they
plan to address those issues going for-
ward. Over the 9 months we did this re-
search, our Permanent Subcommittee
on Investigations is not done with its
work because, in the process, we uncov-
ered another problem, which is Agen-
cies not even knowing the basic infor-
mation about their workforce and what
happens during the shutdown.
Our report also documents examples
of how the shutdown negatively af-
fected the Federal Government’s abil-
ity to conduct important operations on
a wide range of issues. I encourage peo-
ple to take a look at the report.
While we shut down the government
over fighting about border security—
remember, that was the issue at the
time, whether we are going to have a
wall or not and what kind of funds
were going to go to border security—
the Department of Homeland Security
had to delay important facility main-
tenance, which had a serious impact on
law enforcement officer operations and
safety, including at the border. The
lack of these critical maintenance and
repair services actually made it more
risky, even endangered the lives of
some law enforcement officers, and
made it harder to defend the border.
The shutdown certainly didn’t work in
that regard.
Meanwhile, the Department of Jus-
tice was forced to cancel about 60,000
immigration hearings for nondetained
aliens who were scheduled during the
35 days of the shutdown. During the 35
days, you couldn’t have immigration
hearings. There were 60,000 immigra-
tion hearings canceled. We already had
a big backlog in these hearings, as
some of you have heard about, to the
point that often it takes a couple of
years to have your case heard by an
immigration judge. Now it is even
worse. Again, we still haven’t resolved
that issue. That is a problem that is
compounded so that today you have so
many of these hearings that are still
outstanding.
A lot of my constituents back in
Ohio were affected too. Let me give
you an example. We have a poor neigh-
borhood in Cleveland, OH. A guy want-
ed to start a deli there, which was a
great idea. It is kind of a food desert
there. This deli was ready to go, ready
to be put into operation, but they
couldn’t get the approval by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture to use the
machines to accept the SNAP bene-
fits—the food stamp benefits—so they
had a really hard time launching. They
couldn’t make much money because a
lot of people in the area were SNAP re-
cipients. The USDA couldn’t certify
the machines to have it work because
of the shutdown. That one was really
frustrating for me.
At the Piketon, OH, uranium enrich-
ment plant, a lot of employees were un-
sure if their healthcare premiums
would be paid, despite potentially
being exposed to levels of radiation
that could be dangerous to them.
At a vineyard in Lorain, OH—Lorain
County is a place where there is more
wine being grown. It is exciting—this
vineyard submitted six label approval
requests to the Alcohol and Tobacco
and Tax and Trade Bureau. The Alco-
hol and Tobacco and Tax and Trade Bu-
reau has to approve these labels. The
owners of the vineyard were left in
limbo throughout the entire shutdown
as they waited for approval. They lost
sales because in that business, it is all
about the new thing. You want to have
your new label out there, your new
product out there. That was frustrating
to me too. These are small business
owners—again, entrepreneurs who are
taking a chance, trying something ex-
citing that has been a growth to busi-
ness in our State, but they couldn’t get
approval.
The National Transportation Safety
Board stopped an investigation of a
plane crash in Wayne County, OH, that
took the lives of two individuals in
January because of the government
shutdown.
It doesn’t just affect the border or
TSA or others I have talked about; it
affects a lot of our constituents.
Ohioans applying for Customs and
Border Protection Trusted Traveler
Programs had their applications sus-
pended during the shutdown and then
faced long delays in getting their appli-
cations approved once the government
reopened because of the backlog.
Home loans across the State were un-
able to get processed because of the
backlogs at the IRS, where employees
were still working overtime and week-
ends to catch up on work as caseloads
doubled. Even last week, I talked about
this nonprofit that couldn’t get its
501(c)(3) status because of the backlog,
the IRS said, even though it happened
9 months ago.
There are only a few examples here I
have been able to give you. Again, I
would encourage you to look at the re-
port. Go onto our website for the Per-
manent Subcommittee on Investiga-
tions and take a look at it. There are
so many issues and vulnerabilities that
happen in all of our States. It is clear
we need to find a way to prevent this
from happening again.
Part of the problem we face here is
that this constant threat of shutdowns
has become kind of the norm. People
are already talking about it—12 days
from now. Are we going to shut down
or not? It has kind of a chilling effect
on our economy just to talk about it.
For the past two decades, the govern-
ment has routinely operated on tem-
porary funding because we don’t get
our spending bills done. Congress is
supposed to pass 12 appropriations
bills, which comprise all the Agencies
and Departments. Last year, we did a
pretty good job of getting close to the
12. You have to go back to 1997 to find
a year when we completed all 12 of the
spending bills.
If we don’t complete a spending bill
and have it signed off by the House and
the Senate and signed into law by the
President, we do these temporary
spending bills. They are called con-
tinuing resolutions. You just kind of
continue the spending from the pre-
vious year. They are always short
term.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.042 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5568 September 18, 2019
So there is discussion right now of, in
12 days, having a continuing resolu-
tion. That is a lot better than a shut-
down. It is not what we should be
doing, because at the end of that CR,
we will have another impasse, likely,
and that is when you get another
threat of a shutdown. It is much better
to pass the actual appropriations bills.
Since 1997, we have had a total of 117
continuing resolutions to fund the gov-
ernment. It used to be very rare. Now
it is not just common; it is the norm.
So moving forward, I hope one thing we
can all agree on is that we should do
the appropriations process, do the indi-
vidual bills, and have the debate. We
are going to have differences, and that
is fine. At the end of the day, we have
a vote on the floor.
Today, we tried to go to the so-called
minibus, a group of four different ap-
propriations bills. It shouldn’t be that
hard. We should be able to get these
things done. I hope we can agree that
no matter what, we should not have
government shutdowns.
One recommendation our report
makes—again, this is a bipartisan re-
port coming out of our subcommittee—
our report says that the Congress
should enact an automatic continuing
resolution to permanently prevent the
Federal Government from shutting
down, so forever not to have shutdowns
by just saying: If you don’t get your
spending bills done, you will simply
have a continuing resolution that is
automatic.
During the shutdown in January, I
once again introduced our legislation
called the End Government Shutdowns
Act. It is legislation that now has 33
cosponsors here in the Senate. That is
about a third of the Senate. It is legis-
lation that has mostly Republicans—
almost two-thirds are Republicans. In
the past, it has been bipartisan. This
year, it has not been. I hope it will be-
come that. I have introduced this legis-
lation every Congress since 2010.
My hope is that we will never have to
publish this kind of a report again that
talks about how many days we had a
shutdown, what the cost was to tax-
payers—$4 billion in this case—over the
last 5 years alone, and the 57,000 hours
of lost work productivity. We shouldn’t
have to have these kinds of reports be-
cause we shouldn’t have shutdowns. We
do need to put legislation on the floor
and have a vote on it to be able to stop
it.
Our legislation is pretty simple. It
says that you continue the spending
from the previous year if you can’t
come to an agreement, and then after
120 days, you reduce the spending by 1
percent across the board. Why? To give
the Appropriations Committees—the
people who write these spending bills—
the incentive to get to work, because
none of them, Republican or Democrat,
like across-the-board 1 percent spend-
ing cuts. They want to make their de-
cision as to where the funding goes,
and they don’t want the funding to be
reduced. Then, every 90 days, it reduces
it another 1 percent. Again, it is to
give them the incentive to get their
work done.
There is other legislation out there,
one of which passed the HSGAC Com-
mittee—the Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs Committee—
about a month and a half ago. It had
some other elements to it—that during
a shutdown, we would be restrained
from doing certain things on the floor.
The government couldn’t travel, in-
cluding the executive branch. I think
some of those bells and whistles that
were put on it are not great policy, but
I think it is so important that we end
government shutdowns, we have to fig-
ure out a way to come together as Re-
publicans and Democrats to get this
done.
I think we are at the point now
where, if Democrats won’t support the
1-percent cut, which is what they are
saying despite supporting it pre-
viously—some of them—and the House
sets a bipartisan bill, then let’s look at
just an auto CR, just automatically
avoiding the shutdown and continuing
the spending from the previous year.
The point is, we need to figure out a
way to keep the lights on and not have
these shutdowns. We need to stop miss-
ing our deadlines. We need to stop put-
ting our taxpayers in a bad situation
where you do a shutdown at enormous
cost to them. We need to put our Fed-
eral employees in a better position,
where they are not being furloughed
and they are not being told: You have
to go to work, or we are not going to
pay you. That is not fair either.
So let’s pass legislation to provide
for a continuation of government
spending, and let’s do all we can to try
to get our spending bills done to avoid
getting in that situation. I hope my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle
will not allow us to fall back into this
12 days from now, and I hope instead
we will redouble our efforts to pass
spending bills on time into the future
and immediately look at legislation
that says: Let’s end government shut-
downs forever to avoid this problem
going forward.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I also ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise this
evening to talk about healthcare. I will
not have long remarks, but I do want
to highlight a report that was just
issued last week. The report I am hold-
ing is from the Census Bureau. The re-
port is entitled ‘‘Health Insurance Cov-
erage in the United States: 2018,’’ by
the U.S. Census Bureau, dated Sep-
tember of 2019.
On page 2, this fairly lengthy report,
which goes on for about 29 or 30 pages,
has the general comparison in
healthcare coverage of uninsured num-
bers—those without insurance in 2017
versus 2018. This is what it says on
page 2 of the report under ‘‘High-
lights’’:
In 2018, 8.5 percent of people, or 27.5 mil-
lion, did not have health insurance at any
point during the year. The uninsured rate
and number of uninsured increased from 2017
(7.9 percent or 25.6 million).
And then it refers to a figure and a
table.
Basically, what is outlined is a drop
in the number of Americans covered.
Looking at it another way, there was
an increase in the number of uninsured
from 25.6 million Americans to 27.5 mil-
lion Americans—a difference of 1.9 mil-
lion. Just for general reference, I will
round that off to say that roughly 2
million people who had insurance in
2017 were uninsured in 2018. That is
deeply troubling because the number of
uninsured is up, not just generally
from 2017 to 2018 but more broadly. It is
a change in the trend lines where we
have been for most of the last decade.
I think it is pretty clear that the
Trump administration’s sabotage of
health insurance is, indeed, working. It
is reversing coverage gains that were
made under the Affordable Care Act in
the years after enactment and imple-
mentation of the Affordable Care Act.
We are told, as well, that the number
of uninsured children is up, so more
children were without insurance from
2017 to 2018.
Here is what one observer, whose
name is Phil Galewitz, from the Kaiser
Health News said: ‘‘For the first time
in a decade, the number of Americans
without health insurance has risen—by
about 2 million people in 2018—accord-
ing to the annual U.S. Census Bureau
report released Tuesday.’’
That was Tuesday of last week. He
goes on to cite the numbers that I just
cited.
Here is another comment from Katie
Keith from Health Affairs:
Coverage losses are expected to continue in
2019. This is due to a number of factors, in-
cluding repeal of the individual mandate
penalty, the expanded availability of non-
ACA plans, and the final ‘‘public charge’’
rule.
She goes on from there.
These are people who spend their
lives on the issue of healthcare.
A third commentator, Joan Alker,
from Georgetown University Center for
Children and Families said: ‘‘As a re-
sult, 4.3 million kids were uninsured in
2018—a statistically significant in-
crease of 425,000.’’
Another commentator who follows
healthcare, Matt Broaddus, from the
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities
said:
[T]oday’s Census data provide the clearest
evidence yet that Trump Administration ef-
forts to weaken health coverage under the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.044 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5569
September 18, 2019
ACA are taking a toll. They include can-
celing most federal outreach efforts for the
open enrollment period for 2018 marketplace
coverage, supporting new state policies that
make it harder for people to enroll or stay
enrolled in Medicaid, issuing rules to expand
short-term and association health plans . . .
and creating public confusion about the
ACA’s future by refusing to defend its con-
stitutionality in a lawsuit by Republican
state officials.
Then I turn to the last reference by
groups that follow this information. I
will just hold up this chart. This is a
chart by the Center on Budget and Pol-
icy Priorities. This chart depicts where
we have been over the decade and
where we could be at the end of the
decade on healthcare. This is a ref-
erence to the uninsured rate for non-
elderly Americans. That number was
over 17 percent in 2009. So 17.2 percent
of Americans were uninsured at that
time. The chart says it then fell each
year, especially after the Affordable
Care Act’s major coverage provisions
took effect in 2014. You see it starting
in 2009, and then you see the big drop.
Of course, that big drop of uninsured is
good news. When that chart depicts the
number going down, that is obviously
good news.
Then you see the Trump administra-
tion sabotage has begun eroding this
progress. You see it flattening out.
Now, instead of a continual diminution
or decline in the uninsured number,
you see kind of a flattening out of that.
Then you factor in the census report,
which documents at least for 1 year an
increase in the number of uninsured.
Then the last part of the chart says: ‘‘If
the administration gets the courts to
strike down the ACA, the uninsured
rate would almost double.’’
It goes all the way up to 18.7 in 2019.
Of course, the last part of the chart is
a projection. The Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities is asserting that if a
lawsuit is successful in the Fifth Cir-
cuit Court of Appeals, which we know
was successful at the district court
level and is now on appeal—if they are
successful, this think tank, the Center
on Budget and Policy Priorities, says
that in 2019, the number of uninsured
could go up to 18.7 percent, surpassing
where we were in 2009, when we started
to pass and then implement the Afford-
able Care Act, reducing substantially
the number of people who were unin-
sured.
If you look at it this way, roughly
over 6 years, the uninsured number
went from about 47 million Americans
down to about 27 million Americans.
Twenty million-plus people gained in-
surance coverage in about 6 years—not
even a decade.
The concern I have is that efforts un-
dertaken by the administration, unfor-
tunately, are seen as successful, ac-
cording to the Census Bureau numbers,
because the number of uninsured is
going up at a time we want the number
to go down. When you add in the law-
suit, which, in my judgment, is more
likely to succeed than not—I don’t
want it to succeed; I want it to fail be-
cause I think it is an insult to declare
the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act unconstitutional, therefore
destroying protections for more than
100 million Americans and ripping
away coverage from so many Ameri-
cans that the number of uninsured
would skyrocket. Why would we ever
go back to the days when the number
of uninsured was that high and poten-
tially growing? Why would we ever
take any step—whether there is a law-
suit or whether it is sabotage or what-
ever—to drive up the number of unin-
sured?
Let me conclude with a couple of
headlines. The front page of the New
York Times, dated September 11, 2019
reads: ‘‘Fewer Insured After Attacks
On Health Act.’’ If you go to the inside
of the paper, on page A15 there is a
longer headline that says: ‘‘Fewer Are
Insured Amid Administration’s At-
tacks On Health Act.’’
The Wall Street Journal—a news-
paper, when I last checked, that was
not necessarily supportive of the Af-
fordable Care Act, editorially—dated
September 11, page 83, reads: ‘‘Insured
Rate Logs First Drop in a Decade.’’
That means the number of uninsured is
getting larger.
I would say in conclusion that we
need to sound the alarm about the
threat to healthcare, sound the alarm
about the threat to a growing number
of uninsured Americans. This is not
even factoring in the lawsuit, which, as
the chart depicts, would make the un-
insured number skyrocket. It wouldn’t
go up by 1.9 million or a percentage
point or two; it would go up exponen-
tially higher.
I hope that Members of this body in
both parties not only would be con-
cerned about these trends and con-
cerned about what would could happen
if the lawsuit were successful but also
would take action to prevent this dark
result from playing out for the Amer-
ican people because the number of un-
insured would explode instead of con-
tinuing to go down where Americans
want it to go. We want the number of
uninsured to go down. We certainly
want the number of uninsured children
to go down.
I yield the floor.
Mr. BROWN. Thank you, Senator
CASEY, for speaking out on such an im-
portant issue.
He and I talked yesterday about the
number of people who now have insur-
ance in our States. In his State it is
over a million; in my State it is over
900,000 because of the Affordable Care
Act, because of Medicaid expansion, be-
cause of other things.
Seniors have more. Seniors are get-
ting more preventive care, and the cost
of drugs is less in spite of the fact that
this institution and the President do
nothing to keep the prices of drugs
down. We know the White House looks
like a retreat for drug company execu-
tives, so this body has not done nearly
what it should.
The Affordable Care Act is so impor-
tant. I appreciate Senator CASEY al-
ways standing up for kids and standing
up for Medicaid and standing up for the
Affordable Care Act and the impact it
has made on our States.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT—S. 1790
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, for
the information of Senators, the clo-
ture vote on the compound motion to
go to conference on S. 1790 will occur
at this time. I ask unanimous consent
that if the compound motion is agreed
to, it be in order for the following mo-
tions to instruct, which are at the
desk—Van Hollen, Cotton, Jones,
Schatz, Peters, McSally, McConnell or
designee—to be considered at a time to
be determined by the majority leader
in consultation with the Democratic
leader, but prior to September 26, in
the form of Senate resolutions taken
up and considered on the same day
with no amendments in order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to disagree in the House amendment,
agree to the request from the House for a
conference and authorize the Chair to ap-
point conferees in relation to S. 1790, a bill
to authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the Depart-
ment of Defense, for military construction,
and for defense activities of the Department
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel
strengths for such fiscal year, and for other
purposes.
James M. Inhofe, Shelley Moore Capito,
Thom Tillis, John Boozman, Cindy
Hyde-Smith, Jerry Moran, John Cor-
nyn, Mike Crapo, Johnny Isakson, Joni
Ernst, James E. Risch, Roger F.
Wicker, David Perdue, John Thune,
Mike Rounds, Kevin Cramer, Mitch
McConnell.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the compound
motion to go to conference and appoint
conferees on S. 1790, an original bill to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.046 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5570 September 18, 2019
fiscal year, and for other purposes,
shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS) and the
Senator from South Dakota (Mr.
ROUNDS).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR), and the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 87,
nays 7, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 293 Leg.]
YEAS—87
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Romney
Rosen
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—7
Gillibrand
Harris
Markey
Merkley
Paul
Warren
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Bennet
Booker
Klobuchar
Roberts
Rounds
Sanders
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 87, the nays are 7.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having voted in the af-
firmative, the motion is agreed to.
The Senator from Oklahoma.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I
know of no further debate on the mo-
tion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
The motion was agreed to.
f
APPOINTMENT OF CONFEREES
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Chair appoints the following as con-
ferees on the part of the Senate:
The Presiding Officer appointed Mr.
INHOFE, Mr. WICKER, Mrs. FISCHER,
Mr. COTTON, Mr. ROUNDS, Ms.
ERNST, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. SULLIVAN,
Mr. PERDUE, Mr. CRAMER, Ms.
MCSALLY, Mr. SCOTT of Florida, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. HAWLEY, Mr.
REED, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. KAINE, Mr. KING, Mr.
HEINRICH, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. MANCHIN, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, and Mr. JONES.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 417.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Brian McGuire,
of New York, to be a Deputy Under
Secretary of the Treasury.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Brian McGuire, of New York, to be
a Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury.
Mitch McConnell, Tom Cotton, Roger F.
Wicker, Rob Portman, John Thune,
Kevin Cramer, John Barrasso, James E.
Risch, Richard Burr, James M. Inhofe,
Lindsey Graham, Rick Scott, John
Boozman, Mike Crapo, Tim Scott, John
Hoeven, Deb Fischer.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session and be in
a period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for 10
minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CONFIRMATION OF JOHN RAKOLTA
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
wish to express my reservations about
the nomination of John Rakolta, Jr.,
to be Ambassador to the United Arab
Emirates. Historically, the United
States has sent career foreign service
officers to serve as ambassadors to the
United Arab Emirates, men and women
well-versed in the complexities and
challenges facing the region. Mr.
Rakolta would be the first political
nominee to serve as Ambassador to
this critical post. The U.S. mission in
the United Arab Emirates has bene-
fitted from experienced, trained dip-
lomats who can adroitly navigate our
important security partnership while
also addressing some of our major pol-
icy disagreements, particularly regard-
ing involvement in conflicts through-
out the Middle East.
In nominating Mr. Rakolta, this ad-
ministration is putting a political
nominee with no diplomatic experience
at the helm of one of our most critical
Middle East posts. While Mr. Rakolta
possesses extensive business experi-
ence, he lacks knowledge of the arms
sales process, security commitments,
and complex diplomacy that we should
demand of our emissaries to the United
Arab Emirates. This is a risky venture
that could jeopardize our effectiveness
in the region. It also is part of a con-
cerning trend that has reduced the
number of career ambassadors serving
abroad. The historically even split be-
tween political and career nominees is
becoming further skewed toward polit-
ical ambassadors.
Mr. Rakolta’s nomination is also in-
dicative of the lack of due diligence
and forthrightness demonstrated by a
number of this administration’s nomi-
nees. It took months for the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee to obtain
an accurate and complete picture of
the extent of Mr. Rakolta’s business
holdings, litigation history, and the
role he played at a questionable non-
profit, ostensibly related to economic
development.
Mr. Rakolta initially failed to in-
clude key details in the paperwork he
submitted to the committee. He did
not disclose dozens of companies that
he had owned or managed, including
many with an international presence,
and omitted dozens of foreign lawsuits,
among other details. More concerning,
however, he did not disclose that he
had served on the board of a nonprofit
that had been the subject of intense
public scrutiny, including questions
about payments the board approved for
its executive director. These issues and
omissions not only slowed down Mr.
Rakolta’s nomination, but raised con-
cerns about Mr. Rakolta’s candor and
forthrightness with the committee.
The committee relies on nominees to
be transparent and forthcoming about
relevant information to ensure that
there are not actual or potential con-
flicts of interest or issues that call into
question a nominee’s fitness for public
service. When these details are ob-
scured, omitted, or hard to obtain, it
further erodes the confidence that a
nominee is well-qualified and com-
mitted to serve in a given position. Mr.
Rakolta’s failure to provide accurate
details to the committee did not in-
spire confidence about his diligence or
transparency. Further, the details that
the committee did obtain raise con-
cerns about the type of leadership that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.050 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5571
September 18, 2019
he would bring to a critical U.S. em-
bassy. Therefore, I opposed his nomina-
tion.
f
EMERY COUNTY PUBLIC LAND
MANAGEMENT ACT
Mr. ROMNEY. Mr. President, I rise
today regarding the Emery County
Public Land Management Act, that
was included in S. 47, the John D. Din-
gell, Jr. Conservation, Management,
and Recreation Act. This became Pub-
lic Law 116–9 on March 12th, 2019.
Throughout 2018 and early 2019, Sen-
ator Hatch, Congressman CURTIS, and I
engaged with the Emery County Com-
missioners and Emery County Public
Lands Council on this important piece
of legislation. After Senator Hatch’s
retirement, I was honored to help carry
the ball across the finish line.
This law is the result of over 25 years
of deliberation, and I find it important
to highlight some areas of congres-
sional intent to maintain the integrity
of the process. While congressional in-
tent should be evident in the legisla-
tive text and corresponding map, the
historical context of how we arrived at
some of these decisions may be of ben-
efit to the Department of the Interior,
future members of the Utah delegation,
and those in Utah. The residents of
Emery County, the Utah delegation,
and I look forward to the implementa-
tion of this new law.
Fundamental to this process was the
effort to avoid any action that would
end a current ongoing use. For exam-
ple, it was important to not close a
road, trail, airstrip, or prohibit other
existing use in the legislative text or
corresponding map with a wilderness
designation. Further, to avoid applying
more restrictive designations, such as
wilderness, to areas it would limit on-
going activity, such as grazing or
recreation. Designation boundaries
were drawn along geographic and phys-
ical features or just outside cherry-
stemmed roads to ensure management
made sense for the area.
Any designation boundary that does
not follow this approach, particularly
any designation that puts at risk an
existing use due to a poorly drawn
boundary, was a clerical error and
should be resolved under the authority
clearly provided in Sec. 1221. Given the
scale of this bill and legislative map,
this authority is a vital tool to resolve
such errors.
I would also highlight the clear in-
tent within Sec. 1232, section (e), which
clearly states that non-wilderness ac-
tivities or uses that can be seen or
heard from areas within wilderness are
to be left uninterrupted by this legisla-
tion. The clear intention of the bill was
to avoid any type of a buffer zone man-
agement plan.
On the topic of roads, stakeholders
worked closely with BLM to ensure all
roads in the 2008 Resource Management
Plan were ‘‘cherry-stemmed,’’ meaning
they were not included in a wilderness
designation. Our intent was to main-
tain these roads and for those des-
ignated as ‘‘open’’ to stay open. These
cherry-stems are of various sizes and
were intended to ensure an adequate
corridor exists to facilitate necessary
maintenance. In the Recreation Area,
Sec. 1222 includes language to ensure
the necessary maintenance to existing
routes may continue and allow rerout-
ing of roads or trails to protect the re-
sources of the Recreation Area.
The driving force for this com-
promise bill was the desire for county-
wide land use certainty and thus pre-
venting the designation of a national
monument under the authority granted
to the President under the Antiquities
Act. As so many know, in my home
State of Utah national monument des-
ignations under the Antiquities Act
have been the source of extreme con-
troversy and deep division in our com-
munities. In my own view, land man-
agement is most effective when it is
driven by local voices and well-rea-
soned planning. Sweeping designations
via Presidential proclamation are often
politically motivated, lead to poor
management of the lands they intend
to protect, and erode trust between the
Federal Government and local resi-
dents. With the passage of the Emery
County legislation, the need for a na-
tional monument is obsolete because a
clear plan has been laid out for the
long-term management of the San
Rafael Swell. To be clear, this is a view
that was shared by the many parties,
including locally elected officials, con-
servationists, recreationists, and oth-
ers that were intimately involved in
the forging of this compromise legisla-
tion. Any advocacy of a future national
monument designation under the An-
tiquities Act or other large-scale land
use designation in Emery County
would be a violation of the good-faith
agreement that was shared among
those that negotiated during this bill’s
process.
I believe this bill is a victory for all
stakeholders, and I look forward to
watching this quarter-century journey
for Emery County finally come to fru-
ition.
f
NATIONAL POW/MIA RECOGNITION
DAY
Mr. CRAPO. Mr. President, I call at-
tention to National POW/MIA Recogni-
tion Day through Senate statements,
such as this, each year to try to help
keep national focus on the return of
American servicemembers and help
their families to know that our coun-
try stands with them as work con-
tinues to find the answers they more
than deserve.
As we observe this National POW/
MIA Day on September 20, 2019, a spe-
cial tribute must be paid to the fami-
lies and friends of missing
servicemembers. Too often, their quiet,
ceaseless, and enormous service to our
Nation is overlooked. Many have car-
ried on through years and even decades
of sorrow and uncertainty. Their ques-
tions must be replaced with answers.
Their loss must be softened, if possible,
by resolution.
Those working hard through chal-
lenging conditions to get needed an-
swers and bring all American
servicemembers home also deserve ap-
preciation and steady encouragement.
Thank you to those who work for and
assist the Defense POW/MIA Account-
ing Agency and related efforts. So far
this month, the agency has reported
accounting for more than 20 missing
servicemembers, many of whom were
lost in the attack on Pearl Harbor and
the Korean war. Piecing together the
circumstances, whereabouts and lives
of those lost cannot be easy, but bring-
ing them home is critical to honoring
their service. To help with this effort,
I have continually fought for the Bring
Our Heroes Home Act that is meant to
address obstacles preventing families
and caseworkers from accessing the
records needed for recovery efforts by
putting one entity in charge of
prioritizing and facilitating the declas-
sification of records related to missing
servicemembers.
Thank you to the members of the
POW*MIA Awareness Rally Corp. of
Pocatello, ID, and other similar groups
that hold rallies and other events to
keep a spotlight on the immense serv-
ice of our Nation’s veterans and the
need for an ongoing focus on bringing
them all home. Bringing all of the
82,000 Americans the Defense POW/MIA
Accounting Agency reports remain
missing home will certainly not fill the
losses felt in far too many American
families, but those who have served our
Nation deserve no less than to rest at
home, and we cannot rest until they
do.
f
200TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
FOUNDING OF THE CONGDON
STREET BAPTIST CHURCH
Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I
join with my colleague Senator White-
house, the city of Providence, and the
State of Rhode Island in celebrating
the 200th anniversary of the founding
of the Congdon Street Baptist Church,
Rhode Island’s oldest Black congrega-
tion. For generations, it has been a
spiritual home for the community and
an unwavering beacon for religious and
civil liberties in Rhode Island.
The church’s founding members left
the First Baptist Church, where they
were forced to attend segregated serv-
ices, and established their own house of
worship in 1819. Initially named the Af-
rican Union Meeting House, the church
aimed to provide a place of worship and
schooling for Black Americans. This
mission positioned the congregation as
a focal point of the African-American
community and paved the way for its
continuing advocacy for meaningful so-
cial change.
As one of the earliest African-Amer-
ican churches in the State and the first
schoolhouse for African-American chil-
dren in Providence, the African Union
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE6.010 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5572 September 18, 2019
Meeting House opened its doors to a
variety of different denominations. Be-
yond these religious and educational
roles, the church offered a meeting
place for African Americans to discuss
civil rights and other vital issues and
hosted literary clubs, youth groups,
and numerous other social organiza-
tions.
Unfortunately, the original church
structure, which was renamed the
Meeting Street Baptist Church in 1840,
was torn down in the 1860s without the
congregation’s approval amid tensions
with its White neighbors. However, the
congregation persevered, and a new
structure was built on a nearby plot of
land in 1875.
The new church was renamed the
Congdon Street Baptist Church and to
this day continues to be a pillar of sup-
port and advocacy for Rhode Island’s
African-American community. Its
congregants supported Black Brown
University students during their 1968
walkout protesting the university’s
lack of recruitment of and support for
students of color. In a testament to
Congdon Street Baptist Church’s im-
portance to Black Rhode Islanders, the
students chose to march from the uni-
versity to the church and remained
there until their demands for change
were met. During the mid–20th cen-
tury, congregants also pressured the
State to investigate and end discrimi-
nation in employment and marched
with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. More
recently, the church has, among its nu-
merous activities, increased its out-
reach to college students, embarked on
mission trips to help disadvantaged
communities around the world, and tu-
tored local children in reading, math,
and writing.
Today, after 200 years of worship and
public service, Congdon Street Baptist
Church continues to uplift our State
while adhering to its vision of being a
‘‘radically authentic community.’’ I
join community members in Provi-
dence and Rhode Islanders across the
State in congratulating Pastor Justin
R. Lester and the entire Congdon
Street Baptist Church congregation on
this significant milestone.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President,
today I wish to celebrate a milestone
for Rhode Island’s oldest Black church.
In August, the Congdon Street Baptist
Church on the East Side of Providence
celebrated its bicentennial. From its
inception at the nearby African Union
meetinghouse and schoolhouse in 1819,
Congdon Street Baptist Church has
been a centerpiece of spiritual and
community life for generations of Afri-
can Americans in Providence.
The Congdon Street Baptist Church
has weathered racial injustices to
flourish as a place for worship and edu-
cation. Its founding members left the
First Baptist Church in America,
where they were made to worship in a
segregated space. They formed their
own congregation in Providence so
that people of color could worship in
dignity and secure a fitting education
for their children.
Fulfilling that mission did not come
without adversity. The original church
was demolished in the 1860s at the be-
hest of White neighbors. Unbowed, the
congregation rebuilt. The new church,
completed in 1875, is listed on the Na-
tional Register of Historic Places. In
the 1960s, the church served as a sanc-
tuary for Rhode Islanders involved in
the civil rights movement. Today, edu-
cation and empowerment remain hall-
marks of the church community.
Rhode Island was founded on the
principles of religious freedom and tol-
erance. I am proud to have Congdon
Street Baptist Church as a cornerstone
of that tradition, and I wish the con-
gregation centuries of peaceful worship
to come.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
REMEMBERING WALTER TURNBOW
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today
I wish to honor the life of Walter
Turnbow, who passed away on Sep-
tember 9 at the age of 95. Walter was a
longtime leader in northwest Arkansas
and truly represented what it meant to
put the needs of others above one’s
own.
Walter Turnbow served on the
Springdale Industrial Commission,
Springdale Public Facilities board,
Beaver Water District board, and the
Springdale Water and Sewer Commis-
sion. In addition to these positions, he
also served on the Springdale School
Board, Northwest Arkansas Commu-
nity Care Foundation, and the Arkan-
sas State Board of Education.
He dedicated his life to public service
and the education system in Spring-
dale. While serving on the water and
sewer commission, he oversaw the con-
struction of what was, at that time,
the State’s largest water tank. This
proved to be a forward-thinking deci-
sion since the city’s continued growth
would require greater infrastructure
investment. Because of Walter’s leader-
ship, Springdale was prepared for the
changes and completed the project
without having to borrow money.
Walter saw education as the gateway
to a better future for his community.
In 2006, the Springdale School District
honored his contributions to the com-
munity and the school board by nam-
ing an elementary school after him. He
often visited the school to meet with
students and read to them. In addition
to the elementary school, other sites
and meeting spaces in the Springdale
community have also been named in
his honor, a testament to his very real
impact and incredible legacy.
As one of Springdale’s most well-
known public servants, he touched the
lives of everyone in the community.
From overseeing economic develop-
ment to ensuring a quality education
for everyone, Walter Turnbow left a
mark on the community of Springdale
that no one will soon forget. I extend
my condolences to his loved ones and
the entire Springdale community and
pray that future leaders will follow his
remarkable example.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 11:10 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bills, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate
H.R. 806. An act to require compliant flame
mitigation devices to be used on portable
fuel containers for flammable liquid fuels,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 1618. An act to encourage States to re-
quire the installation of residential carbon
monoxide detectors in homes, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 2134. An act to reauthorize the Helen
Keller National Center for Youths and
Adults Who Are Deaf-Blind.
H.R. 2211. An act to require the Consumer
Product Safety Commission to promulgate a
consumer product safety rule for free-stand-
ing clothing storage units to protect chil-
dren from tip-over related death or injury,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 2486. An act to reauthorize mandatory
funding programs for historically Black col-
leges and universities and other minority-
serving institutions.
The message also announced that the
House has passed the following bills,
without amendment:
S. 163. An act to prevent catastrophic fail-
ure or shutdown of remote diesel power en-
gines due to emission control devices, and
for other purposes.
S. 1689. An act to permit States to transfer
certain funds from the clean water revolving
fund of a State to the drinking water revolv-
ing fund of the State in certain cir-
cumstances, and for other purposes.
The message further announced that
pursuant to section 4003(e) of the 21st
Century Cures Act (Public Law 114–
255}, and the order of the House of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Speaker appoints the
following individual on the part of the
House of Representatives to the Health
Information Technology Advisory
Committee to fill the existing vacancy
thereon: Dr. Jim Jirjis of Nashville,
Tennessee.
The message also announced that the
House insists upon its amendment to
the bill (S. 1790) to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military
activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and
for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military
personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes, and asks
a conference with the Senate on the
disagreeing votes of the two Houses
thereon, and that the following Mem-
bers be the managers of the conference
on the part of the House:
From the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices, for consideration of the Senate
bill and the House amendment, and
modifications committed to con-
ference: Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, Messrs. LANGEVIN,
LARSEN of Washington, COOPER, COURT-
NEY, GARAMENDI, Ms. SPEIER, Messrs.
NORCROSS, GALLEGO, MOULTON,
CARBAJAL, BROWN of Maryland,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE6.009 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5573
September 18, 2019
KHANNA, KEATING, VELA, KIM, Ms.
KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma, Messrs.
CISNEROS, THORNBERRY, WILSON of
South Carolina, TURNER, ROGERS of
Alabama, CONAWAY, LAMBORN, WITT-
MAN, Mrs. HARTZLER, Ms. STEFANIK,
Messrs. KELLY of Mississippi, BACON,
BANKS, and Ms. CHENEY.
From the Permanent Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence, for consider-
ation of matters within the jurisdic-
tion of that committee under clause 11
of rule X: Mr. SCHIFF, Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama, and Mr. NUNES.
From the Committee on the Budget,
for consideration of sections 4 and 10608
of the Senate bill, and sections 1006 and
1112 of the House amendment, and
modifications committed to con-
ference: Messrs. YARMUTH, PETERS, and
JOHNSON of Ohio.
From the Committee on Education
and Labor, for consideration of sec-
tions 571, 572, and 5501 of the Senate
bill, and sections 211, 576, 580, 1099N,
1117, 3120, and 3503 of the House amend-
ment, and modifications committed to
conference: Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mrs.
TRAHAN, and Ms. FOXX of North Caro-
lina.
From the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, for consideration of sec-
tions 214, 315, 318, 703, 3112, 3113, 3201–03,
5318, 6001, 6006, 6021, 6701, 6711, 6721–24,
6741, 6742, 6751–54, 8101, 8202, 10421, 10422,
and 10742 of the Senate bill, and sec-
tions 315, 330F, 330H, 3300, 606, 737, 3111,
3112, 3127, 3128, 3201, and 3202 of the
House amendment, and modifications
committed to conference: Messrs. PAL-
LONE, TONKA, and UPTON.
From the Committee on Financial
Services, for consideration of sections
6017, 6018, 6804, 6811, 6813–16, 6834, 6835,
and title LXIX of the Senate bill, and
sections 550K, 560G, subtitle I of title
X, sections 12408, 1292, 1704, 1711, 1713–
16, 1733, and 2843 of the House amend-
ment, and modifications committed to
conference: Ms. WATERS, Messrs. SHER-
MAN, and BARR.
From the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs, for consideration of sections 834,
1011, 1043,1202, 1203, 1205, 1206, 1211, 1212,
1215, 1221–24, 1231–36, 1238, 1252, 1281–84,
title XIII, sections 1671, 1681, 2822, 6203–
06, 6210, 6213, 6215, 6231, 6236, title LXVI
II, sections 6921, 6922, 6931, 6941, 6943,
6954, part I of subtitle B of title
LXXXV, sections 8562, and 10701 of the
Senate bill, and sections 634, 1036, 1046,
1050, 1099X, 1201, 1202, 1204, 1207, 1210,
1213, 1215, 1218, 1221–25, 1229, 1231–34,
1240A, 1241, 1250D, 1251, 1255, 1258, 1260A,
12608, 1265, 1266,1269, 1270, 1270G, 1270H,
1270I,1270N,1270R, 1270S, 1270T, 1270W,
subtitle I of title XII, subtitle J of title
XII, title XIII, sections 1521, 1669, and
title XVII of the House amendment,
and modifications committed to con-
ference: Messrs. ENGEL, MEEKS, and
MCCAUL.
From the Committee on Homeland
Security, for consideration of sections
6006, 6012, and 8543 of the Senate bill,
and modifications committed to con-
ference: Mr. ROSE of New York, Ms.
UNDERWOOD, and Mr. WALKER.
From the Committee on the Judici-
ary, for consideration of section 1025,
1031, 1044, 1682, 6004, 6206, 6804, 6811,
6813–16, 6835, 6921, and 6944 of the Sen-
ate bill, and sections 530F, 530G, 550D,
550F, 550J, 570H, 729, 827, 1011, 1048, 1049,
1050C, 1093, 1099C, 1099K, 1099V, 1099Z–3,
1212, 1296A, 1704, 1711, 1713–16, and 1733
of the House amendment, and modi-
fications committed to conference: Mr.
NADLER, Ms. LOFGREN, and Mr. COLLINS
of Georgia.
From the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, for consideration of sections
314, 2812, 2814, 6001, 6020, subtitle C of
title LXVII, section 8524, part 1 of sub-
title B of title LXXXV, sections 8554,
and 8571 of the Senate bill, and sections
330G, 1094, 1099D, 1099F, 1099U, 2851, sub-
title F of title XXVIII, sections 2876,
and 2880 of the House amendment, and
modifications committed to con-
ference: Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. HAALAND,
and Mr. BISHOP of Utah.
From the Committee on Oversight
and Reform, for consideration of sec-
tions 218, 530, 559, 579, 1081, 1082, title
XI, sections 5802, 6012, subtitle B of
title LXV, sections 9304, 9307, 9311, 9313,
9314, 10303, 10432, 10434, 10601, 10603–05,
10612, 10741, and 10742 of the Senate bill,
and sections 212, 239, 550O, 629, 633, 804,
829, 842, 861, 872, 877, 883, 884, 891, 895,
899E, 899H, 899I, 1064, 1085, 1099B, title
XI, sections 1704, 1711, 1713–16, and 3127
of the House amendment, and modi-
fications committed to conference:
Messrs. LYNCH, CONNOLLY, and GREEN
of Tennessee.
From the Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology, for consider-
ation of sections 216, 219, 1612, 6001,
6006, 6008, 6009, 6742, 6754, 8524, and 10742
of the Senate bill, and sections 214, 217,
882, and 1089 of the House amendment,
and modifications committed to con-
ference: Mses. JOHNSON of Texas,
SHERRILL, and Mr. BAIRD.
From the Committee on Small Busi-
ness, for consideration of section 841 of
the Senate bill, and sections 872–76, 878,
879, 881, 882, and 886–89 of the House
amendment, and modifications com-
mitted to conference: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Messrs. GOLDEN, and CHABOT.
From the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure, for consider-
ation of sections 353, 1612, 1682, 2805,
title XXXV, sections 6001, 6006, 6012,
6015, 6019, 6021, 6754, 8500, 8511, 8517, 8519,
8520, 8522, 8523, 8525, 8532, 8543, 8545, 8546,
and 8571 of the Senate bill, and sections
311, 313, 330A, 330O, 351, 354, 555, 569,
580C, 606, 896, 2808, 3501, and 3504 of the
House amendment, and modifications
committed to conference: Messrs.
DELGADO, PAPPAS, and KATKO.
From the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs, for consideration of sections
568, 721, 726, 727, 1083, 1431, 2812, 2813,
5702, and 6007 of the Senate bill, and
sections 530, 530A, 545, 546, 550E, 550G,
550H, 550I, 550J, 569, 570E, 570F, 574, 624,
705, 706, 713, 715, 1093, 1126, and 1411 of
the House amendment, and modifica-
tions committed to conference: Mr.
TAKANO, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
and Mr. WATKINS.
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
The President pro tempore (Mr.
GRASSLEY) announced that on today,
September 18, 2019, he has signed the
following enrolled bill, which was pre-
viously signed by the Speaker of the
House:
H.R. 1200. An act to increase, effective as of
December 1, 2019, the rates of compensation
for veterans with service-connected disabil-
ities and the rates of dependency and indem-
nity compensation for the survivors of cer-
tain disabled veterans, and for other pur-
poses.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 806. An act to require compliant flame
mitigation devices to be used on portable
fuel containers for flammable liquid fuels,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
H.R. 1618. An act to encourage States to re-
quire the installation of residential carbon
monoxide detectors in homes, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
H.R. 2134. An act to reauthorize the Helen
Keller National Center for Youths and
Adults Who Are Deaf-Blind; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
H.R. 2211. An act to require the Consumer
Product Safety Commission to promulgate a
consumer product safety rule for free-stand-
ing clothing storage units to protect chil-
dren from tip-over related death or injury,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. SHELBY, from the Committee on
Appropriations:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Revised Alloca-
tion to Subcommittees of Budget Totals for
Fiscal Year 2020’’ (Rept. No. 116–106).
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEES
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. RISCH for the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
Andrew P. Bremberg, of Virginia, to be
Representative of the United States of Amer-
ica to the Office of the United Nations and
Other International Organizations in Gene-
va, with the rank of Ambassador.
Nominee: Andrew Bremberg.
Post: Representative of the United States
of American to the Office of the United Na-
tions and Other International Organizations
in Geneva, with the rank of Ambassador
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
Contributions, amount, date, and donee:
1. Self: $100, July 2015, Scott Walker for
America; $150, April 2016, Mike Gallagher for
Wisconsin.
2. Spouse: Maria Bremberg: None.
3. Children and Spouses: Paul Bemberg:
None; Lucy Bremberg: None; Jane Bremberg:
None; Anne Bremberg: None.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE6.021 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5574 September 18, 2019
4. Parents: Rebecca Bremberg: $250, July
2015, Scott Walker for America; Vernon
Bremberg: None.
5. Grandparents: Morris Gillett: None; Jane
Gillett: Deceased; Donald Bremberg: De-
ceased; Helen Bremberg: Deceased.
6. Brothers and Spouses: Peter Bremberg;
$50, July 2015, Scott Walker for America; Ra-
chel McKenny: None; John Bremberg: $10,
July 2015, Scott Walker for America; Joseph
Bremberg: $100, July 2015, Scott Walker for
America.
7. Sisters and Spouses: Maria Dolci: $100,
July 2015, Scott Walker for America; Matteo
Dolci: None; Elizabeth Streiff: None; Leyland
Streiff: None; Christina Bemberg: $25, July
2015, Scott Walker for America.
John Leslie Carwile, of Maryland, a Career
Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class
of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the Republic of
Latvia.
Nominee: John Leslie Carwile.
Post: Riga, Latvia.
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
Contributions, amount, date, donee.
1. Self: None;
2. Spouse Karin Hauschild: None;
3. Children and Spouses: Katherine
Carwile: None; Madeline Carwile: None.
4. Parents: Clifton Carwile: None; Marlene
Carwile: None.
5. Grandparents: Deceased.
6. Brothers and Spouses: N/A.
7. Sisters and Spouses: Terri Wichtendahl
(sister): None; Mark Wichtendahl: None.
Erin Elizabeth McKee, of California, a Ca-
reer Member of the Senior Foreign Service,
Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to the Inde-
pendent State of Papua New Guinea, and to
serve concurrently and without additional
compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary
and Plenipotentiary of the United States of
America to the Solomon Islands and Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to the Republic
of Vanuatu.
Nominee: Erin Elizabeth McKee.
Post: Ambassador to the Independent
State of Papua New Guinea, the Solomon Is-
lands, and the Republic of Vanuatu.
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
Contributions, Amount, Date, Donee:
1. Self: None.
2. Spouse: Sean Patrick McKee: None.
3. Children and Spouses: Caitlin Gloria
McKee (NB: child not of legal voting or mar-
riage age): none.
4. Parents: Harry Stuart Kinder: None;
Samantha Gray: None.
5. Grandparents: Deceased.
6. Brothers and Spouses: Devin Garrett
Robinson: None; Jennine Robinson (spouse):
None.
7. Sisters and Spouses: N/A (no sisters).
Anthony F. Godfrey, of Virginia, a Career
Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class
of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the Republic of
Serbia.
Nominee: Anthony F. Godfrey.
Post: Belgrade, Serbia.
The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
Contributions, Amount, Date, Donee:
1. Self: $100, 11/5/16, Hillary for America;
$100, 10/19/18, Andy Kim for Congress; $100, 10/
19/18, Act Blue; $100, 9/5/18, Act Blue; $100, 9/
5/18, Act Blue; $50, 7/14/18, Act Blue; $100, 7/14/
18, Act Blue.
2. Spouse: None.
3. Children and Spouses: None.
4. Parents: Aaron W. Godfrey: $100, 11/04/16,
Anna Throne-Hoist; $25, 10/25/16, Tammy
Duckworth; $25, 10/24/16, Maggie Hassan; $25,
10/21/16, Catherine Cortez Masto; $25, 10/21/16,
Hillary Clinton; $25, 10/21/16, Hillary Clinton;
$35, 10/17/16, Catherine Cortez Masto; $35, 10/
17/16, Catherine Cortez Masto; $35, 10/17/16,
Tammy Duckworth; $30, 10/30/18, Claire
McCaskill; $30, 10/16/18, Debbie Stabenow; $30,
10/13/18, Tammy Baldwin; $30, 10/12/18, Jacky
Rosen; $30, 10/11/18, Heidi Heitkamp; $30, 10/05/
18, Claire McCaskill; $30, 9/30/18, Jacky
Rosen; $30, 9/27/18, Tina Smith; $30, 9/27/18,
Tammy Baldwin; $30, 9/25/18, Heidi Heitkamp;
$30, 9/18/18, Claire McCaskill; $30, 9/15/18,
Debbie Stabenow; $30, 9/14/18, Nancy Klo-
buchar; $30, 9/13/18, Tina Smith; $30, 9/11/18,
Tammy Baldwin; $30, 9/10/18, Heidi Heitkamp;
$30, 9/3/18, Jacky Rosen; $30, 8/17/18, Claire
McCaskill; $40, 8/15/18, Heidi Heitkamp; $30, 8/
13/18, Tammy Baldwin; $750, 8/12/18, Perry
Gershon; $30, 8/10/18, Debbie Stabenow; $35, 8/
1/18, Jacky Rosen; $30, 7/14/18, Heidi
Heitkamp; $30, 7/24/18, Claire McCaskill; $30,
7/20/18, Tammy Baldwin; $30, 7/5/18, Jacky
Rosen; $30, 7/5/18, Debbie Stabenow. Valerie
Godfrey: $20, 3/2/16, DNC; $20, 4/2/16, DNC; $15,
5/30/16, DNC; $40, 9/2/17, DNC; $20, 12/18/17,
DNC; $30, 9/14/15, Hillary Clinton; $20, 11/24/16,
Hillary Clinton; $20, 3/1/16, Hillary Clinton;
$20, 4/2/16, Hillary Clinton; $20, 6/21/16, Hillary
Clinton; $20, 8/18/16, Hillary Clinton; $20, 9/29/
16, Hillary Clinton.
5. Grandparents: All Deceased.
6. Brothers and Spouses: Aaron Godfrey (no
contributions): Sally Kuzma: Sister-in-Law:
$25, 1/31/16, Act Blue; Thomas J. Godfrey:$15,
10/18/18, Act Blue.
7. Sisters and Spouses: Catherine Clare
Godfrey: $100, 6/26/18, Shannon Hader; $100, 6/
26/18, Act Blue; $25, 12/19/17, Act Blue. Ann
Clyne (no contributions): Myriam Godfrey
(no contributions): Maura Newman (no con-
tributions): Dan Newman—Brother-in-law:
$250, 6/14/16, DNC; $500, 6/16/16, Hillary Clin-
ton; $250, 5/22/18, DNC.
Herro Mustafa, of California, a Career
Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class
of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraor-
dinary and Plenipotentiary of the United
States of America to the Republic of Bul-
garia.
Nominee: Herro Mustafa.
Post: Ambassador to the Republic of Bul-
garia.
The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.
Contributions, Amount:
1. Self: None.
2. Spouse: Ravneesh Garg: None.
3. Child: Ariana Garg: None.
4. Child: Ashna Garg: None.
5. Mother: Nasrin Mustafa: None.
6. Father: Abdul Mustafa: None.
7. Grandfather: Mohammed Amin Mustafa:
Deceased.
8. Grandmother: Astella Husein: Deceased.
9. Grandfather: Hemmed Amin Abdulla:
Deceased.
10. Grandmother: Sefia Husein: Deceased.
11. Brother: Helo Mustafa: None.
12. Sister in Law: Willow Marr: None.
13. Brother: Barzan Mustafa: None.
14. Brother: Hawro Mustafa: None.
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, for the
Committee on Foreign Relations I re-
port favorably the following nomina-
tion lists which were printed in the
RECORDS on the dates indicated, and
ask unanimous consent, to save the ex-
pense of reprinting on the Executive
Calendar that these nominations lie at
the Secretary’s desk for the informa-
tion of Senators.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Foreign Service nomination of Courtney L.
Lacroix.
Foreign Service nominations beginning
with George Habib Abi-Nader and ending
with Alexis Lyn Zintak, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record on July 25, 2019.
Foreign Service nomination of Cynthia K.
Duerr.
Foreign Service nominations beginning
with Jessica Abenstein and ending with
David Waldron, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on July 25, 2019.
Foreign Service nominations beginning
with Kendra Michelle Arbaiza-Sundal and
ending with Jacqueline Leann Ward, which
nominations were received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record on
July 25, 2019.
By Mrs. FISCHER for Mr. INHOFE for the
Committee on Armed Services.
* Barbara McConnell Barrett, of Arizona,
to be Secretary of the Air Force.
* Ryan McCarthy, of Illinois, to be Sec-
retary of the Army.
Army nomination of Brig. Gen. Douglas A.
Sims II, to be Major General.
Army nomination of Col. Curtis A. Buz-
zard, to be Brigadier General.
Air Force nomination of Col. Linell A.
Letendre, to be Brigadier General.
Army nomination of Lt. Gen. James H.
Dickinson, to be Lieutenant General.
Army nomination of Maj. Gen. Ricky L.
Waddell, to be Lieutenant General.
Army nomination of Maj. Gen. Jason T.
Evans, to be Lieutenant General.
Army nomination of Maj. Gen. Raymond S.
Dingle, to be Lieutenant General.
Navy nomination of Rear Adm. Daryl L.
Caudle, to be Vice Admiral.
Air Force nomination of Maj. Gen. Glen D.
VanHerck, to be Lieutenant General.
Army nomination of Brig. Gen. Arthur J.
Logan, to be Major General.
Air Force nomination of Lt. Gen. Anthony
J. Cotton, to be Lieutenant General.
Navy nomination of Vice Adm. Colin J.
Kilrain, to be Vice Admiral.
Air Force nomination of Brig. Gen. Tim-
othy D. Haugh, to be Lieutenant General.
Air Force nomination of Maj. Gen. Michael
A. Minihan, to be Lieutenant General.
Air Force nomination of Maj. Gen. Scott
A. Kindsvater, to be Lieutenant General.
Navy nomination of Vice Adm. David M.
Kriete, to be Vice Admiral.
Navy nomination of Vice Adm. Stuart B.
Munsch, to be Vice Admiral.
Mrs. FISCHER for Mr. INHOFE. Mr.
President, for the Committee on Armed
Services I report favorably the fol-
lowing nomination lists which were
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE6.032 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5575
September 18, 2019
printed in the RECORDS on the dates in-
dicated, and ask unanimous consent, to
save the expense of reprinting on the
Executive Calendar that these nomina-
tions lie at the Secretary’s desk for the
information of Senators.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Air Force nomination of Christopher J.
Wood, to be Major.
Air Force nomination of Christian S.
Forrer, to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Sheva T. Nickravesh and ending with Angela
M. Thornton, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on July 15, 2019.
Air Force nomination of Michael W.
Luoma, to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Air Force nominations beginning with
David P. Abbott and ending with Justin L.
Wolthuizen, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on July 22, 2019.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Christian R. Acevedo and ending with
Zachary T. West, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on July 22, 2019.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Neils J. Abderhalden and ending with Brad
D. Zwawa, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 22, 2019.
Air Force nominations beginning with Mi-
chael Aaron Burnat and ending with Dylan
B. Williams, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on July 22, 2019.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Christopher M. Abbott and ending with
Mathew Zulauf, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on July 22, 2019.
Air Force nomination of Aaron J. Beebe, to
be Major.
Air Force nomination of Craig M.
Nordgren, to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Air Force nomination of Richard A. Palm-
er, to be Colonel.
Air Force nominations beginning with Lisa
M. Angotti and ending with Duncan K. Wil-
son, which nominations were received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on July 22, 2019.
Air Force nomination of Rondre F.
Baluyot, to be Major.
Air Force nomination of Peter J. Ahn, to
be Lieutenant Colonel.
Air Force nomination of Anthony S.
Gamboa, to be Colonel.
Air Force nominations beginning with An-
thony C. Bivins II and ending with Stacey J.
Wadsley, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 31, 2019.
Air Force nomination of Andrew Kim, to
be Major.
Air Force nomination of Catherine A.
Lane, to be Major.
Army nomination of Gabriel A. Miritello,
to be Major.
Army nomination of Nathan B. Gadberry,
to be Major.
Army nominations beginning with Sean C.
Heidgerken and ending with Clint E. Tracy,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on June 5, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Jesse
Abreu and ending with D006471 , which nomi-
nations were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record on June
5, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Richard
R. Abelkis and ending with G010532, which
nominations were received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record on
June 5, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Vincent
A. Amerena and ending with D014896, which
nominations were received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record on
June 5, 2019. (minus 1 nominee: David J.
Painter)
Army nomination of Camie R. Levin, to be
Major.
Army nomination of Steve A. Albritton, to
be Major.
Army nominations beginning with Gary M.
Clark and ending with Stephanie E. Stewart,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on July 15, 2019.
Army nomination of Christopher D. Bar-
rett, to be Major.
Army nomination of Ralphine R. Walton,
to be Major.
Army nomination of Matthew R. Campbell,
to be Major.
Army nomination of John C. Ross, to be
Major.
Army nomination of Robert T. Buckley, to
be Major.
Army nomination of Damien McGuigan, to
be Major.
Army nominations beginning with Kath-
leen M. Adamson and ending with Julian L.
Padgett, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 22, 2019.
Army nomination of Eraj V. Tennekoon, to
be Major.
Army nomination of Heung R. Noh, to be
Major.
Army nomination of Cesar C. Correarivera,
to be Major.
Army nomination of George J. Smolinski
III, to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Michael J. McNaught,
to be Major.
Army nominations beginning with Ken-
neth T. Baillie and ending with Kenneth J.
Weishaar, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 22, 2019.
Army nomination of Dexter D. Williams,
to be Major.
Army nominations beginning with Ben-
jamin Ahn and ending with Vivian K.
Yanquoiwest, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on July 31, 2019.
Army nomination of Spencer W. Robinson,
to be Colonel.
Army nomination of Robert B. Lackey, to
be Colonel.
Army nomination of Krista M. Klein, to be
Colonel.
Army nominations beginning with Denis J.
Mcdonnell and ending with Jeffrey C. Nich-
ols, which nominations were received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on July 31, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with
Chowdry M. Bashir and ending with Richard
M. Slusher, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 31, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Apolla
A. Benito and ending with Michael E. Terry,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on July 31, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Thomas
W. Bingamon and ending with Travis J.
Weiszhaar, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 31, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Tonya
L. Ehlert and ending with Arve A. Wikstrom,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on July 31, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Brian S.
Hatler and ending with William B. Walker,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on July 31, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Robert
G. Bonifacio and ending with Michael T.
Simpson, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 31, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Barbara
S. Antus and ending with Jean V.
Movingcollins, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on July 31, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Joyce
C. Anacker and ending with Byron J. Thomp-
son, which nominations were received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on July 31, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Bruce J.
Britson and ending with Thomas W. Hrabal,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on July 31, 2019.
Army nomination of Jason A. Foreman, to
be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Alexandra E.
Weiskopf, to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nominations beginning with Tracy
A. Ball and ending with Donna E. Ward,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on July 31, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Laurel
A. Kappedal and ending with Rhonda B.
White, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 31, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Anna L.
Aldana and ending with Joseph S. Seiler,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on July 31, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Karl
Anderson and ending with Claude R. Work-
man, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 31, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Nich-
olas D. Barringer and ending with D012819,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on September 9, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Erin E.
Ball and ending with D012821, which nomina-
tions were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record on Sep-
tember 9, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Lovie L.
Abraham and ending with D014502, which
nominations were received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record on
September 9, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Marlene
Ariasreynoso and ending with Kevin M. Zeeb,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on September 9, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Brit-
tany B. Beavis and ending with Raymond K.
Wong, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on September 9, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Ray-
mond J. Akerman, Jr. and ending with
D012876, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on September 9, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Sarah
H. Afriecq and ending with D014706, which
nominations were received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record on
September 9, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Brenda
J. Adams and ending with Shingo J. Ya-
mada, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on September 9, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE6.033 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5576 September 18, 2019
Army nomination of Slava Shapiro, to be
Major.
Army nomination of Rachel M. Romaine,
to be Major.
Army nomination of Kristy M. Chester, to
be Major.
Army nomination of Kevin D. Dalling, to
be Major.
Army nomination of Jay G. Sullivan, to be
Colonel.
Army nominations beginning with Brian S.
Borakove and ending with Colby B. Wyatt,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on September 9, 2019.
Army nomination of Javier Trevino, to be
Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Brendan B. Reina, to
be Major.
Army nomination of Benjamin A. Greif, to
be Major.
Army nomination of Slade A. McPherson,
to be Colonel.
Marine Corps nomination of Jeffery G.
Pioszak, to be Major.
Marine Corps nominations beginning with
John D. Barnes and ending with Kristin M.
Tortorici, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 15, 2019.
Marine Corps nomination of Daniel E.
Callaway, to be Major.
Marine Corps nomination of Nathan P.
Dmochowski, to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Navy nomination of Traci J. McKinnon, to
be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Anthony M. Hruby, to
be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Salahhudin A.
Adenkhalif, to be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Bradley D. Coletti, to
be Commander.
Navy nomination of Timothy K. Lynch, to
be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Dion M. Adams, to be
Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Christopher C. Cady,
to be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Andrew C. Mueller, to
be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Tyrone K. Potter, to
be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Francis C. Dailig, to
be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nominations beginning with David H.
Craig III and ending with Byron B. Holloway,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on July 15, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with James
M. Allen, Jr. and ending with Jonathan R.
Wheeler, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on July 22, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Eduardo
B. Amora and ending with Gregory S.
Woodard, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on September 9, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Janpaul
P. Amposta and ending with Lin L. Zheng,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on September 9, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Ashley
A. Aclese and ending with Gisselle I.
Zelsdorf, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on September 9, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Rachael
E. Baker and ending with Sara J. Wooten,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on September 9, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Alex-
ander Alba and ending with Myra S. Wear-
ing, which nominations were received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on September 9, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Holly K.
Aguigam and ending with Allison D.
Weinberg, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on September 9, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Timothy
J. Algiers and ending with Angela Zah,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on September 9, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Matthew
W. Catanese and ending with Grant C. Glov-
er, which nominations were received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on September 9, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Ramon
Acosta and ending with Sen F. Yu, which
nominations were received by the Senate and
appeared in the Congressional Record on
September 9, 2019.
Navy nominations beginning with Jona-
than T. Duenas and ending with James H.
Phan, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on September 9, 2019.
Navy nomination of Joshua K. Witt, to be
Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Stephen A. Jessogne,
to be Commander.
Navy nomination of Vanna J. Rocchi, to be
Lieutenant Commander.
* Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
f
EXECUTIVE REPORT OF
COMMITTEE—TREATY
The following executive report of
committee was submitted:
By Mr. RISCH, from the Committee on
Foreign Relations:
Treaty Doc. 116–1: Protocol to the North
Atlantic Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of
the Republic of North Macedonia with seven
declarations and one condition (Ex. Rept.
116–5)
The text of the committee-rec-
ommended resolution of advice and
consent to ratification is as follows:
Resolved, (two-thirds of the Senators present
concurring therein),
Section 1. Senate Advice and Consent Sub-
ject to Declarations and Conditions.
The Senate advises and consents to the
ratification of the Protocol to the North At-
lantic Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of
North Macedonia, which was opened for sig-
nature at Brussels on February 6, 2019, and
signed that day on behalf of the United
States of America (the ‘‘Protocol’’) (Treaty
Doc. 116–1), subject to the declarations of
section 2 and the conditions of section 3.
Sec. 2. Declarations.
The advice and consent of the Senate
under section 1 is subject to the following
declarations:
(1) REAFFIRMATION—THAT UNITED STATES
MEMBERSHIP IN NATO REMAINS A VITAL NA-
TIONAL SECURITY INTEREST OF THE UNITED
STATES. The Senate declares that—
(A) for 70 years the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO) has served as the pre-
eminent organization to defend the countries
in the North Atlantic area against all exter-
nal threats;
(B) through common action, the estab-
lished democracies of North America and Eu-
rope that were joined in NATO persevered
and prevailed in the task of ensuring the sur-
vival of democratic government in Europe
and North America throughout the Cold
War;
(C) NATO enhances the security of the
United States by embedding European states
in a process of cooperative security planning
and by ensuring an ongoing and direct lead-
ership role for the United States in European
security affairs;
(D) the responsibility and financial burden
of defending the democracies of Europe and
North America can be more equitably shared
through an alliance in which specific obliga-
tions and force goals are met by its mem-
bers;
(E) the security and prosperity of the
United States is enhanced by NATO’s collec-
tive defense against aggression that may
threaten the security of NATO members; and
(F) United States membership in NATO re-
mains a vital national security interest of
the United States.
(2) STRATEGIC RATIONALE FOR NATO EN-
LARGEMENT.—The Senate declares that—
(A) the United States and its NATO allies
face continued threats to their stability and
territorial integrity;
(B) an attack against North Macedonia, or
its destabilization arising from external sub-
version, would threaten the stability of Eu-
rope and jeopardize United States national
security interests;
(C) North Macedonia, having established a
democratic government and having dem-
onstrated a willingness to meet the require-
ments of membership, including those nec-
essary to contribute to the defense of all
NATO members, is in a position to further
the principles of the North Atlantic Treaty
and to contribute to the security of the
North Atlantic area; and
(D) extending NATO membership to North
Macedonia will strengthen NATO, enhance
stability in Southeast Europe, and advance
the interests of the United States and its
NATO allies.
(3) SUPPORT FOR NATO’S OPEN DOOR POL-
ICY.—The policy of the United States is to
support NATO’s Open Door Policy that al-
lows any European country to express its de-
sire to join NATO and demonstrate its abil-
ity to meet the obligations of NATO mem-
bership.
(4) FUTURE CONSIDERATION OF CANDIDATES
FOR MEMBERSHIP IN NATO.—
(A) SENATE FINDING.—The Senate finds
that the United States will not support the
accession to the North Atlantic Treaty of, or
the invitation to begin accession talks with,
any European state (other than North Mac-
edonia), unless—
(i) the President consults with the Senate
consistent with Article II, section 2, clause 2
of the Constitution of the United States (re-
lating to the advice and consent of the Sen-
ate to the making of treaties); and
(ii) the prospective NATO member can ful-
fill all of the obligations and responsibilities
of membership, and the inclusion of such
state in NATO would serve the overall polit-
ical and strategic interests of NATO and the
United States.
(B) REQUIREMENT FOR CONSENSUS AND RATI-
FICATION.—The Senate declares that no ac-
tion or agreement other than a consensus de-
cision by the full membership of NATO, ap-
proved by the national procedures of each
NATO member, including, in the case of the
United States, the requirements of Article
II, section 2, clause 2 of the Constitution of
the United States (relating to the advice and
consent of the Senate to the making of trea-
ties), will constitute a commitment to col-
lective defense and consultations pursuant
to Articles 4 and 5 of the North Atlantic
Treaty.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE6.034 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5577
September 18, 2019
(5) INFLUENCE OF NON-NATO MEMBERS ON
NATO DECISIONS.—The Senate declares that
any country that is not a member of NATO
shall have no impact on decisions related to
NATO enlargement.
(6) SUPPORT FOR 2014 WALES SUMMIT DEFENSE
SPENDING BENCHMARK.—The Senate declares
that all NATO members should continue to
move towards the guideline outlined in the
2014 Wales Summit Declaration to spend a
minimum of 2 percent of their Gross Domes-
tic Product (GDP) on defense and 20 percent
of their defense budgets on major equipment,
including research and development, by 2024.
(7) SUPPORT FOR NORTH MACEDONIA’S RE-
FORM PROCESS.—The Senate declares that—
(A) North Macedonia has made difficult re-
forms and taken steps to address corruption,
but the United States and other NATO mem-
ber states should not consider this important
process complete and should continue to
urge additional reforms; and
(B) North Macedonia and Greece’s conclu-
sion of the Prespa Agreement, which re-
solved a long-standing bilateral dispute, has
made possible the former’s invitation to
NATO, and the United States and other
NATO members should continue to press
both nations to persevere in their continued
implementation of the Agreement and en-
courage a strategic partnership between the
two nations.
Sec. 3. Conditions.
The advice and consent of the Senate
under section 1 is subject to the following
conditions:
(1) PRESIDENTIAL CERTIFICATION.—Prior to
the deposit of the instrument of ratification,
the President shall certify to the Senate as
follows:
(A) The inclusion of North Macedonia in
NATO will not have the effect of increasing
the overall percentage share of the United
States in the common budgets of NATO.
(B) The inclusion of North Macedonia in
NATO does not detract from the ability of
the United States to meet or to fund its mili-
tary requirements outside the North Atlan-
tic area.
Sec. 4. Definitions.
In this resolution:
(1) NATO MEMBERS.—The term ‘‘NATO
members’’ means all countries that are par-
ties to the North Atlantic Treaty.
(2) NON-NATO MEMBERS.—The term ‘‘non-
NATO members’’ means all countries that
are not parties to the North Atlantic Treaty.
(3) NORTH ATLANTIC AREA.—The term
‘‘North Atlantic area’’ means the area cov-
ered by Article 6 of the North Atlantic Trea-
ty, as applied by the North Atlantic Council.
(4) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY.—The term
‘‘North Atlantic Treaty’’ means the North
Atlantic Treaty, signed at Washington April
4, 1949 (63 Stat. 2241; TIAS 1964), as amend-
ed—
(5) UNITED STATES INSTRUMENT OF RATIFI-
CATION.—The term ‘‘United States instru-
ment of ratification’’ means the instrument
of ratification of the United States of the
Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty of 1949
on the Accession of North Macedonia.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. COTTON (for himself and Ms.
DUCKWORTH):
S. 2494. A bill to direct the Secretary of De-
fense to provide travel to Dover Air Force
Base for family members of members of the
Armed Forces who die outside of the United
States but not in a theater of combat oper-
ations so the family may receive the remains
of the deceased, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr. BEN-
NET):
S. 2495. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to establish an exception to
the penalty on early distributions from
qualified plans for individuals diagnosed
with certain terminal illnesses; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. LEAHY, and Mr. SAND-
ERS):
S. 2496. A bill to amend title II of the So-
cial Security Act to eliminate the Medicare
and disability insurance benefits waiting pe-
riods for disabled individuals; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself,
Mr. BROWN, and Ms. ROSEN):
S. 2497. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exclude certain depend-
ent income when calculating modified ad-
justed gross income for the purposes of eligi-
bility for premium tax credits; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr. MUR-
PHY, Ms. HIRONO, and Mr. BROWN):
S. 2498. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to clarify the Federal Pell
Grant duration limits of borrowers who at-
tend an institution of higher education that
closes or commits fraud or other misconduct,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
BENNET, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. COONS, Mr. JONES, Mr.
KING, Mr. WYDEN, and Mr. VAN HOL-
LEN):
S. 2499. A bill to effectively staff the public
elementary schools and secondary schools of
the United States with school-based mental
health services providers; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself and Mr.
GARDNER):
S. 2500. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to authorize a loan repayment
program for mental health professionals to
relieve workforce shortages, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. WYDEN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. REED, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. SANDERS, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Ms. SMITH, and Mr. MURPHY):
S. 2501. A bill to amend the Richard B. Rus-
sell National School Lunch Act to improve
the child and adult care food program; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
By Mr. SCOTT of Florida (for himself,
Mr. COTTON, Mr. HAWLEY, Mr. RUBIO,
Mr. MURPHY, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2502. A bill to ban the Federal procure-
ment of certain drones and other unmanned
aircraft systems, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. DURBIN, and
Mr. COONS):
S. 2503. A bill to reauthorize the United
States Commission on International Reli-
gious Freedom, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Mr.
CRAMER):
S. 2504. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to direct the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to furnish hyperbaric oxygen
therapy to veterans with traumatic brain in-
jury or post-traumatic stress disorder; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. UDALL,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. REED,
Mr. DURBIN, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr.
SANDERS, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. MENENDEZ, and Mr.
LEAHY):
S. 2505. A bill to provide that Executive
Order 13783 and certain rules shall have no
force or effect, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr.
MARKEY):
S. 2506. A bill to direct the Administrator
of the Federal Aviation Administration to
enter into appropriate arrangements with
the National Academies of Sciences, Engi-
neering, and Medicine to provide for a report
on the health impacts of air traffic noise and
pollution, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of Florida):
S. 2507. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to authorize admission
of Canadian retirees as long-term visitors for
pleasure described in section 101(a)(15)(B) of
such Act, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Ms.
MCSALLY):
S. 2508. A bill to require the Secretary of
Energy to establish a council to conduct a
survey and analysis of the employment fig-
ures and demographics in the energy, energy
efficiency, and motor vehicle sectors of the
United States, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. CANTWELL,
Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
SCHATZ, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. CARPER, Mr.
BENNET, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. COONS,
Ms. WARREN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms.
HIRONO, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. SANDERS,
Mr. REED, Ms. SMITH, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. WYDEN, Mr.
KAINE, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. LEAHY,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. UDALL, Mr. CASEY,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mrs. MURRAY, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, and Mr. DURBIN):
S. Res. 316. A resolution supporting the
clean vehicle emissions standards of the
United States and defending the authority of
States under the Clean Air Act to protect
the people of those States from harmful air
pollution; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr.
PERDUE, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr.
ISAKSON, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. BOOKER,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
PETERS, and Ms. ROSEN):
S. Res. 317. A resolution recognizing the se-
riousness of polycystic ovary syndrome
(PCOS) and expressing support for the des-
ignation of September 2019 as ‘‘PCOS Aware-
ness Month’’; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. RISCH (for himself, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. COONS, Mr.
RUBIO, and Mr. CARDIN):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE6.027 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5578 September 18, 2019
S. Res. 318. A resolution to support the
Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and
Malaria, and the Sixth Replenishment; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 27
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
27, a bill to amend the Surface Mining
Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 to
transfer certain funds to the 1974
United Mine Workers of America Pen-
sion Plan, and for other purposes.
S. 123
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 123, a bill to require the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to enter
into a contract or other agreement
with a third party to review appointees
in the Veterans Health Administration
who had a license terminated for cause
by a State licensing board for care or
services rendered at a non-Veterans
Health Administration facility and to
provide individuals treated by such an
appointee with notice if it is deter-
mined that an episode of care or serv-
ices to which they received was below
the standard of care, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 133
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
RISCH), the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) and the Senator from Texas
(Mr. CORNYN) were added as cosponsors
of S. 133, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal, collectively, to the
United States merchant mariners of
World War II, in recognition of their
dedicated and vital service during
World War II.
S. 172
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. MCSALLY) and the Senator from
Florida (Mr. SCOTT) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 172, a bill to delay the re-
imposition of the annual fee on health
insurance providers until after 2021.
S. 206
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 206, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal to the female tele-
phone operators of the Army Signal
Corps, known as the ‘‘Hello Girls’’.
S. 286
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
286, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for the
coverage of marriage and family thera-
pist services and mental health coun-
selor services under part B of the Medi-
care program, and for other purposes.
S. 296
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII
of the Social Security Act to ensure
more timely access to home health
services for Medicare beneficiaries
under the Medicare program.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 433, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to im-
prove home health payment reforms
under the Medicare program.
S. 518
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. GRAHAM) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 518, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide for Medicare coverage of cer-
tain lymphedema compression treat-
ment items as items of durable medical
equipment.
S. 593
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 593, a bill to amend the Reli-
gious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993
to protect civil rights and otherwise
prevent meaningful harm to third par-
ties, and for other purposes.
S. 631
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 631, a bill to provide for
the admission of the State of Wash-
ington, D.C. into the Union.
S. 668
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 668, a bill to amend title XVIII
of the Social Security Act to waive co-
insurance under Medicare for
colorectal cancer screening tests, re-
gardless of whether therapeutic inter-
vention is required during the screen-
ing.
S. 691
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 691, a bill to amend title XVIII
of the Social Security Act to enhance
prescription drug affordability by ex-
panding access to assistance with out-
of-pocket costs under Medicare part D
for low-income seniors and individuals
with disabilities.
S. 800
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Mr.
GRASSLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 800, a bill to establish a postsec-
ondary student data system.
S. 880
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
880, a bill to provide outreach and re-
porting on comprehensive Alzheimer’s
disease care planning services fur-
nished under the Medicare program.
S. 997
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 997, a bill to recognize and
honor the service of individuals who
served in the United States Cadet
Nurse Corps during World War II, and
for other purposes.
S. 1015
At the request of Mr. BURR, the name
of the Senator from Wisconsin (Ms.
BALDWIN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1015, a bill to require the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget
to review and make certain revisions
to the Standard Occupational Classi-
fication System, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1141
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1141, a bill to provide predictability
and certainty in the tax law, create
jobs, and encourage investment.
S. 1200
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1200, a bill to create protections for de-
pository institutions that provide fi-
nancial services to cannabis-related le-
gitimate businesses and service pro-
viders for such businesses, and for
other purposes.
S. 1223
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1223, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for the
non-application of Medicare competi-
tive acquisition rates to complex reha-
bilitative wheelchairs and accessories.
S. 1267
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) and the Senator from
Illinois (Ms. DUCKWORTH) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1267, a bill to establish
within the Smithsonian Institution the
National Museum of the American
Latino, and for other purposes.
S. 1279
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
names of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and the Senator
from West Virginia (Mr. MANCHIN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1279, a bill to
reauthorize mandatory funding pro-
grams for historically Black colleges
and universities and other minority-
serving institutions.
S. 1443
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1443, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a non-
refundable credit for working family
caregivers.
S. 1491
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1491, a bill to prohibit forced arbi-
tration in work disputes, and for other
purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE6.031 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5579
September 18, 2019
S. 1791
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1791, a bill to prohibit dis-
crimination on the basis of religion,
sex (including sexual orientation and
gender identity), and marital status in
the administration and provision of
child welfare services, to improve safe-
ty, well-being, and permanency for les-
bian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and
queer or questioning foster youth, and
for other purposes.
S. 2001
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2001, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal to Willie O’Ree, in
recognition of his extraordinary con-
tributions and commitment to hockey,
inclusion, and recreational oppor-
tunity.
S. 2042
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2042, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of the Treasury to mint coins in
commemoration of the National Purple
Heart Hall of Honor.
S. 2054
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2054, a bill to posthumously award
the Congressional Gold Medal, collec-
tively, to Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods,
J. Christopher Stevens, and Sean
Smith, in recognition of their contribu-
tions to the Nation.
S. 2085
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2085, a bill to authorize the Secretary
of Education to award grants to eligi-
ble entities to carry out educational
programs about the Holocaust, and for
other purposes.
S. 2118
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. YOUNG) and the Senator from Mas-
sachusetts (Ms. WARREN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2118, a bill to prohibit
United States persons from dealing in
certain information and communica-
tions technology or services from for-
eign adversaries and to require the ap-
proval of Congress to terminate certain
export controls in effect with respect
to Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., and
for other purposes.
S. 2158
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA), the Senator from Michi-
gan (Ms. STABENOW), the Senator from
Wisconsin (Ms. BALDWIN) and the Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY)
were added as cosponsors of S. 2158, a
bill to improve certain programs of the
Department of Health and Human
Services with respect to heritable dis-
orders.
S. 2219
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2219, a bill to clarify the rights of
all persons who are held or detained at
a port of entry or at any detention fa-
cility overseen by U.S. Customs and
Border Protection or U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement.
S. 2229
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) and the Senator
from Mississippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH)
were added as cosponsors of S. 2229, a
bill to protect consumers from decep-
tive practices with respect to online
booking of hotel reservations, and for
other purposes.
S. 2238
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, her
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
2238, a bill to protect elections for pub-
lic office by providing financial support
and enhanced security for the infra-
structure used to carry out such elec-
tions, and for other purposes.
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
2238, supra.
S. 2353
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
names of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) and the Senator from
Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2353, a bill to direct the
Administrator of the Federal Emer-
gency Management Agency to develop
guidance for firefighters and other
emergency response personnel on best
practices to protect them from expo-
sure to PFAS and to limit and prevent
the release of PFAS into the environ-
ment, and for other purposes.
S. 2434
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
names of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO), the Senator from
Maine (Ms. COLLINS) and the Senator
from Wisconsin (Ms. BALDWIN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2434, a bill to
establish the National Criminal Justice
Commission.
S. 2485
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2485, a bill to prohibit Federal
agencies from using Government funds
to pay for expenses at lodging estab-
lishments that are owned by or employ
certain public officials or their rel-
atives.
S. 2491
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) and the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2491, a bill to
terminate certain rules issued by the
Secretary of the Interior and the Sec-
retary of Commerce relating to endan-
gered and threatened species, and for
other purposes.
S. 2492
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2492, a bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to provide best
practices on student suicide awareness
and prevention training and condition
State educational agencies, local edu-
cational agencies, and tribal edu-
cational agencies receiving funds under
section 520A of such Act to establish
and implement a school-based student
suicide awareness and prevention
training policy.
S. RES. 274
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) and the Senator from
New Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 274, a
resolution expressing solidarity with
Falun Gong practitioners who have
lost lives, freedoms, and other rights
for adhering to their beliefs and prac-
tices, and condemning the practice of
non-consenting organ harvesting, and
for other purposes.
S. RES. 303
At the request of Mr. HAWLEY, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. Res. 303, a resolution calling upon
the leadership of the Government of
the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea to dismantle its kwan-li-so po-
litical prison labor camp system, and
for other purposes.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 316—SUP-
PORTING THE CLEAN VEHICLE
EMISSIONS STANDARDS OF THE
UNITED STATES AND DEFEND-
ING THE AUTHORITY OF STATES
UNDER THE CLEAN AIR ACT TO
PROTECT THE PEOPLE OF THOSE
STATES FROM HARMFUL AIR
POLLUTION
Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. CARPER, Mr. BENNET, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. COONS, Ms. WARREN,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. HIRONO, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. REED, Ms.
SMITH, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. CARDIN,
Mr. WYDEN, Mr. KAINE, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. LEAHY, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr.
UDALL, Mr. CASEY, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mrs.
MURRAY, Ms. DUCKWORTH, and Mr. DUR-
BIN) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public
Works:
S. RES. 316
Whereas Congress enacted the Clean Air
Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.), which requires
the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency (referred to in this pre-
amble as the ‘‘EPA’’) to set standards con-
trolling air pollutant emissions from motor
vehicles to prevent the endangerment of pub-
lic health and welfare;
Whereas motor vehicle pollution contrib-
utes to serious health problems faced by the
people of the United States, including—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE6.019 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5580 September 18, 2019
(1) asthma attacks;
(2) heart attacks;
(3) lung cancer; and
(4) premature death;
Whereas, through climate change, green-
house gas (referred to in this preamble as
‘‘GHG’’) emissions from motor vehicles con-
tribute to other health burdens, including—
(1) worsened air pollution;
(2) extreme heat;
(3) increased spread of infectious diseases;
and
(4) exacerbated natural disasters;
Whereas all people of the United States are
vulnerable to the health impacts of GHGs,
but many individuals and communities are
at a greater risk of experiencing those im-
pacts, including—
(1) children;
(2) the elderly;
(3) individuals with lung and heart disease;
(4) low-income communities; and
(5) communities of color;
Whereas recent reports from the Intergov-
ernmental Panel on Climate Change and the
United States Global Change Research Pro-
gram affirm the need to mitigate climate
change and the effects of climate change;
Whereas section 209 of the Clean Air Act
(42 U.S.C. 7543) preserves the authority of the
State of California to set vehicle emissions
standards that, in the aggregate, are at least
as protective of public health and welfare as
applicable Federal vehicle emissions stand-
ards;
Whereas section 177 of the Clean Air Act
(42 U.S.C. 7507) allows States other than Cali-
fornia to adopt, in lieu of the Federal re-
quirements, the standards set by the State of
California, which, in the aggregate, are at
least as protective of public health and wel-
fare as applicable Federal vehicle emissions
standards;
Whereas the EPA has authority under the
Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.) to regu-
late GHG emissions from vehicles;
Whereas the States of Colorado, Con-
necticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massa-
chusetts, New Jersey, New York, Oregon,
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, and
Washington have exercised the authority to
adopt, pursuant to the rights of those States
preserved under section 177 of the Clean Air
Act (42 U.S.C. 7507), vehicle emissions stand-
ards adopted by the State of California that,
in the aggregate, are at least as protective of
public health and welfare as the otherwise
applicable standards set by the Federal Gov-
ernment;
Whereas the Energy Policy and Conserva-
tion Act (42 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.) and the Ten-
in-Ten Fuel Economy Act (Public Law 110–
140; 121 Stat. 1498) require the Secretary of
Transportation to set maximum feasible cor-
porate average fuel economy standards, with
the ultimate goal of promoting energy sav-
ings and reducing oil consumption;
Whereas the Federal Government, the
State of California, and the automobile in-
dustry have agreed to a coordinated set of
regulations, known as the ‘‘One National
Program’’, that—
(1) aligns, as closely as possible, the Fed-
eral light-duty vehicle GHG emissions stand-
ards and fuel economy standards for vehicles
of model year 2012 and each model year
thereafter with the light-duty vehicle GHG
emissions standards and fuel economy stand-
ards adopted by the State of California; and
(2) sets achievable standards for light-duty
vehicle GHG emissions and fuel economy
that increase in stringency through model
year 2025;
Whereas the EPA, the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration, and the Cali-
fornia Air Resources Board have collabo-
rated on an extensive analysis that clearly
demonstrates that the Federal GHG emis-
sions standards and the Federal fuel econ-
omy standards adopted in 2012 for model
years 2017 through 2025—
(1) can be met with a wide range of tech-
nologies;
(2) are expected to be met with advanced
gasoline technologies; and
(3) will accommodate contemporary con-
sumer purchasing trends;
Whereas in January 2017, the Adminis-
trator of the EPA issued a final determina-
tion to maintain the existing GHG emissions
standards for vehicles of model year 2022
through 2025, based on the extensive tech-
nical record showing that those standards
are appropriate and achievable;
Whereas the light-duty vehicle GHG emis-
sions and fuel economy standards of the
United States—
(1) support more than 288,000 automobile
manufacturing jobs across 1,200 facilities in
the United States;
(2) keep automobile companies in the
United States globally competitive as other
countries adopt strict clean vehicle emis-
sions standards; and
(3) protect consumers in the United States
from dirtier and more costly technology;
Whereas the transportation sector has sur-
passed the energy sector as the largest
source of GHG emissions in the United
States;
Whereas the light-duty vehicle GHG emis-
sions and fuel economy standards of the
United States, if fully implemented through
model year 2025, will—
(1) reduce the consumption of oil in the
United States by 2,400,000 barrels per day;
(2) save consumers in the United States
$130,000,000,000 at the gas pump by 2030; and
(3) reduce GHG emissions in the United
States by 470,000,000 metric tons by 2030;
Whereas the light-duty vehicle GHG emis-
sions and fuel economy standards of the
United States protect low-income commu-
nities and communities of color from being
disproportionately affected by public health
and economic burdens; and
Whereas 87 percent of people in the United
States—
(1) support maintaining strong clean vehi-
cle emissions standards; and
(2) want automakers to continue to im-
prove fuel economy for all types of vehicles:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the existing set of regulations,
known as the ‘‘One National Program’’,
which contains the goals of—
(A) reducing greenhouse gas (referred to in
this resolving clause as ‘‘GHG’’) emissions
and oil usage;
(B) protecting national security; and
(C) protecting human health and welfare;
and
(2) to meet those goals, supports policies
that—
(A) achieve maximum feasible reductions
in oil use;
(B) reduce GHG emissions from mobile
sources;
(C) recognize the rights and importance of
States under cooperative federalism to
choose to set and follow vehicle emissions
standards under the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C.
7401 et seq.) that are stronger than those set
by the Federal Government; and
(D) ensure that the President, the Sec-
retary of Transportation, and the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency solicit input from State parties im-
pacted by any changes to the existing GHG
emissions standards for light-duty vehicles
and the associated standards for corporate
average fuel economy.
SENATE RESOLUTION 317—RECOG-
NIZING THE SERIOUSNESS OF
POLYCYSTIC OVARY SYNDROME
(PCOS) AND EXPRESSING SUP-
PORT FOR THE DESIGNATION OF
SEPTEMBER 2019 AS ‘‘PCOS
AWARENESS MONTH’’
Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr.
PERDUE, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. ISAK-
SON, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. BOOKER, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
PETERS, and Ms. ROSEN) submitted the
following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions:
S. RES. 317
Whereas polycystic ovary syndrome (in
this preamble referred to as ‘‘PCOS’’) is a
common health problem among women and
girls involving a hormonal imbalance;
Whereas there is no universal definition of
PCOS, but researchers estimate that be-
tween 5,000,000 and 10,000,000 women in the
United States are affected by the condition;
Whereas, according to a 2004 study, the an-
nual burden of PCOS in the United States is
an estimated $4,360,000,000, and this figure
pertains to only the reproductive years of
women and does not consider the cost of
other comorbidities, including obstetrical
complications, or the cost of metabolic
morbidities in post-menopause or adoles-
cence;
Whereas PCOS can affect girls at the onset
of puberty and throughout the remainder of
their lives;
Whereas the symptoms of PCOS include in-
fertility, irregular or absent menstrual peri-
ods, acne, weight gain, thinning of scalp
hair, excessive facial and body hair growth,
numerous small ovarian cysts, pelvic pain,
and mental health problems;
Whereas women with PCOS have higher
rates of psychosocial disorders, including de-
pression, anxiety, bipolar disorder, and eat-
ing disorders, and are at greater risk for sui-
cide;
Whereas adolescents with PCOS often are
not diagnosed, and many have metabolic
dysfunction and insulin resistance, which
can lead to type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular
disease, obstructive sleep apnea, non-
alcoholic fatty liver disease, and
endometrial cancer at a young adult age;
Whereas PCOS is the most common cause
of female infertility;
Whereas PCOS in pregnancy is associated
with increased risk of gestational diabetes,
preeclampsia, pregnancy-induced hyper-
tension, preterm delivery, cesarean delivery,
miscarriage, and fetal and infant death;
Whereas women with PCOS are at in-
creased risk of developing high blood pres-
sure, high cholesterol, stroke, and heart dis-
ease (the leading cause of death among
women);
Whereas women with PCOS have a more
than 50 percent chance of developing type 2
diabetes or prediabetes before the age of 40;
Whereas women with PCOS may be at a
higher risk for breast cancer and ovarian
cancer, and their risk for developing
endometrial cancer is 3 times higher, than
women who do not have PCOS;
Whereas research has found genetic evi-
dence of a causal link between depression
and PCOS;
Whereas research has indicated PCOS
shares a genetic architecture with metabolic
traits, as evidenced by genetic correlations
between PCOS and obesity, fasting insulin,
type 2 diabetes, lipid levels, and coronary ar-
tery disease;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE6.025 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5581
September 18, 2019
Whereas adolescents with PCOS are at
markedly increased risk for type 2 diabetes,
fatty liver disease, and heart disease;
Whereas PCOS negatively alters metabolic
function independent of, but exacerbated by,
an increased body mass index (BMI);
Whereas an estimated 50 percent of women
with PCOS are undiagnosed, and many re-
main undiagnosed until they experience fer-
tility difficulties or develop type 2 diabetes
or other cardiometabolic disorders;
Whereas the cause of PCOS is unknown,
but researchers have found strong links to a
genetic predisposition and significant insulin
resistance, which affects up to 70 percent of
women with PCOS; and
Whereas there is no known cure for PCOS:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes polycystic ovary syndrome
(in this resolution referred to as ‘‘PCOS’’) as
a serious disorder that impacts many aspects
of health, including cardiometabolic, repro-
ductive, and mental health, and quality of
life;
(2) expresses support for the designation of
September 2019 as ‘‘PCOS Awareness
Month’’;
(3) supports the goals and ideals of PCOS
Awareness Month, which are—
(A) to increase awareness of, and education
about, PCOS and its connection to
comorbidities, such as type 2 diabetes,
endometrial cancer, cardiovascular disease,
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, and mental
health disorders, among the general public,
women, girls, and health care professionals;
(B) to improve diagnosis and treatment of
PCOS;
(C) to disseminate information on diag-
nosis, treatment, and management of PCOS,
including prevention of comorbidities such
as type 2 diabetes, endometrial cancer, car-
diovascular disease, nonalcoholic fatty liver
disease, and eating disorders; and
(D) to improve quality of life and outcomes
for women and girls with PCOS;
(4) recognizes the need for further research,
improved treatment and care options, and a
cure for PCOS;
(5) acknowledges the struggles affecting all
women and girls afflicted with PCOS in the
United States;
(6) urges medical researchers and health
care professionals to advance their under-
standing of PCOS to improve research, diag-
nosis, and treatment of PCOS for women and
girls; and
(7) encourages States, territories, and lo-
calities to support the goals and ideals of
PCOS Awareness Month.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 318—TO SUP-
PORT THE GLOBAL FUND TO
FIGHT AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS AND
MALARIA, AND THE SIXTH RE-
PLENISHMENT
Mr. RISCH (for himself, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. COONS, Mr.
RUBIO, and Mr. CARDIN) submitted the
following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations:
S. RES. 318
Whereas the Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria has been an effec-
tive partnership of governments, the private
sector, civil society, and affected commu-
nities to galvanize political and financial ef-
forts to improve the response to these
epidemics since 2002;
Whereas, in 2017, the Global Fund contrib-
uted to extraordinary improvements in glob-
al health that would otherwise not have oc-
curred, including a more than 50 percent re-
duction in the number of AIDS-related
deaths since the peak in 2005, a 37 percent de-
cline in tuberculosis (TB) deaths since 2000,
and a 60 percent decline in the number of
malaria deaths since 2000;
Whereas, since the Global Fund’s creation
in 2002, more than 27,000,000 lives have been
saved in the countries where it invests;
Whereas the Global Fund and its partners
work to maintain a steadfast commitment to
transparency and accountability and have
received high marks in multilateral aid re-
views and by independent watchdog groups;
Whereas a 2019 study published in the An-
nals of Global Health found evidence of asso-
ciated improvements in government ac-
countability, control of corruption, political
freedoms, regulatory quality, and rule of law
that are significant in countries where the
Global Fund invests;
Whereas, despite progress in combating
AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria, challenges
such as drug and insecticide resistance,
reaching marginalized and vulnerable popu-
lations, and complacency in the fight against
infectious diseases threaten further progress;
Whereas United States leadership has been
critical to the success of the Global Fund,
both as its largest donor and through its
oversight role on the Board of the Global
Fund;
Whereas Global Fund programs and activi-
ties support and complement United States
bilateral health programs, including the
President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief,
the President’s Malaria Initiative, and the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment tuberculosis program;
Whereas the United States is limited by
law from contributing more than 33 percent
of the Global Fund budget, thereby encour-
aging other partners to significantly in-
crease their contributions;
Whereas the Global Fund’s requirements
for co-financing have spurred domestic in-
vestments, with recipient countries commit-
ting 41 percent more of their own funding to
fight AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria for
2018–2020 compared to 2015–2017;
Whereas the Global Fund has called on do-
nors to support its Sixth Replenishment by
mobilizing a minimum of $14,000,000,000 in
donor commitments for 2021–2023;
Whereas Canada, the European Union, Ger-
many, India, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg,
Japan, Portugal, Switzerland, and the
United Kingdom have responded to the call
by significantly increasing their respective
pledges for the Sixth Replenishment;
Whereas recipient countries also are ex-
pected to increase their co-financing by 48
percent, growing to $46,000,000,000 in 2021–
2023; and
Whereas, with these resources secured, the
Global Fund projects it will reduce the num-
ber of deaths due to AIDS, TB, and malaria
by nearly 50 percent, avert 234,000,000 infec-
tions or disease cases, and save an additional
16,000,000 lives; Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) commends the work of the Global Fund
and its partners for their contributions
aimed at ending the epidemics of AIDS, tu-
berculosis, and malaria;
(2) affirms the support of the United States
for the goal of securing a minimum of
$14,000,000,000 in donor commitments for the
Sixth Global Fund Replenishment, to be held
on October 10, 2019, in Lyon, France;
(3) urges donor countries to step up the
fight and increase their pledges for the Sixth
Global Fund Replenishment;
(4) urges Global Fund recipient countries
to continue to make and meet ambitious co-
financing commitments to sustain progress
in ending the epidemics of AIDS, tuber-
culosis, and malaria; and
(5) encourages United States bilateral aid
programs to continue their collaboration
with the Global Fund to maximize the life-
saving impact of global health investments.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 6
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, September 18,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS
The Committee on Environment and
Public Works is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, September 18, 2019, at 10
a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, Sep-
tember 18, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a
hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, Sep-
tember 18, 2019, at 1:30 p.m., to conduct
a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, Sep-
tember 18, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct
a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS
The Committee on Indian Affairs is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, Sep-
tember 18, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct
a hearing.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to grant floor privi-
leges to two of my fellows, Benjamin
Riley and Miranda Hernandez, for the
remainder of the Congress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 19, 2019
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 10 a.m., Thursday, Sep-
tember 19; further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE6.023 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5582 September 18, 2019
time for the two leaders be reserved for
their use later in the day, morning
business be closed, and the Senate pro-
ceed to executive session and resume
consideration of the McGuire nomina-
tion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 7:09 p.m., stands adjourned until
Thursday, September 19, 2019, at 10
a.m.
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate September 18, 2019:
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ROBERT A. DESTRO, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF STATE FOR DEMOCRACY, HUMAN
RIGHTS, AND LABOR.
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
BRIAN CALLANAN, OF NEW JERSEY, TO BE GENERAL
COUNSEL FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY.
BRENT JAMES MCINTOSH, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE AN
UNDER SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G18SE6.054 S18SEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1167
September 18, 2019
RECOGNIZING THE 10TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF CHICKEN OF THE SEA’S
LYONS FACILITY
HON. RICK W. ALLEN
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
acknowledge the important work of Chicken of
the Sea International and its investment in
Georgia’s 12th Congressional District.
Ten years ago, we received exciting news
that our nation’s leading seafood provider was
returning its tuna canning operations to the
United States. Specifically, we learned it was
opening its first domestic operations in Lyons,
Georgia.
I recently had the opportunity to visit the
Lyons facility and learn more about how their
operations have expanded over the last dec-
ade. Chicken of the Sea has invested millions
in state-of-the-art technology and helped to
train our next generation of skilled workers
through their apprenticeship program, creating
more jobs and promoting economic oppor-
tunity throughout Toombs County.
I thank Chicken of the Sea for its continued
investment in the community, and I congratu-
late the Lyons facility on a successful 10 years
of serving quality seafood to Americans all
across the country.
f
IN MEMORY OF T. BOONE PICKENS
HON. JOHN B. LARSON
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Madam
Speaker, the nation lost a great man, with the
passing of T. Boone Pickens.
He was down to Earth and comfortable in
his own skin, no matter where he was; wheth-
er in a board room making corporate decisions
or out in the public meeting people. He was
plain-spoken and right to the point. He was
willing to put his reputation and money behind
finding solutions for energy independence and
addressing climate change.
I first got to know T. Boone Pickens over 10
years ago when I was on the Select Com-
mittee for Energy Independence and Global
Warming. We invited him to Connecticut to
speak with engineers at United Technologies,
and experts at Connecticut Center for Ad-
vanced Technology, Eversource, and FuelCell
Energy. But he was also just as at home in
East Hartford, CT talking with people at Augie
& Ray’s. T. Boone Pickens had a very facile
mind. His philosophy could be summed up by
saying that when it comes to energy and tech-
nology solutions, and hands-on application of
what we need to be energy independent and
solve climate change, we need to be open to
not just one solution, but all of the above.
Working with T. Boone Pickens was one of
the great honors of my career. Not only will
we miss the man, but we’ll miss the vitality of
his ideas, his wit, his humor, and his perspec-
tive on life.
f
THE MODERN ASSOCIATION OF
GRADUATES TAKES SHAPE AOG
HISTORY PART III (1946–1995) SEC-
TION A
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise to in-
clude in the RECORD section A of the third in-
stallment of an article by Keith J. Hamel hon-
oring the 150th Anniversary of the West Point
Association of Graduates:
‘‘For the first 30 or so years of its existence
(1869–1900), the Association of the Graduates
of the U.S. Military Academy barely resem-
bled the WPAOG that West Point graduates
know today. Back then, its mission was ‘‘. . .
to cherish the memories of our Alma Mater,
and to promote the social intercourse and
fraternal fellowship of its graduates;’’ its ac-
tivities consisted of an annual meeting and
the publishing of an annual report (domi-
nated by a ‘‘Necrology’’ section of obituaries
for those graduates who died the previous
year); and its finances primarily relied on an
estate gift from George Cullum, Class of 1833,
who bequeathed $250,000 to build the Memo-
rial Hall that bears his name and left $10,000
to fund ‘‘the current and necessary ex-
penses’’ of the nascent Association. In its
second stage of existence (1901–45), changes
to AOG’s mission, governance, and oper-
ations signaled its desire to become more
like a contemporary alumni association.
Some of the initiatives from that era in-
cluded ‘‘Alumni Day,’’ featuring a wreath-
laying ceremony at Thayer Statue that is
still practiced nearly 100 years later; the
‘‘Stained Glass Windows’’ project, a pre-
cursor to Class Giving, where classes pur-
chased windows in the Cadet Chapel (with
some classes also purchasing a panel for a
class that graduated 100 years earlier which
had no living members); and the introduc-
tion of ASSEMBLY magazine, which re-
placed the Annual Report with a quarterly
publication chronicling news involving West
Point cadets, faculty, and alumni. The third
part of WPAOG’s history (1946–95) begins
with the founding of the West Point Alumni
Foundation and continues through the open-
ing of Herbert Alumni Center, the current
home of the West Point Association of Grad-
uates, the modern alumni association with
which all graduates are familiar today.
WEST POINT ALUMNI FOUNDATION
The West Point Alumni Foundation, Inc.
(WPAF) was founded on December 26, 1945 by
trustees of the much older Association of
Graduates. In the years immediately pre-
ceding WPAF’s founding, the financial condi-
tion of AOG was dangerously close to run-
ning in the red. Other than the annual yield
from an $100,000 endowment, AOG’s only in-
come source was the one-time $15 initiation
fee it charged for membership, which in-
cluded a lifetime subscription to the re-
cently launched ASSEMBLY magazine
(April 1942). Unfortunately, printing and
mailing costs had escalated to such an ex-
tent during World War II that it was impos-
sible to continue issuing ASSEMBLY on the
support of membership fees alone. Looking
at ways to increase revenues for the organi-
zation and save its new alumni magazine,
the AOG Board of Trustees considered pub-
lishing a ‘‘Register of Graduates’’ similar to
the one the U.S. Naval Academy’s graduate
association had been publishing since the
mid-1930s. Not only would it raise funds
through subscriptions, this new annual Reg-
ister (different than the decennially pub-
lished Biographical Register that Cullum
had started in 1868 and that AOG had contin-
ued through Volume IX [1940–50]) would gen-
erate revenue from advertisements in the
new publication. As AOG President Robert
M. Danford, Class of 1904, noted in his letter
for the July 1946 issue of ASSEMBLY, ‘‘The
publication of this Register, if we may judge
by that of the Naval Academy, should give
us an additional, material, and much needed
source of revenue for the Association.’’
There was, however, one rather larger stick-
ing point to the AOG’s plan.
At this point in time, AOG’s Secretary and
Treasurer (who was also the Editor of AS-
SEMBLY) was an active duty officer who
also served in the Office of the Super-
intendent as the Academy’s Alumni Sec-
retary. According to the provisions of the
annual Army appropriations bill, ‘‘No appro-
priation for the pay of the Army shall be
available for the pay of any officer or en-
listed on the active list of the Army who is
engaged in any manner with any publication
. . . which carries paid advertising of firms
doing business with the War Department.’’
AOG was, in essence, a quasi-government
staff section of USMA, and, as long as AOG
had an active duty officer on its staff, it was
prohibited from soliciting advertisers for its
publications.
To solve this dilemma, Danford and
Chauncey Fenton, also from the Class of
1904, who were members of the AOG Board of
Trustees, pushed for the formation of a sepa-
rate corporation, that became the West
Point Alumni Foundation (WPAF), which
was to be operated entirely by persons not
on the active list of the Army. According to
Michael Krisman, WPAF’s last Executive
Manager, the purpose of WPAF was multi-
fold: ‘‘To acquire and disseminate informa-
tion on the history, activities, objectives and
methods of the United States Military Acad-
emy, and its place in the National Defense
organization of the United States; to ac-
quire, preserve, and disseminate historical
materials relating to it and the Armed
Forces of the Nation; to encourage and foster
the study of military and naval science; to
promote the advancement and diffusion of
knowledge among worthy [youths] in prepa-
ration for entrance to West Point or other
military or naval schools; to receive, pro-
vide, and maintain funds and apply the in-
come therefrom in furtherance of these pur-
poses.’’
WPAF was first established as a Maryland
corporation, but on August 6, 1946, New York
authorized its request to do business in the
state as a foreign corporation—with a gov-
erning board of nine officers and directors,
no membership other than its Board, a paid
staff of civilians and retired military, and a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K18SE8.001 E18SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1168 September 18, 2019
headquarters in New York City (with a sat-
ellite office in Cullum Hall). The first Reg-
ister, with Danford as its editor, was pub-
lished shortly thereafter. It contained short
biographical briefs of 16,161 graduates and
listed 7,847 former cadets. It also contained
well over 100 advertisements, everything
from full-page spreads by Curtiss-Wright
Corporation and Coca-Cola to one-eighth-
page, classified-type ads by Mall Portable
Power Tools and The Loesch & Green Con-
struction Company. What’s more, in the
‘‘Acknowledgements’’ section of the inau-
gural Register, the officers and directors of
WPAF recognized, ‘‘with grateful apprecia-
tion,’’ all the advertisers who published in
the Register and ‘‘urge[d] their patronage
upon our subscribers.’’ The 1946 Register also
placed a half-page, in-house ad on page 338
that said, ‘‘The West Point Alumni Founda-
tion, Inc., wishes to take this opportunity to
express its sincere appreciation to the adver-
tisers in this, the 1946 Register of Graduates
of the United States Military Academy, for
their part in making possible the production
of this volume.’’
WPAF was evidently staking its fortunes,
and those of AOG, on advertising, now and in
the future. According to a report in the Jan-
uary 18, 1946 edition of ASSEMBLY, AOG ex-
pected that the advertising included in the
Register would provide ‘‘a greatly desired
and needed source of revenue,’’ and, in that
first year, funds received through WPAF in-
creased AOG’s income sheet $5,807.64, nearly
a 40 percent rise from 1946’s number. Yet, de-
spite this apparent surge in revenue, the con-
tinually rising costs of paper, printing, labor
and shipping threatened the solvency of the
Association and forced the AOG Board of
Trustees to end the lifetime membership
benefit and to institute subscription rates
for ASSEMBLY, starting with the October
1947 issue. Even with this move, the balance
sheet was still bleak. In July 1948, Fenton,
now AOG President, remarked, ‘‘A subscrip-
tion for both ASSEMBLY and the Register
at $3 gives the Association a profit of 74
cents; a subscription to ASSEMBLY alone at
$1.50 gives a deficit of 46 cents.’’
TAX-EXEMPT DONATIONS
Help came from an unexpected source: the
Internal Revenue Service. In a letter dated
December 1, 1948, the Commissioner of the
IRS granted tax-exempt status to the Asso-
ciation, confirming that gifts to AOG for
operational purposes could now be deducted
from the income tax of the donor. Interest-
ingly, it was WPAF’s purpose statement,
which AOG later adopted in modified form at
its June 1949 annual meeting, that allowed
AOG to receive its IRS privilege. AOG’s new
mission now stated, ‘‘The objects of the As-
sociation shall be to acquire and disseminate
information on the history, activities, objec-
tives and methods of the United States Mili-
tary Academy; to acquire, and preserve his-
torical materials relating to that institu-
tion; and to encourage and foster the study
of military science there by worthy
[youths].’’ Not being religious, charitable, or
scientific, AOG needed to alter the Associa-
tion’s purpose to emphasize the ‘‘acquiring
and disseminating information on USMA’’ to
ensure tax-exempt status as an ‘‘educational
society.’’
Just one month after receiving its good
news, AOG put out an appeal in the January
1949 issue of ASSEMBLY with an article ti-
tled ‘‘All West Pointers, Attention!’’ asking
graduates for financial assistance, claiming
that the ‘‘war classes have greatly increased
the size of the Association, new activities
have been undertaken, and the cost of labor
and materials and everything else has sky-
rocketed.’’ The second paragraph of that ap-
peal reads, ‘‘Contributions, gifts and be-
quests to the Association of Graduates are
now tax-deductible under the Federal In-
come Tax, Gift Tax, and Estate Tax laws.’’
According to the article, greater income was
needed for ‘‘Expansion in office facilities,
equipment and number of personnel for the
office of the Association at West Point.’’
While the primary focus was AOG, the arti-
cle ended by noting that, ultimately, ‘‘Your
gifts . . . will be of great benefit to West
Point.’’ This last point was reinforced in a
January 1950 letter by Fenton, written from
his role as Chairman of the Association’s
Fund Raising [sic] Committee, in which he
explained AOG’s needs but also stated that
giving to the Association provides ‘‘an op-
portunity to invest in our Alma Mater.’’
Granted, AOG already benefited the Acad-
emy by maintaining graduate records for
USMA’s reference, by providing information
to local West Point Societies about USMA
activities so that it could recruit prospective
cadets through graduates, and by recent ini-
tiatives such as the Thayer Award (first
given in March 1958), but could the ’49 fund-
raising appeal unconsciously have been sug-
gesting something more? Major General Gar-
rison ‘‘Gar’’ Davidson ’27, the 44th West
Point Superintendent, seemed to think so
and envisioned a future in which AOG could
directly assist West Point financially. In a
speech before West Point Society members
on September 26, 1958, Davidson said, ‘‘There
are quite a few facilities that are necessary
at the Military Academy for which it is prob-
able that appropriated funds will not be
available in the foreseeable future.’’ Earlier,
he had asked the AOG Board of Trustees to
hire a Kansas City survey firm to conduct a
fundraising campaign feasibility study. The
Fall 1958 issue of ASSEMBLY briefly ref-
erences the survey stating, ‘‘At press time
there was little information available except
the fact that generally the alumni strongly
favor such a campaign.’’ Indeed, the firm
later recommended that West Point, through
AOG, conduct a 19-month, $3 million cam-
paign for facilities at the Academy. Yet, An-
thony McAuliffe, Class of 1919, President of
the Association, rejected the proposal, fear-
ing that such a fundraising effort would put
AOG’s relatively recent tax-exempt status in
jeopardy.
WEST POINT SUPERINTENDENT’S FUND
Davidson’s successor, Major General Wil-
liam C. Westmoreland ’36, also saw opportu-
nities in asking graduates to financially sup-
port the Academy, but instead of approach-
ing AOG he turned to WPAF as the organiza-
tion best able to assist him. After all, the
last sentence of WPAF’s mission statement
read, ‘‘. . . to receive, provide, and maintain
funds and apply the income therefrom in fur-
therance of [the United States Military
Academy].’’ In the spring of 1961, shortly be-
fore June Week, a group of senior graduates,
headed by Lucius D. Clay, Class of 1918 June,
and George Olmsted ’22, met in New York
City to hear from Westmoreland what spe-
cial needs the Military Academy had that
could not be met from appropriated or other
fund sources.
The result of this meeting was the estab-
lishment of the West Point Superintendent’s
Fund. During the formative stages of the
Fund, Westmoreland visited Congress and
discussed the proposed endowment with lead-
ers of the Armed Services and Appropria-
tions Committees, who reacted positively to
the idea of soliciting private donations for
what Westmoreland called, ‘‘nice-to-have fa-
cilities for the Academy and for use by the
Corps of Cadets,’’ later defined by Major
General James B. Lampert ’36, West Point’s
46th Superintendent, as ‘‘worthwhile
projects which have a direct bearing on cadet
welfare.’’ In a WPAF brochure outlining the
goals of the Fund and addressing questions
raised by graduates, Clay wrote the fol-
lowing: ‘‘Today, the alumni of other schools
and colleges, including state-supported
schools, give heavily and gladly to their
schools and in doing so become more deeply
interested than ever . . . Become a part of
West Point’s development and future.’’
General Robert E. Wood, Class of 1900, one
of four ‘‘Honorary Advisors’’ of the West
Point Superintendent’s Fund Committee
(along with Douglas MacArthur, Class of
1903; Dwight Eisenhower, and Omar Bradley,
both Class of 1915) made the initial contribu-
tion to the Fund. After one year, the Fund
raised nearly $100,000 toward its $1 million
goal from 92 graduate donors, 29 of whom
gave more than $1,000. According to the min-
utes of AOG’s 93rd Annual Meeting, some of
this early money went to install a ski lift, to
partially pay for work being done on the
First Class Club (the old Ordnance Com-
pound), to improve the echo division of the
Cadet Chapel organ, and to meet the ex-
penses of three cadets who were selected to
take part in Operations Crossroads-Africa (a
practice that continues today in the form of
AIADs). Clay, Chairman of the Fund Com-
mittee, publicly suggested that graduates
give an annual contribution of one dollar for
every year since their graduation. True to
form, at a birthday party celebrating his
102nd birthday in the spring of 1962, Henry
Hodges Jr., Class of 1881, West Point’s oldest
living graduate, presented Charles N.
Branham ’22, Secretary-Treasurer of the
Fund, with a gift of $81, while Lieutenant
John F. McLaughlin ’61, the Long Gray
Line’s youngest graduate, gave $1.
Early publicity for the West Point Super-
intendent’s Fund went to great lengths to es-
tablish that this new fund should be viewed
as separate from AOG’s annual request. ‘‘The
Association of Graduates is alumni-oriented
and its fund-raising [sic] efforts are gen-
erally directed toward awards and other
alumni activities in the fields of education
and history,’’ stated an article in the Sum-
mer 1961 issue of ASSEMBLY. Nine months
earlier, in the Fall 1961 issue, Westmoreland
addressed the matter in his regular Super-
intendent’s letter, writing, ‘‘The Super-
intendent’s Fund, on the other hand, pro-
vides a development fund which, through its
listing of specific additional educational and
extracurricular projects, will stimulate in-
terest, guide donors into giving for useful
purposes, provide an organized approach to
such giving, and thus encourage contribu-
tions.’’ Coincidentally, just as the Super-
intendent’s Fund was being established, AOG
received the sum of $1 million from the will
of Agnes Pierce, widow of Palmer Pierce,
Class of 1891, who served as AOG Treasurer
(1905–07), President (1931–34), and Trustee
(1938 until his death in 1940). Listed in AOG
financial report as the ‘‘Palmer E. Pierce
Memorial Fund,’’ the terms of the gift sim-
ply stated that ‘‘the Trustees of the Associa-
tion shall in due course establish a suitable
memorial in memory of my late husband.
. . .’’ With no restrictions on the gift, AOG
invested the money in U.S. Treasury bills,
earning $18,479 in interest in the first year,
and eventually used it to build the semi-cir-
cular dining room extension of the West
Point Club. In 1962, another graduate, Gil-
bert Youngberg, Class of 1900, left $50,000 for
AOG in his will, which the Association also
deposited in its Endowment Fund.
By the mid-1960s, both AOG and WPAF
were humming along, each doing what it did
best. According to the report ‘‘Two Decades
of Change,’’ written in 1992 by AOG’s first
Executive Vice President, Robert Lamb Jr.
’46, ‘‘WPAF, acting through is its fundraising
committee, annually conducted a relatively
low-key private fundraising program for the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE8.001 E18SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1169
September 18, 2019
Academy (which was renamed ‘‘The West
Point Fund’’ in 1969) and served as the pub-
lisher of two alumni publications (ASSEM-
BLY and the Register of Graduates), while
AOG conducted alumni events (such as class
reunions), operated a catalogue gift shop,
maintained historical and biographical
records on graduates, solicited funds for its
annual appeal (supplemental AOG operating
funds), and exercised editorial responsibility
for ASSEMBLY.’’ While separate entities,
the relationship between AOG and WPAF
was actually synergistic: AOG represented
the graduates from which most of the funds
raised WPAF came, and WPAF solicited ad-
vertising for AOG’s publications, which the
Association could not do given the active
duty officer serving as its Secretary-Treas-
urer.’’
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JAMES E. CLYBURN
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
able to cast my votes on the following dates,
September 9 through 12, due to a family
emergency. Had I been present, I would have
voted: ‘‘yea’’ roll call no. 515; ‘‘yea’’ roll call
no. 516; ‘‘yea’’ roll call no. 517; ‘‘yea’’ roll call
no. 518; ‘‘yea’’ roll call no. 519; ‘‘nay’’ roll call
no. 520; ‘‘yea’’ roll call no. 521; ‘‘nay’’ roll call
no. 522; ‘‘nay’’ roll call no. 523; ‘‘nay’’ roll call
no. 524; ‘‘yea’’ roll call no. 525; ‘‘nay’’ roll call
no. 526; ‘‘nay’’ roll call no. 527; ‘‘nay’’ roll call
no. 528; ‘‘nay’’ roll call no. 529; and ‘‘yea’’ roll
call no. 530.
f
TRIBUE TO CURTIS CREEL
HON. KEVIN McCARTHY
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. MCCARTHY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Curtis Creel, the Gen-
eral Manager of the Kern County Water Agen-
cy (KCWA), whose steady hand helped guide
our community and agricultural producers
through some of the worst years of drought
that Kern County and California experienced
in recent history.
Curtis was born in Lakeview, Oregon, but
has spent most of his life in California. A grad-
uate of California State University, Humboldt,
in 1986, Curtis quickly found a position in Cali-
fornia’s Department of Water Resources
(DWR), and eventually rose to the position of
Chief of the State Water Project (SWP) Oper-
ation and Planning Branch. In March of 2005,
Curtis was hired as the Water Resources
Manager for the Kern County Water Agency
(KCWA). The KCWA contracts about 25% of
the water on the SWP system, which supports
some of the most fertile and productive agri-
cultural lands in the United States.
Promoted to KCWA General Manager in
2016, Curtis recognized the strategic impor-
tance of planning for the long-term needs of
our community. During negotiations on the
California water-related provisions of the
Water Infrastructure for Improvements to the
Nation (WIIN) Act of 2016, Curtis’ advice and
counsel was invaluable. This bipartisan law
provides increased flexibility to move water
from northern California to the Central Valley
and southern California to meet our commu-
nities’ needs, while protecting fish and the en-
vironment. He has also played a critical role in
increasing water supply reliability for our re-
gion through his support of new surface water
storage projects and enlarging existing res-
ervoirs. In addition, Curtis has served on the
Board of Directors of the State Water Contrac-
tors Association, including as president.
Most recently, Curtis played a major role in
advocating for our community as various fed-
eral and state agencies work to update the
regulations that govern water exports from the
Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta. His abil-
ity to draw on his more than 14 years of expe-
rience as a champion for the SWP at the
KCWA, combined with his technical expertise
from his time at DWR, has been crucial during
this initiative. In California, they say that ‘‘whis-
key is for drinking, and water is for fighting
over.’’ I have always been impressed by Cur-
tis’ steady hand, his soft-spoken nature, and
his continual focus on results, even when
things get heated. In his office, there is a
quote from President Theodore Roosevelt
prominently displayed that says, ‘‘Far and
away the best prize that life has to offer is the
chance to work hard at the work worth doing.’’
Curtis loved working in water management
and it was critical work worth doing.
Although bittersweet to see Curtis leave, I
know that Curtis is looking forward to spend-
ing more time with his wife, Traci, his son Mi-
chael, and his daughter Courtney and her hus-
band Joshua. Curtis can rest assured that the
planning and work he has done will continue
to put the KCWA, farmers, and our community
in the Central Valley of California in the best
position possible. On behalf of the 23rd Con-
gressional District of California, I want to thank
Curtis for his dedication over the last decade
as he helped lead our community through crip-
pling drought and fought for commonsense re-
forms to federal and state regulations to en-
sure our community received the life-sus-
taining water it needs to thrive.
f
RECOGNIZING THE UNVEILING OF
THE POW–MIA MONUMENT IN
WATERLOO, ILLINOIS
HON. MIKE BOST
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the unveiling of the POW–MIA
monument in Waterloo, Illinois this weekend.
Waterloo was named an official ‘‘POW–MIA’’
city earlier this year by the Jefferson Barracks
POW–MIA Museum.
With National POW–MIA Day occurring this
weekend, it is important to remember the
82,000 men and women who served our coun-
try and did not come home. This new monu-
ment honors the bravery and sacrifice of these
American patriots and ensures that those who
have not been accounted for remain in our
thoughts and prayers.
Madam Speaker, please join me in recog-
nizing this momentous occasion for the people
of Waterloo and the American heroes they
honor.
RECOGNIZING THE RETIREMENT
OF BOBBY AND RUTH WOOD
HON. BILLY LONG
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. LONG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the retirement of Bobby and Ruth
Wood from the Walnut Lawn Funeral Home.
After 50 years of service to the residents of
southwest Missouri, Bobby and Ruth Wood,
owners of the Walnut Lawn Funeral Home in
Springfield, Missouri, have decided to retire.
The Wood’s established Walnut Lawn Funeral
Home in 1989 and over the years have
earned their trademark ‘‘tender moments-ten-
der care.’’
The Wood’s have a long and respected his-
tory in the funeral industry. Bobby Wood start-
ed his career as a teenager, working in dif-
ferent roles at a local funeral home. Bobby
then attended the Gupton-Jones Institute of
Mortuary Science in Dallas, Texas, becoming
a first-generation licensed funeral director and
embalmer. In 1960, Bobby met his wife Ruth
who is a registered nurse and a graduate of
St. John’s School of Nursing.
Bobby and Ruth live by their trademark
‘‘tender moments-tender care.’’ Along with
being licensed funeral directors, both are pre-
need counselors and know how to tend to the
needs of those in their community. They know
how to give members of the community the
care they need in order to make them feel
comfortable in their most difficult moments.
While the Wood’s are leaving their business in
good hands with their daughter, there is no
doubt that Bobby and Ruth will be missed.
Madam Speaker, it is clear that the Wood’s
care for their community deeply and have put
in their years serving the residents of south-
west Missouri. I wish Bobby and Ruth a long
and happy retirement. It is well deserved and
well earned.
f
COMMEMORATION OF CONSTITU-
TION WEEK WITH THE CORPUS
CHRISTI DAUGHTERS OF THE
AMERICAN REVOLUTION
HON. MICHAEL CLOUD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to commemorate the 232nd anniversary of the
signing of the United States Constitution.
Thanks to the tireless efforts of the Daughters
of the American Revolution (DAR), like the
DAR Corpus Christi Chapter I represent, we
pause every year from September 17 to Sep-
tember 23 to celebrate Constitution Week.
In 1765, James Wilson stated, ‘‘Without lib-
erty, law loses its nature and its name, and
becomes oppression. Without law, liberty also
loses its nature and its name, and becomes li-
centiousness.’’ The Constitution enshrined the
timeless yet precious principles of limited gov-
ernment and protection of God-given liberties.
It not only established a nation, but it became
the foundation of a self-governing, free-people.
The United States Constitution remains as a
testament and beacon of hope to those that
do not share our freedom. One hundred and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18SE8.002 E18SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1170 September 18, 2019
sixteen congresses and forty-five presidents
later—through many challenges, our Constitu-
tion has withstood the test of time. We must
continue to guard these blessings earnestly
and never take them for granted.
This is precisely the mission of the DAR
Corpus Christi Chapter. Since its conception in
1927, the DAR Corpus Christi Chapter has
promoted citizen education and the preserva-
tion of American history. They have worked to
connect the past with the present by digitizing
genealogical records and helping others iden-
tify their patriot ancestors for the betterment
and education for our children. I know our
community joins me in thanking DAR Corpus
Christi Chapter, for their volunteer efforts to
preserve American history, promote patriotism,
and secure the values of our Constitution.
I ask my colleagues to join me, and the Cor-
pus Christi Daughters of the American Revolu-
tion Chapter, in observing Constitution Week,
and the God-given, blessings of liberty it es-
tablished.
f
RECOGNITION OF EMPLOYEES OF
THE OFFICERS AND THE INSPEC-
TOR GENERAL OF THE U.S.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
WHO HAVE REACHED 25 YEARS
OF SERVICE TO THE HOUSE AND
THE RECIPIENTS OF THE HOUSE
EMPLOYEE EXCELLENCE AWARD
AND THE OFFICERS’ AND IN-
SPECTOR GENERAL’S TEAM
PLAYER AWARD
HON. ZOE LOFGREN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, Ranking
Member RODNEY DAVIS and I wish to recog-
nize today a special group of dedicated and
exceptional employees of the Officers (Clerk
of the House, Sergeant at Arms, and Chief
Administrative Officer) and of the Inspector
General of the U.S. House of Representatives,
and congratulate those who have reached the
milestone of 25 years of service to the U.S.
House of Representatives, as well as the re-
cipients of the House Employee Excellence
Award and the Officers’ and Inspector Gen-
eral’s Team Player Award.
The House’s most important asset is its re-
markable and steadfast employees, whose
work is essential to keeping the operations
and services of the House running efficiently
and effectively. The employees we acknowl-
edge today are distinguished by their hard
work, dedication, professionalism, and team-
work; support of House Members, their staffs
and constituents, and for their daily contribu-
tions to the overall operations of the House.
These employees, whose work is often per-
formed behind the scenes, possess an exten-
sive range of responsibilities and skills that
support the legislative process, ensure the se-
curity of this great institution, maintain our
technology and service infrastructure, and
contribute to more efficient and productive
House support operations. These devoted em-
ployees have accomplished many important
things across a diverse range of activities, and
the House of Representatives, its Members,
staff, and the American public is better served
because of them.
We recognize and honor the individuals
named below for 25 years of loyal service to
the House. Collectively, the employees listed
below represent 200 years of service to the
U.S. House of Representatives.
Teresa Austin, Office of the Clerk; Donald
Berger, Office of the Chief Administrative Offi-
cer; Susan Cole, Office of the Clerk; Andrew
Elias, Office of the Chief Administrative Offi-
cer; Joe Novotny, Office of the Clerk; Melissia
Oulahyane, Office of the Chief Administrative
Officer; Michael Thames, Office of the Ser-
geant at Arms; Kenneth Wenzel, Office of the
Chief Administrative Officer.
We also recognize and congratulate the
House employees receiving the House Em-
ployee Excellence Award. This is a merit-
based award, given to one employee from
each of the House Officers’ and Inspector
General’s organizations. Selected employees
exhibited outstanding overall job performance
and displayed a willingness to go above and
beyond the requirements of their job for their
organization throughout the last year. We
honor the individuals named below for receiv-
ing this prestigious award.
Jyothi Katikanani, Office of the Clerk; Susan
Kozubski, Office of Inspector General; Ryan
Moran, Office of the Chief Administrative Offi-
cer; Brandon Spriggs, Office of the Sergeant
at Arms.
And finally, we recognize and congratulate
the House employees being presented the
Team Player Award. This award recognizes
the value the House Officers and Inspector
General place on working collaboratively
across all House organizations to strengthen
and protect the institution of the U.S. House of
Representatives. On a rotating basis, the Offi-
cers and Inspector General take turns nomi-
nating a member of another organization’s
staff who has exhibited the characteristics of a
Team Player. These awardees have dem-
onstrated a collaborative attitude, commitment
to achieving team objectives, respect and sup-
port of their teammates, and dedication to the
betterment of House operations. We honor the
individuals named below for receiving this dis-
tinguished award.
Omar Awan, Office of the Chief Administra-
tive Officer; Kevin McCumber, Office of the
Clerk; Saad Patel, Office of Inspector General;
Emily Scanlon, Office of the Sergeant at Arms.
On behalf of the entire House community, I
want to once again congratulate, acknowl-
edge, and thank these employees for their
professionalism and commitment to the U.S.
House of Representatives as a whole, and in
particular to their respective House Officer, the
Inspector General, and collaboratively across
these organizations. Their long hours, hard
work, diverse skills, and team spirit are invalu-
able, and their years of unwavering service
and dedication to the House set an example
for their colleagues and raises the bar for the
employees who will follow in their footsteps. I
applaud all our honorees, and I am proud to
stand before you and our great nation on their
behalf to recognize the importance of their
public service.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. VICENTE GONZALEZ
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I was unable to cast my vote on September
17, 2019 for Roll Call Vote 531. Had I been
present, my vote would have been the fol-
lowing: ‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call Vote 531.
f
INTRODUCTION OF AIRCRAFT
MAINTENANCE OUTSOURCING
DISCLOSURE ACT OF 2019
HON. JOHN GARAMENDI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker, today I
reintroduce the Aircraft Maintenance Outsourc-
ing Disclosure Act. I want to thank Congress-
men LEE M. ZELDIN (R–NY) and GILBERT RAY
CISNEROS, Jr. (D–CA) for their support as
original cosponsors.
Our bipartisan legislation would require air-
lines to disclose the maintenance history for
their aircraft fleets, specifically the location and
date an aircraft underwent heavy mainte-
nance. Airlines would be required to post this
information online, distribute it with tickets, and
communicate it to passengers upon request.
Airlines would also be required to report to
a new Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
database that tracks the maintenance history
of their aircraft fleets. This public database will
also indicate whether maintenance was con-
ducted in the United States or abroad; by
FAA-certified mechanics or not; or by airline
employees or third-party contractors.
Recent airline incidents raise serious con-
cerns about the increasing trend of mainte-
nance being outsourced, particularly to coun-
tries in Central America and Southeast Asia.
Foreign outsourcers do not have to be FAA-
certified and are not subject to the drug and
alcohol testing required in the United States
for mechanics. Outsourcing has eliminated
thousands of middle-class jobs in the United
States and created significant safety concerns
for passengers.
Airline passengers have the right to know if
planes are serviced by qualified mechanics in
the United States, or whether maintenance is
outsourced to foreign countries with lower
safety standards. Our bipartisan bill prioritizes
transparency for passengers and supports the
creation of new middle-class jobs in the United
States.
Madam Speaker, I urge all Members to join
us in cosponsoring the Aircraft Maintenance
Outsourcing Disclosure Act.
f
HONORING THE 100TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE LEAGUE OF
WOMEN VOTERS IN SYRACUSE
AND NEW YORK
HON. JOHN KATKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. KATKO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the 100th Anniversary of the League of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18SE8.007 E18SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1171
September 18, 2019
Women Voters in Syracuse and New York on
September 19, 2019. For 100 years, the
League of Women Voters has successfully en-
gaged and educated millions of women, pro-
moted female participation in government, and
advocated for significant public policy change.
Tracing its origins to the National American
Woman Suffrage Association, the League of
Women Voters in Syracuse and New York
was created after New York State gave
women the right to vote in 1917. Since its
founding, the League has operated as a non-
partisan organization, dedicated to educating
and empowering women voters. In the spirit of
this mission, the League of Women Voters
today puts out periodic legislative newsletters
to inform members on major public policy
issues. Additionally, the League of Women
Voters works to improve female participation
in elections by hosting voter registration
events and Get-Out-The Vote drives.
Along with improving civic education and
participation in government, the League of
Women Voters in Syracuse and New York un-
dertakes advocacy efforts at the national,
state, and local levels. As part of a national ef-
fort, the League’s first historic legislative suc-
cess came with the passage of the Sheppard-
Tower Act, which provided federal aid to ma-
ternal and child programs. Later, the League
advocated for the Social Security and Food
and Drugs Act, which passed in 1938 to re-
move hundreds of federal jobs from the spoils
system and place them under the Civil Serv-
ice. Most notably, they also lead efforts to
form the United Nations and encourage Amer-
ican participation in the organization. In rec-
ognition of the League of Women Voters’ con-
tributions to help create the United Nations, it
became the first American organization to re-
ceive a United Nations designation as a non-
governmental organization.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues
in the House join me in honoring the 100th
Anniversary of the League of Women Voters
in Syracuse and New York. Since its forma-
tion, the League has made great contributions
to empower women voters and has played a
significant role in positively shaping public pol-
icy in our country.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF HELAL
FARHAT’S APPOINTMENT TO
THE WAYNE COUNTY THIRD CIR-
CUIT COURT
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Helal Farhat on his ap-
pointment to the Wayne County Third Circuit
Bench.
Since receiving his Juris Doctor from Wayne
State University Law School in 2002, Farhat
has been an active member of the legal com-
munity. For the past 16 years, Farhat served
as the principal attorney at Farhat & Associ-
ates, a firm he established that specializes in
commercial and business litigation, criminal
law, family law, and immigration, and formerly
served as partner at Salamey & Farhat. In ad-
dition to his work as an attorney, Farhat
served as a magistrate judge on the 19th Dis-
trict Court in Dearborn. He held this position
from 2009 to 2012, and then again from 2016
until his appointment to the Wayne County
Circuit Court by Governor Whitmer on March
28, 2019.
Helal Farhat has established himself as a
pillar of the Dearborn community, earning his
impeccable reputation amongst his peers, the
legal community at large, and the judiciary
through his accomplished legal background.
Aside from serving southeast Michigan in a
professional capacity, Farhat also dedicates a
significant amount of time to charity work and
involvement with advocacy organizations. No-
tably, Farhat is the President of the Leaders
Advancing and Helping Communities, a non-
profit organization dedicated to empowering
Michigan families by supporting their social,
health, educational, and economic well-being.
Throughout all his work, Farhat displays an
overwhelming commitment to protecting the
fundamental rights of all Americans, and his
efforts have received widespread acclaim, evi-
denced through his designation as a Super
Lawyer and President of the Dearborn Bar As-
sociation.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me today in honoring Helal Farhat for his ap-
pointment to the Wayne County Circuit Court.
His legal expertise, character, and public serv-
ice experience will make him an excellent
judge who will dutifully serve the people of
Michigan.
f
HONORING CWD CHUCKY AND CWD
MAKO
HON. THEODORE E. DEUTCH
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Speaker, I am hon-
ored to rise today in recognition of two of our
country’s Military heroes, Contract Working
Dogs Chucky and Mako, who are being hon-
ored for their service with a celebration hosted
by Mission K9 Rescue and its founders:
Kristen Maurer, Louise Kastner and Bob Bry-
ant. This special event has been underwritten
by former magazine publisher and charity or-
ganizer, Mindi Rudan and attorney Debra
Rochlin.
Both CWD Chucky and CWD Mako are re-
tired explosive detonation dogs who served
our country with honor and saved countless
live throughout their service. Around the world,
our military is dependent on the valuable, self-
less, and heroic contributions of our highly
trained working dogs. These dogs faithfully
serve right alongside our service men and
women and, after a lifetime of service, many
never make it home to spend their senior
years knowing the safety and love they so de-
serve after giving so much.
Winner of Petco Foundation’s ‘‘Helping He-
roes’’ Award and ASPCA’s Henry Bergh
Founders Award in 2017, Mission K9 Rescue
is a non-profit organization whose sole pur-
pose is to rescue retiring and retired Military
Working Dogs, Contract Working Dogs and
other Dogs who’ve given so much to our
country. Mission K9 Rescue provides money,
transportation, adoption, veterinary care and
professional assistance for these retired hero
dogs. In addition, Mission K9 Rescue helps re-
home them and whenever possible reunite
them with their military handlers, many who
owe their own lives to these dogs and want to
provide that love and home.
Once again, I would like to recognize our
military heroes CWD Chucky and CWD Mako
for their service, Mission K9 Rescue for their
unbelievable service to our often forgotten
servicemembers, and to Mindi Rudan and
Debra Rochlin for their support of this event.
May they go from strength to strength.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BILL HUIZENGA
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. HUIZENGA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today regarding missed votes. Had I been
present for roll call vote number 527, On
agreeing to the Amendment of Mr. GOSAR of
Arizona, Part D Amendment No. 2 for H.R.
1146—The Arctic Cultural and Coastal Plain
Protection Act, I would of have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Had I been present for roll call vote number
528, On agreeing to the Amendment of Mr.
GOSAR of Arizona, Part D Amendment No. 3
as modified 2 for H.R. 1146—The Arctic Cul-
tural and Coastal Plain Protection Act, I would
have voted ‘‘yea.’’ Had I been present for roll
call vote number 529, On the Motion to Re-
commit with Instructions for, H.R. 1146—The
Arctic Cultural and Coastal Plain Protection
Act, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ Had I been
present for roll call vote number 530, On final
passage for, H.R. 1146—The Arctic Cultural
and Coastal Plain Protection Act, I would have
voted ‘‘nay.’’
f
RECOGNIZING WILLIAM MCVEY
HON. TIM WALBERG
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. WALBERG. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize William McVey of Jackson,
Michigan as he is posthumously presented the
Bronze Star Medal.
McVey, and his entire M4A1 Sherman tank
crew, are receiving this high honor because of
their heroism during World War II.
The crew’s story of battling enemy forces
outside Cologne, Germany was the subject of
the recent book, ‘‘Spearhead,’’ by author
Adam Makos.
Outgunned by German tanks, and facing
harrowing odds, McVey and his band of broth-
ers pushed eastward across Europe after D-
Day, gaining critical ground for Allied forces.
Our nation is forever grateful to the Greatest
Generation and soldiers like William McVey
who fought for freedom around the world.
Their actions, which came at great personal
cost, changed the course of history.
While William McVey is now gone, may this
long overdue Bronze Star serve as a reminder
for generations to come of his incredible valor
and service to the country he loved.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE8.011 E18SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1172 September 18, 2019
HONORING LIEUTENANT COLONEL
MITCHELL S. DRUCKER, U.S.
ARMY, ON HIS RETIREMENT
AFTER 24 YEARS OF SERVICE TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMER-
ICA
HON. SCOTT PERRY
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. PERRY. Madam Speaker, today I offer
my heartfelt congratulations to Mitchell S.
Drucker, a resident of Chester Springs, Penn-
sylvania, on his upcoming retirement after 24
years of dedicated service to the United
States of America.
Lieutenant Colonel (LTC) Drucker currently
serves the United States Army War College in
coordinating Army Heritage Education Center
(AHEC) Operations. He entered the United
States Army in 1995 and served in numerous
assignments and deployments across his dis-
tinguished career.
In October 1995, LTC Drucker joined the
Pennsylvania Army National Guard and be-
came a commissioned officer two years later.
In August 2002, LTC Drucker deployed to
Bosnia-Herzegovina, serving as a Battle Cap-
tain in the S–3 section and as the Liaison Offi-
cer for two joint contingent operations. After
receiving his Command of Headquarters and
Headquarters Troop (HHT) in May 2007, LTC
Drucker deployed as the Commander of HHT
to Sinai, Egypt in support of the Multinational
Forces and Observers mission. He success-
fully redeployed to the United States to begin
preparations for the next deployment.
His numerous commendations and awards,
including the Meritorious Service Medal, Army
Commendation Medal, Army Achievement
Medals, and others, are a testament to his
steadfast courage, personal integrity, tireless
work ethic and impeccable character. His en-
during legacy of service to our Nation truly is
exceptional and sets a standard for all to fol-
low; he has left a lasting impact on all of those
he has trained.
On behalf of Pennsylvania’s Tenth Congres-
sional District, I commend and congratulate
my fellow brother-in-arms, Lieutenant Colonel
Mitchell S. Drucker, upon his retirement and
for his tireless service to the United States of
America.
f
RECOGNIZING RLS AWARENESS
DAY
HON. SCOTT R. TIPTON
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. TIPTON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
on behalf of the millions of patients from
across the country suffering from Restless
Legs Syndrome, to raise awareness of this se-
verely misunderstood neurological disease.
RLS is a serious neurological disease that
devastates the lives of millions of Americans.
An estimated 12 million men, women and chil-
dren in the U.S. have RLS. Patients with RLS
experience an overwhelming, agitating and un-
controllable urge to move their legs, which can
only be relieved by moving or walking to abate
the sensation. RLS is at its strongest in the
evening and nighttime hours, severely dis-
rupting sleep. Treatment is life-long, and there
is no cure.
The sleep loss caused by RLS robs people
of the ability to work and live normally and
may lead to depression, anxiety and suicidal
thoughts. Profound sleep loss also puts peo-
ple with RLS at risk for hypertension, diabetes,
heart attack, stroke and Alzheimer’s disease.
I ask my colleagues to join me in working to
raise awareness of this devastating disease by
recognizing September 23rd as RLS Aware-
ness Day.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. MARK DeSAULNIER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. DESAULNIER. Madam Speaker, I regret
that I was unable to vote on Tuesday, Sep-
tember 17, 2019, as I was unavoidably de-
tained in my district. Had I been present, I
would have vote ‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call No. 531,
On Motion to Instruct Conferees, S. 1790, and
‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 532, On Closing Por-
tions of the Conference, S. 1790.
f
RECOGNIZING STATESVILLE BRICK
COMPANY FOR 115 YEARS OF
BUSINESS
HON. TED BUDD
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. BUDD. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Statesville Brick Company for 115
years of business.
Due to the Southeast’s unique rivers that
produce red clay deposits, North Carolina has
long been at the center of the brick making
economy. This includes companies like
Statesville Brick Company which opened its
doors in 1904. As times changed though and
the post-World War II building boom began to
slow, brick makers began closing shop, and
small, local operations transitioned into large,
interstate corporations. Statesville Brick Com-
pany, however, bucked that trend, and re-
mains at heart the same family-run operation
it was over a century ago.
For Statesville Brick Company President
and General Manager Michael Foster and Ex-
ecutive Vice President Scott Rankin, the brick
business is a generational affair. Scott’s
grandfather E.R. ‘‘Roy’’ Rankin joined the
company in 1916 and oversaw the construc-
tion of an early iteration of the firm’s plant
while Michael’s father, H.B. ‘‘Bob’’ Foster
joined as a partner in 1969. Today, Statesville
Brick Company currently employees over 90
people and their work can be found at some
of our nation’s most prestigious academic in-
stitutions such as Princeton University, Ohio
State University, and Davidson College.
Statesville Brick Company’s 115 years of
business are a source of pride for our region,
demonstrating how an operation dedicated to
high craftmanship with deep local roots can
succeed and thrive in a changing landscape.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
celebrating Statesville Brick Company for 115
years of business.
HONORING THE WORLD WAR II,
KOREAN WAR, AND VIETNAM
WAR VETERANS OF ILLINOIS
HON. MIKE QUIGLEY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the World War II, Korean War, and Viet-
nam War veterans who traveled to Wash-
ington, DC on September 18, 2019 with Honor
Flight Chicago, a program that provides World
War II, Korean War, and Vietnam War vet-
erans the opportunity to visit their memorials
on The National Mall in Washington, DC.
These memorials were built to honor their
courage and service to their country.
The American Veteran is one of our great-
est treasures. The Soldiers, Airmen, Sailors,
Marines, and Coast Guardsmen who traveled
here on September 18th answered our na-
tion’s call to service during several of its great-
est times of need. Across the world, these
brave Americans risked life and limb, gave
service and sacrificed much, all while embody-
ing what it is to be a hero. We owe them more
gratitude than can ever be expressed.
I welcome these brave veterans to Wash-
ington and to their memorials. I am proud to
include in the RECORD the names of these
men and women for all to see, hear, and rec-
ognize, and I call on my colleagues to rise and
join me in expressing gratitude.
Carl R. Anderson, Mose Arseneau, Abram I.
Becker, Frank Belletire, Robert Benjamin,
Elwood Bilse, John B. Bodoki, David R.
Breeze, I.L. Brownlow, Otha L. Brownlow,
Terry W. Cable.
Richard A. Campbell, Thomas M. Canale,
Robert A. Canchola, Roger W. Cantlin, Thom-
as A. Chambers, Daniel R. Chiarito, Tony Joe
B. Chinsio, Phillip M. Cirullo, James S. Collins,
John E. Craig, Joseph DeMarchi, Jr.
James R. DiBiase, Richard Donald Dunlap,
Andrew R. Ellicock, Jose Espinosa, Andrew
M. Ferreri, Thomas B. Ford, Robert A.
Fridrych, Richard Funfsinn, Joseph Gaberik,
Richard J. Gatz, Clelia Angelina Ginay.
Esther M. Gleaton, Paul Goldman, Thomas
F. Grabowski, Sherwin Greenberg, Richard F.
Greenwald, Robert P. Greenwald, Paul R.
Hammelman, Richard W. Heurich, Scott J.
Horvath, Robert J. Hovorka, Lloyd T. Hubbard.
Ronald J. Hunt, Ronald M. Jones, Allen K.
Jongsma, Ronnie Kimbrough, DuWayne
Klapper, Harold B. Koenen, Matthew Adam
Koswenda, Steven M. Kraslen, Peder
Kringstad, Denis F. Krzeminski, Francisco A.
LaMarca.
Sheldon C. Latz, Miles G. Leigh, Terry
Leigh, Adeline Lence, Dennis P. Lenihan,
James P. Lynch, Thomas O. Maguire, Joseph
Mallegni, Antonio E. Massa, Richard A.
Matkovich, Peter B. Mazzoni.
Joseph A. Moshure, Harry Mullins, Larry
Murphy, William Muzyka, Robert J. Nagel,
Joel Nederhood, Gary A. Nelson, William H.
Niesluchowski, Robert E. Parrott, Thomas M.
Peknik, Kenneth G. Periman.
Carl E. Peterson, Anthony Pfieffer, Jack
Primozic, Joseph Pusateri, James E. Rabjohn,
Jerome R. Raczak, John Rudowicz, Martin
Ruhland, Alphonse Scepurek, Walter T.
Schmit, James L. Shohet.
Thomas A. Shumpert, William Norbert
Siska, Andrew L. Smith, Anthony R.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18SE8.016 E18SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1173
September 18, 2019
Sorrentino, Van C. Stone, John Strauts,
Thomas H. Strossner, Edward L. Svadlenka,
William Van Loan, Sr., Dennis J. Vodvarka,
Richard P. Wherry.
Richard D. Whorton, Ronald Wiertz, Michael
A. Wood, Dennis E. Zavesky, William D. Zie-
gler, Thomas A. Zilla.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. PETER A. DeFAZIO
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, on Sep-
tember 17, 2019, I was unable to be present
for Roll Call Vote 532, on the Motion to Close
Portions of the Fiscal Year 2020 National De-
fense Authorization Act Conference.
Had I been present, I would have voted
Nay.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF RAYMOND
OSHANA
HON. JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to share my deepest condolences with
the family and friends of Raymond Oshana.
Ray was a dear friend of mine and my district
office team for over two decades, and a
prominent leader in the Assyrian community.
Ray unexpectedly passed away earlier this
week, and my heart breaks for his wife, Nadia,
and his children Pierre, Ninos, and Mary, and
everyone in the community who feels the
weight of his passing, including me. His exu-
berant personality and generosity touched ev-
eryone he met, and anyone who knew Ray
was better for it. He will be missed deeply.
Born in Baghdad in 1951, Ray came to the
United States as a young man in 1970. Ray’s
story and contributions exemplify the fact that
immigration makes our nation and our commu-
nities stronger and better. Shortly after arriving
in the United States, Ray started the Assyrian
Athletic Club. This club has supported thou-
sands of Assyrian youth since its inception
and next year, the organization will celebrate
its 50th anniversary. During this same period,
Ray helped found a group called the East Bird
Band, helping create an iconic Assyrian Na-
tionalist song, despite the fact that the band
members didn’t know how to play musical in-
struments in the beginning.
Ray was an active member of dozens of
civic organizations including the Assyrian
American Association of Chicago, and he was
the Midwest Regional Director for the Assyrian
American National Federation at the time of
his passing. His name and contributions were
known by everyone in the Assyrian commu-
nity, and my office and I worked closely with
him and the community in the 9th Congres-
sional District on many issues and projects.
Ray Oshana had a smile and personality
that brightened every room he entered. He
was one of the kindest people I have ever
met, and I looked forward to each opportunity
that he and I had to sit down and talk about
our families and what we could do to help As-
syrians here in Illinois and back in the Middle
East, where they face many deadly chal-
lenges. Ray was a lifelong fighter for and an
effective advocate on behalf of his community.
On behalf of a grateful nation, I thank Ray-
mond Oshana for his tireless work. We will
miss him.
f
REMEMBERING UNDERSHERIFF
STEPHEN B. MCLOUD
HON. JOHN KATKO
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. KATKO. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
remember the life of Undersheriff Stephen B.
McLoud, a loving husband, father, and grand-
father, and a devoted public servant, who
passed away on August 29, 2019. For nearly
25 years, Undersheriff McLoud worked in law
enforcement, selflessly dedicating his life to
service of those in our community and nation.
A lifelong member of the Central New York
community, Undersheriff McLoud graduated
from Weedsport Central High School and from
Cayuga Community College with an associate
degree in criminal justice. After college,
Undersheriff McLoud became the first full-time
police officer for the Village of Weedsport. In
1983, Undersheriff McLoud joined the Cayuga
County Sheriffs Office, starting as a patrol
deputy. From there, Undersheriff McLoud was
promoted to investigator in 1991 and again to
Undersheriff in 2003. He held this position
until retiring in 2006.
Along with Undersheriff McLoud’s work in
law enforcement, he was also a 35-year mem-
ber of the Weedsport Volunteer Fire Depart-
ment. Additionally, he served with the Finger
Lakes Drug Task Force and as a Cayuga
County Fire Investigator.
Following the attacks on the World Trade
Center on September 11th, Undersheriff
McLoud bravely traveled to New York City to
assist in search and rescue efforts at Ground
Zero. Tragically, Undersheriff McLoud devel-
oped an illness stemming from his work to aid
in the emergency recovery efforts.
Outside of his work in public service, Under-
sheriff McLoud was a member of the
Weedsport Presbyterian Church, a former
member of the Brutus Town Board, and owner
of Oakland Acres Firewood, a family operated
firewood and land management company.
Undersheriff McLoud was also an avid out-
doorsman, and a loving family man who cared
deeply for his wife, children, and grand-
children.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues
in the House join me in honoring the life of
Undersheriff Stephen B. McLoud. A lifelong
public servant and beloved member of our
Central New York community, Undersheriff
McLoud will be dearly missed. I ask my col-
leagues to keep him and his family in mind as
we remember the selfless contributions he has
made to our community and country.
f
HONORING ALISON CUNNINGHAM,
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF CO-
LUMBUS HOUSE
HON. ROSA L. DeLAURO
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, it is an
honor for me to rise today to join friends, fam-
ily, colleagues, and community leaders who
have gathered today to celebrate Alison
Cunningham as she bids farewell to Columbus
House, the organization she has fearlessly
and adeptly led for more than two decades.
There is no one reason why an individual
becomes homeless and so there is no one so-
lution that will end it. More than three decades
ago a group of folks concerned with the plight
of the homeless came together and began
what has become one of the strongest, most
respected advocacy organizations for the
homeless in our state. For most of its exist-
ence, the mission of Columbus House has
been guided by Alison Cunningham, whose
unparalleled passion to make a difference is
reflected in every success they enjoy. Alison’s
commitment is nothing short of inspiring and it
has encouraged hundreds of supporters to
volunteer their time and energy to support this
extraordinary organization.
Under Alison’s direction, Columbus House
has continued to grow and expand to meet the
ever-changing needs of our homeless popu-
lation. Today, the small staff of ninety come
from all walks of life—many are former clients
themselves which provides them a unique per-
spective not only from which to provide serv-
ices, but also to direct the organization’s ef-
forts. Columbus House also partners with a
variety of local service agencies with the goal
of ensuring that all of their clients receive ac-
cess to every possible opportunity to transition
from homelessness. With facilities in New
Haven and Middletown and a presence in Wa-
terbury, New Britain and elsewhere, programs
and services that range from shelter and meal
service to employment, recovery, and case
management, Columbus House has touched
the lives of hundreds of our most vulnerable
citizens. Columbus House is a community ef-
fort in every sense of the word, and it is be-
cause of the strong leadership and vision that
Alison has provided. I have been proud to
work with her during my tenure in Congress
and consider myself fortunate to call her my
friend.
Over the course of her career, Alison has
grown into a respected leader in her field with
her expertise often be sought out by neigh-
boring communities as well as elected leaders.
In fact, over the last several years, she has
been a member of the task force that directed
a state-wide change to a successful approach
to ending chronic homelessness, which com-
bines providing permanent housing with the
necessary social services on site for clients.
To say her everyday presence at Columbus
House will be missed is an understatement,
however, I have no doubt that, though she is
pursuing a new opportunity, Alison will remain
a staunch and active supporter of Columbus
House and the people they serve.
Though I will miss her leadership at Colum-
bus House, I was excited to learn that Alison
will be taking on a new and unique role at the
Yale Divinity School where she will help guide
students there interested in the kind of non-
profit work to which she has dedicated her
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A18SE8.020 E18SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1174 September 18, 2019
professional life. Her students will be learning
from one of the best and that can only benefit
those non-profits that they will eventually lead.
It is my great honor to stand today to extend
my deepest thanks and appreciation to Alison
Cunningham for the visionary leadership and
tireless advocacy she has brought to Colum-
bus House, the City of New Haven and the
State of Connecticut. I wish her all the best in
this new endeavor and have no doubt that it
will be a great success.
f
CONGDON STREET BAPTIST
CHURCH BICENTENNIAL
HON. JAMES R. LANGEVIN
OF RHODE ISLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Speaker, I rise with
my colleague, Congressman DAVID CICILLINE,
to celebrate the bicentennial of the Congdon
Street Baptist Church. Over the last 200
years, the church has been a pillar of the
black community in Providence, serving as a
place of worship, education, and fellowship for
Providence residents.
From its founding, the church has thrived in
the face of adversity. In 1819, under the back-
drop of racial segregation and slavery, a small
group of residents came together to create a
safe space for black members of the Provi-
dence community. In 1869, hostile neighbors
had the church demolished. Nonetheless, the
community rallied together to rebuild the
church in 1875, and it was added to the Na-
tional Register of Historic Places in 1971.
Over the years, the church has continued to
carry out the mission of its founders: sup-
porting civil rights for the black community. In
1968, the church became a sanctuary for
black students at Brown University and Pem-
broke College during the student walkout, and
during the 1960s, members of the congrega-
tion marched down Cranston Street with Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr., in the fight for equal
rights.
On its 200th anniversary, we reflect on the
Congdon Street Baptist Church’s incredible
history and wish the church another 200 years
of success in connecting community members
to their faith and to one another.
f
CELEBRATING MR. JAMES TURN-
ER’S 85TH BIRTHDAY AND 45
YEARS OF TEACHING AT LIB-
ERTY HIGH SCHOOL
HON. BRIAN BABIN
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. BABIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
celebrate Mr. James ‘‘Coach T’’ Turner, on his
85th birthday as well as recognize his 45
years of teaching at Liberty High School.
Mr. Turner was born and raised in Liberty,
Texas. Upon graduating from West Liberty
High School in 1954, he was named valedic-
torian and subsequently received a full schol-
arship to Grambling State University in Gram-
bling, Louisiana. After earning his master’s de-
gree from Texas Southern University, he trav-
eled back to his hometown where he began
teaching and coaching at West Liberty High
School. During his time there, he was named
Liberty ISD Secondary Teacher of the Year
once and Liberty High School Teacher of the
Year nine times. While instructing students, he
coached the University Interscholastic League
(U.I.L.) high school team for math, calculator,
and number sense for 17 years. As a U.I.L.
coach, he was awarded the U.I.L. South-
western Bell Academic Sponsor Excellence
Award and the Texas Math and Science
Coaches Association Salute for U.I.L. Excel-
lence Award for his outstanding contributions
to the team and to his students. Mr. Turner
also received the City of Ames Award for de-
voted years of service to West Liberty High
and Elementary Schools.
While attending graduate classes at Texas
Southern University, Mr. Turner met the love
of his life, Mrs. Dorothy Robbins Turner. Dur-
ing their more than 51 years of marriage, they
raised one son, Mr. Dedric James Turner.
Dedric followed in his dad’s footsteps by be-
coming a math teacher—leading the math de-
partment at C.E. King High School—and ath-
letic and academic coach. However, he now
works for the ExxonMobil corporation.
Throughout his life, Mr. James Turner has
continuously made significant contributions to
his Southeast Texas community, and it is an
honor to recognize him for his outstanding
dedication to his fellow citizens.
Madam Speaker, it is because of excellent
citizens like Mr. Turner that we have wonderful
role models for the next generation of students
to aspire to. I am proud that Mr. Turner is a
constituent of Texas’s 36th Congressional dis-
trict, and I am thankful for the positive impact
he has made in the lives of students. I ap-
plaud Mr. Turner for his many accomplish-
ments, and I wish him a very happy 85th birth-
day and congratulations on his 45 years of
teaching.
f
TRIBUTE TO THE HIGH PLAINS
HONOR FLIGHT
HON. JOE NEGUSE
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Mr. NEGUSE. Madam Speaker, I recognize
the participation of 120 veterans from Northern
Colorado who visited Washington DC this past
weekend with the High Plains Honor Flight. I
am tremendously grateful each of these indi-
viduals had the opportunity to visit the memo-
rials built in their honor in our nation’s capital
and to be recognized for their service to our
country. With strong courage of conviction,
these veterans took flight from Loveland, Colo-
rado and traveled to Washington, DC to visit
the memorials which recognize their contribu-
tions to our nation and world.
The Northern Colorado community, as well
as the American people, extend a debt of grat-
itude to these veterans and all of their fellow
service members for their service and for all
they have done to maintain and preserve the
rights of the American people at home and
promote peace and democracy abroad.
I commend High Plains Honor Flight for
continuing the work of Honor Flight Northern
Colorado and advancing their effort to serve
and honor the veterans of Colorado. I know I
join with all my fellow Coloradans who wit-
nessed their departure in expressing our grati-
tude and recognition of this historic Honor
Flight.
These veterans, above all, understand the
gravity of the sacrifices that Washington, DC’s
memorials document, and I am grateful they
had the opportunity to visit these monuments
in-person, both to reflect on the enormous
service they contributed to our nation and to
pay respect to the fallen soldiers on behalf of
each of us.
I send my sincerest gratitude to the partici-
pants of the High Plains Honor Flight for all
they have done for our Northern Colorado
community and for the American people. Their
service will never be forgotten.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
September 19, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
SEPTEMBER 24
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of the Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agen-
cies
Business meeting to markup an original
bill making appropriations for the De-
partment of the Interior, the Environ-
mental Protection Agency, and Related
Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
SD–124
10 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies
Business meeting to markup an original
bill making appropriations for the De-
partment of Commerce, the Depart-
ment of Justice, Science, and Related
Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020.
SD–192
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nation of Eugene Scalia, of Virginia, to
be Secretary of Labor.
SD–430
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Subcommittee on Aviation and Space
To hold hearings to examine improving
air traffic control for the American
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A18SE8.024 E18SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1175
September 18, 2019
people, focusing on examining the cur-
rent system.
SD–562
Committee on Foreign Relations
Subcommittee on Near East, South Asia,
Central Asia, and Counterterrorism
To hold hearings to examine key findings
from the Syria Study Group report.
SD–419
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition
Policy and Consumer Rights
To hold hearings to examine competition
in digital technology markets, focusing
on acquisitions of nascent or potential
competitors by digital platforms.
SD–226
SEPTEMBER 25
10 a.m.
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry
To hold hearings to examine perspectives
on the livestock and poultry sectors.
SD–106
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine facilitating
faster payments in the United States.
SD–538
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine fishery fail-
ures, focusing on improving the dis-
aster declaration and relief process.
SH–216
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine pending
nominations.
SD–226
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
To hold hearings to examine toxic expo-
sure, focusing on examining the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs’s pre-
sumptive disability decision-making
process.
SR–418
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold hearings to examine United
States policy in Mexico and Central
America, focusing on ensuring effective
policies to address the crisis at the bor-
der.
SD–419
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity
To receive a closed briefing on Depart-
ment of Defense cyber operations.
SVC–217
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear
Safety
To hold hearings to examine reducing
emissions while driving economic
growth, focusing on industry-led initia-
tives.
SD–406
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine countering
domestic terrorism, focusing on the
evolving threat.
SD–342
Special Committee on Aging
To hold hearings to examine promoting
healthy aging, focusing on living your
best life long into your golden years.
SD–562
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M18SE8.000 E18SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1025
Wednesday, September 18, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S5547–S5582
Measures Introduced: Fifteen bills and three reso-
lutions were introduced, as follows: S. 2494–2508,
and S. Res. 316–318. Pages S5577–78
Measures Reported:
Special Report entitled ‘‘Revised Allocation to
Subcommittees of Budget Totals for Fiscal Year
2020’’. (S. Rept. No. 116–106) Page S5573
Measures Considered:
Labor, Health and Human Services, Education,
Defense, State, Foreign Operations, and Energy
and Water Development Appropriations Act:
Senate resumed consideration of the motion to pro-
ceed to consideration of H.R. 2740, making appro-
priations for the Departments of Labor, Health and
Human Services, and Education, and related agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020.
Pages S5553–62
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 51 yeas to 44 nays (Vote No. 292), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, not having
voted in the affirmative, Senate rejected the motion
to close further debate on the motion to proceed to
consideration of the bill. Pages S5561–62
Subsequently, Senator McConnell entered a mo-
tion to reconsider the vote by which cloture was not
invoked on the motion to proceed to consideration
of the bill. Page S5562
House Messages:
National Defense Authorization Act—Agree-
ment: Senate began consideration of the amendment
of the House of Representatives to S. 1790, to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe military per-
sonnel strengths for such fiscal year, taking action on
the following motions proposed thereto:
Pages S5562–70
Adopted:
McConnell motion to disagree in the amendment
of the House of Representatives, agree to the request
of the House of Representatives for a conference, and
authorize the Chair to appoint conferees on the part
of the Senate. Pages S5562–63
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 87 yeas to 7 nays (Vote No. 293), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, having
voted in the affirmative, Senate agreed to the motion
to close further debate on McConnell motion to dis-
agree in the amendment of the House of Representa-
tives, agree to the request of the House of Rep-
resentatives for a conference, and authorize the Chair
to appoint conferees on the part of the Senate.
Pages S5569–70
The Chair was authorized to appoint the following
conferees on the part of the Senate: Senators Inhofe,
Wicker, Fischer, Cotton, Rounds, Ernst, Tillis, Sul-
livan, Perdue, Cramer, McSally, Scott (FL), Black-
burn, Hawley, Reed, Shaheen, Gillibrand,
Blumenthal, Hirono, Kaine, King, Heinrich, War-
ren, Peters, Manchin, Duckworth, and Jones.
Page S5570
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that if McConnell motion to disagree in the
amendment of the House of Representatives, agree to
the request of the House of Representatives for a
conference, and authorize the Chair to appoint con-
ferees on the part of the Senate is agreed to, it be
in order for the following motions to instruct, which
are at the desk: Senators Van Hollen, Cotton, Jones,
Schatz, Peters, McSally, McConnell or designee, to
be considered at a time to be determined by the Ma-
jority Leader, in consultation with the Democratic
Leader, but prior to Thursday, September 26, 2019,
in the form of Senate resolutions, taken up and con-
sidered on the same day with no amendments in
order. Page S5569
Executive Reports of Committees: Senate received
the following executive report of a committee:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18SE9.REC D18SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1026 September 18, 2019
Report to accompany Protocol to the North At-
lantic Treaty of 1949 on the Accession of the Re-
public of North Macedonia (Treaty Doc. 116–1) (Ex.
Rept. 116–5). Pages S5576–77
McGuire Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Brian McGuire, of
New York, to be a Deputy Under Secretary of the
Treasury. Page S5570
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur on Friday, Sep-
tember 20, 2019. Page S5570
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S5570
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination at
approximately 10:00 a.m., on Thursday, September
19, 2019. Pages S5581–82
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
By 49 yeas to 44 nays (Vote No. EX. 289), Rob-
ert A. Destro, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary
of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor.
Pages S5548–52, S5582
By 54 yeas to 38 nays (Vote No. EX. 290), Brent
James McIntosh, of Michigan, to be an Under Sec-
retary of the Treasury. Page S5552
By 55 yeas to 39 nays (Vote No. EX. 291), Brian
Callanan, of New Jersey, to be General Counsel for
the Department of the Treasury. Pages S5552–53
Messages from the House: Pages S5572–73
Measures Referred: Page S5573
Executive Reports of Committees: Pages S5573–77
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S5578–79
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Additional Statements: Page S5572
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S5581
Privileges of the Floor: Page S5581
Record Votes: Five record votes were taken today.
(Total—293) Pages S5552–53, S5562, S5570
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 7:09 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Thursday,
September 19, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the
remarks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S5582.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
MASS VIOLENCE, EXTREMISM, AND
DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine mass vi-
olence, extremism, and digital responsibility, after
receiving testimony from Monika Bickert, Facebook,
Menlo Park, California; Nick Pickles, Twitter, Inc.,
and Derek Slater, Google LLC, both of San Fran-
cisco, California; and George Selim, Anti-Defamation
League, Washington, D.C.
WATER RESOURCES INFRASTRUCTURE
Committee on Environment and Public Works: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine improving
American economic competitiveness through water
resources infrastructure, after receiving testimony
from Patrick O’Toole, Family Farm Alliance, Savery,
Wyoming; Jamey K. Sanders, Choctaw Transpor-
tation Company, Inc., Dyersburg, Tennessee, on be-
half of the Associated General Contractors of Amer-
ica; and Derek Brockbank, American Shore and
Beach Preservation Association, Washington, D.C.
U.S. POLICY IN THE INDO-PACIFIC REGION
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded
a hearing to examine United States policy in the
Indo-Pacific region, focusing on Hong Kong, alli-
ances and partnerships, and other issues, after receiv-
ing testimony from David Stilwell, Assistant Sec-
retary of State, Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Af-
fairs.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee ordered fa-
vorably reported the nominations of Andrew P.
Bremberg, of Virginia, to be Representative of the
United States of America to the Office of the United
Nations and Other International Organizations in
Geneva, with the rank of Ambassador, John Leslie
Carwile, of Maryland, to be Ambassador to the Re-
public of Latvia, Anthony F. Godfrey, of Virginia, to
be Ambassador to the Republic of Serbia, Erin Eliza-
beth McKee, of California, to be Ambassador to the
Independent State of Papua New Guinea, and to
serve concurrently and without additional compensa-
tion as Ambassador to the Solomon Islands and Am-
bassador to the Republic of Vanuatu, Herro Mustafa,
of California, to be Ambassador to the Republic of
Bulgaria, and routine lists in the Foreign Service.
U.S.-COLOMBIA RELATIONS
Committee on Foreign Relations: Subcommittee on
Western Hemisphere, Transnational Crime, Civilian
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18SE9.REC D18SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1027
September 18, 2019
Security, Democracy, Human Rights, and Global
Women’s Issues concluded a hearing to examine
United States-Colombia relations, focusing on new
opportunities to reinforce and strengthen the bilat-
eral relationship, after receiving testimony from
Kirsten D. Madison, Assistant Secretary for Inter-
national Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, and
Kevin M. O’Reilly, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bu-
reau of Western Hemisphere Affairs, both of the De-
partment of State; John Barsa, Assistant Adminis-
trator for Latin America and the Caribbean, United
States Agency for International Development; and
Christine Balling, Latin American Affairs, and Adri-
enne Arsht, Latin America Center, both of Wash-
ington, D.C.
TRIBAL ACCESS TO SPECTRUM
Committee on Indian Affairs: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the Government Accountability
Office report on tribal access to spectrum, focusing
on promoting communications services in Indian
country, after receiving testimony from Andrew Von
Ah, Director, Physical Infrastructure Issues, Govern-
ment Accountability Office; Donald K. Stockdale,
Jr., Chief, Wireless Telecommunications Bureau,
Federal Communications Commission; Belinda Nel-
son, Gila River Telecommunications, Inc., Chandler,
Arizona; and Kimball Sekaquaptewa, Santa Fe Indian
School, Santa Fe, New Mexico.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 25 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 4370–4394; and 5 resolutions, H.
Con. Res. 63–64; and H. Res. 561–563 were intro-
duced. Pages H7772–74
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H7774–75
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H.R. 3525, to amend the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 to direct the Commissioner of U.S. Customs
and Border Protection to establish uniform processes
for medical screening of individuals interdicted be-
tween ports of entry, and for other purposes, with an
amendment (H. Rept. 116–211). Page H7772
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Gottheimer to act as
Speaker pro tempore for today. Page H7757
Recess: The House recessed at 10:21 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H7759
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Chaplain Major General Steven
Schaick, U.S. Air Force Chief of Chaplains, The Pen-
tagon, Arlington, VA. Page H7759
Recess: The House recessed at 1:09 p.m. and recon-
vened at 1:15 p.m. Page H7766
Forced Arbitration Injustice Repeal Act—Rule
for Consideration: The House agreed to H. Res.
558, providing for consideration of the bill (H.R.
1423) to amend title 9 of the United States Code
with respect to arbitration; waiving a requirement of
clause 6(a) of rule XIII with respect to consideration
of certain resolutions reported from the Committee
on Rules; and providing for consideration of motions
to suspend the rules, by a yea-and-nay vote of 228
yeas to 196 nays, Roll No. 534, after the previous
question was ordered by a yea-and-nay vote of 228
yeas to 195 nays, Roll No. 533.
Pages H7761–65, H7766–67
Suspension—Proceedings Resumed: The House
agreed to suspend the rules and pass the following
measure. Consideration began Tuesday, September
17th.
Department of Veterans Affairs Expiring Au-
thorities Act of 2019: H.R. 4285, to amend title 38,
United States Code, to extend and modify certain
authorities and requirements relating to the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote
of 417 yeas to 1 nay, Roll No. 535. Pages H7767–68
Recess: The House recessed at 2:39 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H7771
Quorum Calls—Votes: Three yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H7766, H7766–67, and H7767–68. There
were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:31 p.m.
Committee Meetings
OVERSIGHT HEARING: MENTAL HEALTH
NEEDS OF CHILDREN IN HHS CUSTODY
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on the De-
partments of Labor, Health and Human Services,
Education, and Related Agencies held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Oversight Hearing: Mental Health Needs of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18SE9.REC D18SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1028 September 18, 2019
Children in HHS Custody’’. Testimony was heard
from the following Department of Health and
Human Services officials: Jonathan Hayes, Director,
Office of Refugee Resettlement; Ann Maxwell, As-
sistant Inspector General, Office of Inspector Gen-
eral; and Jonathan White, Commander, Public
Health Service Commissioned Corps.
SHATTERED FAMILIES, SHATTERED
SERVICE: TAKING MILITARY DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE OUT OF THE SHADOWS
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Mili-
tary Personnel held a hearing entitled ‘‘Shattered
Families, Shattered Service: Taking Military Domes-
tic Violence Out of the Shadows’’. Testimony was
heard from A.T. Johnston, Deputy Assistant Sec-
retary of Defense for Military Community and Fam-
ily Policy, Department of Defense; Kenneth Noyes,
Associate Director, Department of Defense Family
Advocacy Program (Military Family Readiness Pol-
icy), Department of Defense; and public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Education and Labor: Full Committee
held a markup on H.R. 4334, the ‘‘Dignity in
Aging Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 4301, the ‘‘School
Shooting Safety and Preparedness Act’’. H.R. 4334
and H.R. 4301 were ordered reported, as amended.
BUILDING A 100 PERCENT CLEAN
ECONOMY: PATHWAYS TO NET ZERO
INDUSTRIAL EMISSIONS
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Environment and Climate Change held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Building a 100 Percent Clean Economy:
Pathways to Net Zero Industrial Emissions’’. Testi-
mony was heard from public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee began
a markup on H.R. 123, the ‘‘FHA Additional Credit
Pilot Program Reauthorization Act’’; H.R. 132, the
‘‘North America Development Bank Improvement
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4029, the ‘‘Tribal Eligibility for
Homeless Assistance Grants Act of 2019’’; H.R.
4067, the ‘‘Financial Inclusion in Banking Act of
2019’’; H.R. 4242, the ‘‘Greater Accountability in
Pay Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4300, the ‘‘Fostering Stable
Housing Opportunities Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4302,
the ‘‘Facilitating Access to Homeless Assistance Act
of 2019’’; H.R. 4328, the ‘‘Protecting Innocent Con-
sumers Affected by a Shutdown Act’’; H.R. 4329,
the ‘‘ESG Disclosure Simplification Act of 2019’’;
legislation to amend the Securities and Exchange Act
of 1934 to allow for the SEC to seek and Federal
courts to grant restitution to investors and
disgorgement of unjust enrichment; legislation on
the 8–K Trading Gap Act of 2019; and legislation
on the Corporate Management Accountability Act of
2019.
VOICES LEADING THE NEXT GENERATION
ON THE GLOBAL CLIMATE CRISIS
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on Eu-
rope, Eurasia, Energy, and the Environment; and
Full Committee of the House Select Committee on
the Climate Crisis held a joint hearing entitled
‘‘Voices Leading the Next Generation on the Global
Climate Crisis’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
U.S. INTERESTS IN EAST ASIA AND THE
PACIFIC AND THE FY20 BUDGET
COmmittee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on Asia,
the Pacific, and Nonproliferation held a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘U.S. Interests in East Asia and the Pacific and
the FY20 Budget’’. Testimony was heard from David
Stilwell, Assistant Secretary, Bureau of East Asian
and Pacific Affairs, Department of State; and Gloria
Steele, Acting Assistant Administrator, Bureau for
Asia, U.S. Agency for International Development.
MEETING THE CHALLENGE OF WHITE
NATIONALIST TERRORISM AT HOME AND
ABROAD
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on the
Middle East, North Africa, and International Ter-
rorism; and Subcommittee on Intelligence and
Counterterrorism of the House Committee on
Homeland Security held a hearing entitled ‘‘Meeting
the Challenge of White Nationalist Terrorism at
Home and Abroad’’. Testimony was heard from pub-
lic witnesses.
OVERSIGHT OF THE SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION
Committee on House Administration: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of the Smithso-
nian Institution’’. Testimony was heard from Lonnie
G. Bunch III, Secretary, Smithsonian Institution; and
Cathy L. Helm, Inspector General, Smithsonian In-
stitution.
OVERSIGHT OF THE FOREIGN
INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE ACT
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of the Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Act’’. Testimony was heard from
Brad Wiegmann, Deputy Assistant Attorney Gen-
eral, National Security Division, Department of Jus-
tice; Michael Orlando, Deputy Assistant Director,
Counterterrorism Division, Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation; and Susan Morgan, National Security Agen-
cy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18SE9.REC D18SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1029
September 18, 2019
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Natural Resources: Full Committee held
a markup on H.R. 182, to extend the authorization
for the Cape Cod National Seashore Advisory Com-
mission; H.R. 263, to rename the Oyster Bay Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge as the Congressman Lester
Wolff Oyster Bay National Wildlife Refuge; H.R.
473, to authorize the Every Word We Utter Monu-
ment to establish a commemorative work in the Dis-
trict of Columbia and its environs, and for other
purposes; H.R. 560, the ‘‘Northern Mariana Islands
Residents Relief Act’’; H.R. 737, the ‘‘Shark Fin
Sales Elimination Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1023, the
‘‘Great Lakes Fishery Research Authorization Act of
2019’’; H.R. 1218, the ‘‘American Fisheries Advi-
sory Committee Act’’; H.R. 1314, the ‘‘Integrated
Coastal and Ocean Observation System Act Amend-
ments of 2019’’; H.R. 1380, the ‘‘Big Cat Public
Safety Act’’; H.R. 1446, the ‘‘Multinational Species
Conservation Funds Semipostal Stamp Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2189, the ‘‘Digital Coast
Act’’; H.R. 2245, the ‘‘CECIL Act’’; H.R. 2405, the
‘‘National Sea Grant College Program Amendments
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2406, the ‘‘National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Of-
ficer Corps Amendments Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2490,
to amend the National Trails System Act to direct
the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study on
the feasibility of designating the Chief Standing Bear
National Historic Trail, and for other purposes; and
H.R. 2819, the ‘‘Gold Star Families National Monu-
ment Extension Act’’. H.R. 182, H.R. 263, H.R.
737, H.R. 1023, and H.R. 1380 were ordered re-
ported, without amendment. H.R. 1218, H.R. 473,
H.R. 560, H.R. 1314, H.R. 1446, H.R. 2189, H.R.
2245, H.R. 2405, H.R. 2406, H.R. 2490, and H.R.
2819 were ordered reported, as amended.
OVERSEEING THE OVERSEERS: COUNCIL OF
THE INSPECTORS GENERAL ON INTEGRITY
AND EFFICIENCY AT 10 YEARS
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
Government Operations held a hearing entitled
‘‘Overseeing the Overseers: Council of the Inspectors
General on Integrity and Efficiency at 10 Years’’.
Testimony was heard from Kathy Buller, Inspector
General, Peace Corps, and Executive Director, Coun-
cil of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Effi-
ciency Legislation Committee; Scott Dahl, Inspector
General, Department of Labor, and Chairman, Coun-
cil of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Effi-
ciency Legislation Committee; and Michael Horo-
witz, Inspector General, Department of Justice, and
Chairman, Council of the Inspectors General on In-
tegrity and Efficiency Legislation Committee.
DEVELOPING CORE CAPABILITIES FOR
DEEP SPACE EXPLORATION: AN UPDATE
ON NASA’S SLS, ORION, AND
EXPLORATION GROUND SYSTEMS
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Sub-
committee on Space and Aeronautics held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Developing Core Capabilities for Deep
Space Exploration: An Update on NASA’s SLS,
Orion, and Exploration Ground Systems’’. Testimony
was heard from Kenneth Bowersox, Associate Ad-
ministrator (Acting), Human Exploration and Oper-
ations, National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion; Cristina Chaplain, Director, Contracting and
National Security Acquisitions, Government Ac-
countability Office; and a public witness.
THE NEXT MILE: TECHNOLOGY
PATHWAYS TO ACCELERATE
SUSTAINABILITY WITHIN THE
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Sub-
committee on Energy held a hearing entitled ‘‘The
Next Mile: Technology Pathways to Accelerate Sus-
tainability within the Transportation Sector’’. Testi-
mony was heard from public witnesses.
THE ROLE OF THE SBA’S 8(a) PROGRAM IN
ENHANCING ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES
Committee on Small Business: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘The Role of the SBA’s 8(a) Pro-
gram in Enhancing Economic Opportunities’’. Testi-
mony was heard from public witnesses.
THE ADMINISTRATION’S PRIORITIES AND
POLICY INITIATIVES UNDER THE CLEAN
WATER ACT
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Sub-
committee on Water Resources and Environment
held a hearing entitled ‘‘The Administration’s Prior-
ities and Policy Initiatives Under the Clean Water
Act’’. Testimony was heard from Dave Ross, Assist-
ant Administrator, Office of Water, Environmental
Protection Agency; Maia Bellon, Director, Depart-
ment of Ecology, Washington; Becky Keogh, Sec-
retary, Department of Energy and Environment, Ar-
kansas; and public witnesses.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Full Committee held a
business meeting to Reauthorize the Women Vet-
erans’ Task Force. Reauthorization of the Women’s
Veteran’s Task Force passed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18SE9.REC D18SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1030 September 18, 2019
CRITICAL IMPACT: HOW BARRIERS TO
HIRING AT VA AFFECT PATIENT CARE
AND ACCESS
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Critical Impact: How Barriers to
Hiring at VA Affect Patient Care and Access’’. Tes-
timony was heard from Daniel R. Sitterly, Assistant
Secretary, Office of Human Resources and Adminis-
tration/Operations, Security, and Preparedness, De-
partment of Veterans Affairs; Michael Missal, Inspec-
tor General, Department of Veterans Affairs; and
Robert Goldenkoff, Director, Strategic Issues, Gov-
ernment Accountability Office.
Joint Meetings
GUN VIOLENCE IN AMERICA
Joint Economic Committee: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine gun violence in America, focus-
ing on understanding and reducing the costs of fire-
arm injuries and deaths, after receiving testimony
from Adam Skaggs, Giffords Law Center to Prevent
Gun Violence, New York, New York; Tina Meins,
Everytown Survivor Network, Washington, D.C.;
John R. Lott, Jr., Crime Prevention Research Center,
Alexandria, Virginia; and Suzanna Gratia Hupp,
former Member of the Texas House of Representa-
tives, Lampasas County, Texas.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 19, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Appropriations: business meeting to markup
an original bill making appropriations for Transportation,
Housing and Urban Development, and related agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, an original
bill making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Devel-
opment, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2020, and an original bill making appro-
priations for Financial Services and General Government
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, 10:30
a.m., SD–106.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine the nominations of Marshall Billingslea, of Virginia,
to be an Under Secretary of State (Civilian Security, De-
mocracy, and Human Rights), Adam Seth Boehler, of
Louisiana, to be Chief Executive Officer of the United
States International Development Finance Corporation,
Darrell E. Issa, of California, to be Director of the Trade
and Development Agency, and Michael Pack, of Mary-
land, to be Chief Executive Officer of the Broadcasting
Board of Governors, 9:30 a.m., SD–419.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: to
hold hearings to examine the nomination of Eugene
Scalia, of Virginia, to be Secretary of Labor, 9 a.m.,
SD–430.
Committee on the Judiciary: business meeting to consider
S. 2132, to promote security and provide justice for
United States victims of international terrorism, S. 2281,
to amend chapter 11 of title 35, United States Code, to
require the voluntary collection of demographic informa-
tion for patent applications, and the nominations of Halil
Suleyman Ozerden, of Mississippi, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, David B. Barlow, to
be United States District Judge for the District of Utah,
John Fitzgerald Kness, to be United States District Judge
for the Northern District of Illinois, R. Austin Huffaker,
Jr., to be United States District Judge for the Middle
District of Alabama, Lee Philip Rudofsky, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Arkansas,
Justin Reed Walker, to be United States District Judge
for the Western District of Kentucky, Eleni Maria
Roumel, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the United States
Court of Federal Claims, and Kenneth Charles Canter-
bury, Jr., of South Carolina, to be Director, Bureau of Al-
cohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, W. Stephen
Muldrow, to be United States Attorney for the District
of Puerto Rico, Michael D. Baughman, to be United
States Marshal for the Western District of Pennsylvania,
Kerry Lee Pettingill, to be United States Marshal for the
Eastern District of Oklahoma, and Fernando L. G. Sablan,
to be United States Marshal for the District of Guam and
concurrently United States Marshal for the District of the
Northern Mariana Islands, all of the Department of Jus-
tice, 10 a.m., SD–226.
House
Committee on Agriculture, Subcommittee on General
Farm Commodities and Risk Management; and Sub-
committee and Livestock and Foreign Agriculture, joint
hearing entitled ‘‘To Review the Implementation of Fed-
eral Farm and Disaster Programs’’, 10 a.m., 1300 Long-
worth.
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathe-
matics (STEM) Engagement’’, 10 a.m., H–309 Capitol.
Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Marine Debris: Impacts on
Ecosystems and Species’’, 10:30 a.m., 2008 Rayburn.
Committee on the Budget, Full Committee, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Solutions to Rising Economic Inequality’’, 10 a.m.,
210 Cannon.
Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on
Higher Education and Workforce Investment, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Broken Promises: Examining the Failed Imple-
mentation of the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Pro-
gram’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Civil Rights and Human Services,
hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the Policies and Priorities of
the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC)
and the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs
(OFCCP)’’, 2 p.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations, hearing entitled ‘‘Protecting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:18 Dec 17, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD19\SEPTEMBER\D18SE9.REC D18SE9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1031
September 18, 2019
Unaccompanied Children: The Ongoing Impact of the
Trump Administration’s Cruel Policies’’, 10 a.m., 2123
Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Consumer Protection and Commerce,
hearing entitled ‘‘Profits Over Consumers: Exposing How
Pharmaceutical Companies Game the System’’, 10:30
a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, con-
tinue markup on H.R. 123, the ‘‘FHA Additional Credit
Pilot Program Reauthorization Act’’; H.R. 132, the
‘‘North America Development Bank Improvement Act of
2019’’; H.R. 4029, the ‘‘Tribal Eligibility for Homeless
Assistance Grants Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4067, the ‘‘Finan-
cial Inclusion in Banking Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4242, the
‘‘Greater Accountability in Pay Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4300,
the ‘‘Fostering Stable Housing Opportunities Act of
2019’’; H.R. 4302, the ‘‘Facilitating Access to Homeless
Assistance Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4328, the ‘‘Protecting In-
nocent Consumers Affected by a Shutdown Act’’; H.R.
4329, the ‘‘ESG Disclosure Simplification Act of 2019’’;
legislation to amend the Securities and Exchange Act of
1934 to allow for the SEC to seek and Federal courts to
grant restitution to investors and disgorgement of unjust
enrichment; legislation on the 8–K Trading Gap Act of
2019; and legislation on the Corporate Management Ac-
countability Act of 2019, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Trump Administration’s Afghanistan Pol-
icy’’, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Trans-
portation and Maritime Security, hearing entitled ‘‘The
Northern Northern Border: Homeland Security Priorities
in the Arctic, Part I’’, 2 p.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Oversight Hearing on Policing Practices’’, 10
a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Energy
and Mineral Resources, hearing on H.R. 496, the ‘‘Sink-
hole Mapping Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2485, the ‘‘Federal
Land Asset Inventory Reform Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2640,
the ‘‘Buffalo Tract Protection Act’’; H.R. 4026, the ‘‘En-
hancing Geothermal Production on Federal Lands Act’’;
and H.R. 4299, the ‘‘Data Preservation Act of 2019’’, 10
a.m., 1334 Longworth.
Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public
Lands, hearing on H.R. 3458, the ‘‘Recreation Not Red
Tape’’; and H.R. 3879, the ‘‘SOAR Act’’, 10 a.m., 1324
Longworth.
Subcommittee for Indigenous Peoples of the United
States, hearing on H.R. 1312, the ‘‘Yurok Lands Act of
2019’’; S. 216, the ‘‘Spokane Tribe of Indians of the Spo-
kane Reservation Equitable Compensation Act’’; H.R.
3846, the ‘‘Safeguard Tribal Objects of Patrimony Act of
2019’’; and H.R. 4153, the ‘‘Health Care Access for
Urban Native Veterans Act’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘H.R. 51: Making D.C. the 51st State’’,
10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Science and Technology at the
Environmental Protection Agency’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Innova-
tion and Workforce Development, hearing entitled ‘‘SBA
Programs Spurring Innovation’’, 10:30 a.m., 2360 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 3632, the ‘‘Fair and Open Skies
Act’’; H.R. 1620, the ‘‘Chesapeake Bay Program Reau-
thorization Act’’; H.R. 1132, the ‘‘San Francisco Bay Res-
toration Act’’; H.R. 2247, the ‘‘Promoting United Gov-
ernment Efforts to Save Our Sound Act’’; H.R. 4031, the
‘‘Great Lakes Restoration Initiative Act of 2019’’; H.R.
4044, the ‘‘Protect and Restore America’s Estuaries Act’’;
H.R. 4275, to amend the Federal Water Pollution Con-
trol Act to reauthorize the Lake Pontchartrain Basin Res-
toration Program, and for other purposes; H.R. 3779, the
‘‘Resilience Revolving Loan Fund Act of 2019’’; H.R.
2242, to amend the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act to include certain services
in the definition of critical services, and for other pur-
poses; legislation on the PREPARE Act of 2019; and
General Services Administration’s Capital Investment and
Leasing Program Resolutions, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Subcommittee on Dis-
ability Assistance and Memorial Affairs, hearing entitled
‘‘Update on VA Contracted Exams, Quality Review Proc-
ess, and Service to Rural Veterans’’, 10:30 a.m.,
HVC–210.
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, hearing
entitled ‘‘Examining VA’s Overpayments and Collection
Processes’’, 2 p.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommittee on Over-
sight, hearing entitled ‘‘How the Tax Code Subsidizes
Hate’’, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Recommendations for Im-
proving the Budget and Appropriations Process: A Look
at the Work of the Joint Select Committee’’, 10 a.m.,
2359 Rayburn.
Joint Meetings
Senate Committee on Armed Services: closed meeting of
conferees on S. 1790, a bill to authorize appropriations
for fiscal year 2020 for military activities of the Depart-
ment of Defense, for military construction, and for de-
fense activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, 10 a.m.,
SD–G50.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D18SE9.REC D18SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1032 September 18, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Thursday, September 19
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Brian McGuire, of New York,
to be a Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Thursday, September 19
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: To be announced.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Allen, Rick W., Ga., E1167
Babin, Brian, Tex., E1174
Bost, Mike, Ill., E1169
Budd, Ted, N.C., E1172
Cloud, Michael, Tex., E1169
Clyburn, James E., S.C., E1169
DeFazio, Peter A., Ore., E1173
DeLauro, Rosa L., Conn., E1173
DeSaulnier, Mark, Calif., E1172
Deutch, Theodore E., Fla., E1171
Dingell, Debbie, Mich., E1171
Garamendi, John, Calif., E1170
Gonzalez, Vicente, Tex., E1170
Huizenga, Bill, Mich., E1171
Katko, John, N.Y., E1170, E1173
Langevin, James R., R.I., E1174
Larson, John B., Conn., E1167
Lofgren, Zoe, Calif., E1170
Long, Billy, Mo., E1169
McCarthy, Kevin, Calif., E1169
Neguse, Joe, Colo., E1174
Perry, Scott, Pa., E1172
Quigley, Mike, Ill., E1172
Schakowsky, Janice D., Ill., E1173
Shimkus, John, Ill., E1167
Tipton, Scott R., Colo., E1172
Walberg, Tim, Mich., E1171
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:49 Sep 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D18SE9.REC D18SEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
