Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H2989
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019 No. 58
House of Representatives
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. KIM).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
April 3, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable ANDY KIM
to act as Speaker pro tempore on this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Loving God, You are compassionate
and merciful. We give You thanks for
giving us another day. This morning
the House welcomes Jens Stoltenberg,
NATO’s Secretary General. When the
world remembers the 70th anniversary
of the alliance, may he find a welcome
here, and may the cooperation of so
many countries continue into a future
of mutual respect and security among
the community of nations.
There are many issues which press
upon our Nation now, and more lie
upon the legislative horizon. Pour
forth an abundance of wisdom, knowl-
edge, and understanding upon the
Members of Congress and upon Your
people so that, together, solutions for
the betterment of our Nation might be
forged.
Bless us this day and every day. May
all that is done be for Your greater
honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
The SPEAKER pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. After
consultation among the Speaker and
the majority and minority leaders, and
with their consent, the Chair an-
nounces that, when the two Houses
meet in joint meeting to hear an ad-
dress by His Excellency Jens
Stoltenberg, Secretary General of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization,
only the doors immediately opposite
the Speaker and those immediately to
his left and right will be open.
No one will be allowed on the floor of
the House who does not have the privi-
lege of the floor of the House. Due to
the large attendance that is antici-
pated, the rule regarding the privilege
of the floor must be strictly enforced.
Children of Members will not be per-
mitted on the floor. The cooperation of
all Members is requested.
The practice of reserving seats prior
to the joint meeting by placard will
not be allowed. Members may reserve
their seats by physical presence only
following the security sweep of the
Chamber.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Thurs-
day, March 28, 2019, the House stands in
recess subject to the call of the Chair.
Accordingly, (at 9 o’clock and 3 min-
utes a.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1052
JOINT MEETING TO HEAR AN AD-
DRESS BY HIS EXCELLENCY
JENS STOLTENBERG, SEC-
RETARY GENERAL OF THE
NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY OR-
GANIZATION
During the recess, the House was
called to order by the Speaker at 10
o’clock and 52 minutes a.m.
The Assistant to the Sergeant at
Arms, Ms. Kathleen Joyce, announced
the Vice President and Members of the
U.S. Senate, who entered the Hall of
the House of Representatives, the Vice
President taking the chair at the right
of the Speaker, and the Members of the
Senate the seats reserved for them.
The SPEAKER. The joint meeting
will come to order.
The Chair appoints as members of
the committee on the part of the House
to escort His Excellency Jens
Stoltenberg into the Chamber:
The gentleman from Maryland (Mr.
HOYER);
The gentleman from South Carolina
(Mr. CLYBURN);
The gentleman from New Mexico (Mr.
LUJÁN);
The gentleman from New York (Mr.
JEFFRIES);
The gentlewoman from Massachu-
setts (Ms. CLARK);
The gentleman from California (Mr.
SCHIFF);
The gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL);
The gentlewoman from New York
(Mrs. LOWEY);
The gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
CONNOLLY);
The gentleman from California (Mr.
MCCARTHY);
The gentleman from Louisiana (Mr.
SCALISE);
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.000 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2990 April 3, 2019
The gentlewoman from Wyoming
(Ms. CHENEY);
The gentleman from Minnesota (Mr.
EMMER);
The gentleman from Alabama (Mr.
PALMER);
The gentleman from North Carolina
(Mr. WALKER);
The gentleman from Missouri (Mr.
SMITH);
The gentleman from California (Mr.
NUNES); and
The gentleman from Texas (Mr.
MCCAUL).
The VICE PRESIDENT. The Presi-
dent of the Senate, at the direction of
that body, appoints the following Sen-
ators as members of the committee on
the part of the Senate to escort His Ex-
cellency Jens Stoltenberg, Secretary
General of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization into the House Chamber:
The Senator from Kentucky (Mr.
MCCONNELL);
The Senator from South Dakota (Mr.
THUNE);
The Senator from Iowa (Mr. GRASS-
LEY);
The Senator from Wyoming (Mr.
BARRASSO);
The Senator from Iowa (Ms. ERNST);
The Senator from Missouri (Mr.
BLUNT);
The Senator from Idaho (Mr. RISCH);
The Senator from North Carolina
(Mr. TILLIS);
The Senator from Illinois (Mr. DUR-
BIN);
The Senator from Washington (Mrs.
MURRAY);
The Senator from Minnesota (Ms.
KLOBUCHAR);
The Senator from West Virginia (Mr.
MANCHIN);
The Senator from Wisconsin (Ms.
BALDWIN);
The Senator from Rhode Island (Mr.
REED);
The Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
MENENDEZ);
The Senator from Maryland (Mr.
CARDIN); and
The Senator from New Hampshire
(Mrs. SHAHEEN).
The Assistant to the Sergeant at
Arms announced the Acting Dean of
the Diplomatic Corps, His Excellency
Serge Mombouli, the Ambassador of
the Republic of Congo.
The Acting Dean of the Diplomatic
Corps entered the Hall of the House of
Representatives and took the seat re-
served for him.
The Assistant to the Sergeant at
Arms announced the Cabinet of the
President of the United States.
The members of the Cabinet of the
President of the United States entered
the Hall of the House of Representa-
tives and took the seats reserved for
them in front of the Speaker’s rostrum.
At 11 o’clock and 10 minutes a.m.,
the Sergeant at Arms, the Honorable
Paul D. Irving, announced His Excel-
lency Jens Stoltenberg, Secretary Gen-
eral of the North Atlantic Treaty Orga-
nization.
The Secretary General of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization, escorted
by the committee of Senators and Rep-
resentatives, entered the Hall of the
House of Representatives and stood at
the Clerk’s desk.
(Applause, the Members rising.)
The SPEAKER. Members of Con-
gress, I have the high privilege and the
distinct honor of presenting to you His
Excellency Jens Stoltenberg, Secretary
General of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization.
(Applause, the Members rising.)
Secretary General STOLTENBERG.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Vice President,
honorable Members of the United
States Congress, ladies and gentlemen,
I am really truly honored and grateful
for the privilege of addressing you all
today and to represent the 29 members
of the NATO alliance.
Seventy years ago tomorrow, NATO’s
founding treaty was signed in this
great city. On that day, President Tru-
man said: ‘‘We hope to create a shield
against aggression and the fear of ag-
gression; a bulwark which will permit
us to get on with the real business of
government and society; the business
of achieving a fuller and happier life
for all our citizens.’’
Our alliance was created by people
who had lived through two devastating
world wars. They knew only too well
the horror, the suffering, and the
human and material cost of war. They
were determined that this should never
happen again. And they were also de-
termined to stand up to the expansion
of the Soviet Union which was taking
control over its neighbors, crushing de-
mocracies, and oppressing their people.
So they founded NATO with a clear
purpose: to preserve peace and to safe-
guard freedom, and—with an ironclad
commitment by all members of the al-
liance—to protect each other. They
made a solemn promise: one for all and
all for one.
This commitment has served us well.
Peace has been preserved and freedom
maintained.
Yes, allies have been involved in con-
flicts in different parts of the world,
and allies have suffered the pain of ter-
rorist attacks, but no NATO ally has
been attacked by another country. The
Cold War ended without a shot being
fired in Europe, and we have experi-
enced an unprecedented period of
peace. So the NATO alliance is not
only the longest lasting alliance in his-
tory, it is the most successful alliance
in history.
Ever since the founding of our treaty,
our alliance, in 1949, every Congress,
every American President, your men
and women in uniform, and the people
of the United States of America have
been staunch supporters of NATO.
America has been the backbone of
our alliance. It has been fundamental
to European security and for our free-
dom. We would not have the peaceful
and prosperous Europe we see today
without the sacrifice and the commit-
ment of the United States.
For your enduring support, I thank
you all today.
So NATO has been good for Europe.
But NATO has also been good for the
United States. The strength of a nation
is not only measured by the size of its
economy or the number of its soldiers,
but also by the number of its friends.
And through NATO, the United States
has more friends and allies than any
other power. This has made the United
States stronger, safer, and more se-
cure.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Vice President,
it is good to have friends.
Yesterday, as I flew over the Atlan-
tic, I looked out of my window at the
ocean below, the great ocean that lies
between our two continents. The At-
lantic does not divide us; it unites us,
and it binds us together.
For Norwegians like me, the Atlantic
Ocean defines who we are. Indeed, it
was a Norseman, Leif Erikson, who was
the first European to reach American
shores almost 1,000 years ago—a fact
more people would know if he hadn’t
left so quickly and decided not to tell
anyone about it.
For adventurers like Leif Erikson,
the Atlantic Ocean was never a barrier.
Rather, it was a great blue bridge to
new lands and new possibilities. For
millions of Europeans, it has been a
bridge to freedom, sanctuary, and hope.
My grandparents were among them.
My mother was born in Paterson, New
Jersey, and I lived part of my child-
hood in San Francisco. So, this has
given me a sense of kinship with this
wonderful country, a kinship that has
only grown throughout my life.
For instance, I remember well during
the Cold War, when I was a conscript in
the Norwegian Army, our forces were
trained and equipped to hold the line.
But we knew that we could not take on
the might of the Soviet Union alone,
and Norway is actually bordering the
Soviet Union or was bordering the So-
viet Union during the Cold War.
But we also knew that we were not
alone. We knew that, if needed, our
NATO allies, led by the United States,
would soon be there with us. We en-
joyed a level of security that only our
transatlantic alliance could provide.
So, thanks to NATO, as a young man
during the Cold War, I felt safe. And
that says something about the strength
of our alliance.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Vice President,
Members of Congress, at the entrance
to the NATO headquarters in Belgium,
there are two monuments—one, a piece
of the Berlin Wall. Designed to keep
people in and ideas out, it failed. It
failed because the ideas and the values
of those who built it were less compel-
ling and less powerful than ours, be-
cause we, as NATO, were resolute. We
stood together and would not back
down.
The other monument is a twisted
steel beam from the North Tower of
the World Trade Center, a memorial to
the ordinary people going about their
business on an ordinary day when the
unthinkable happened, a memorial to
the 2,977 people who lost their lives on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.003 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2991
April 3, 2019
9/11, a reminder of how all NATO allies
stood with the United States in its
hour of need.
One monument is a symbol of free-
dom, the other a symbol of solidarity.
Both are symbols of NATO, who we are
and what we stand for, what so many of
our brave men and women have fought
for and sometimes died for, but not in
vain and not alone.
The men and women of our armed
forces have served together over dec-
ades. This includes, actually, also,
many of you in this room, in this Con-
gress, in my delegation. And I pay trib-
ute to you and to all those who serve in
the defense of freedom.
There is no higher cause than free-
dom. And in these two monuments, we
see the challenges we have overcome as
an alliance.
We deterred the Soviet Union during
the Cold War; stopped wars and atroc-
ities in the Balkans; fought terrorism
from Afghanistan to the Middle East;
welcomed the newly free nations of
Central and Eastern Europe into our
alliance, helping to spread democracy,
peace, and prosperity.
And NATO’s door remains open. This
year, the Republic of North Macedonia
signed the accession protocol. And with
your support, North Macedonia will
soon become the 30th member of our al-
liance.
So, what started in 1949 with 12 mem-
bers has proven a powerful force for
peace, an alliance that others strive to
join, showing the historic success of
NATO.
But as you all know, success in the
past is not a guarantee of success in
the future. And we have to be frank.
Questions are being asked on both sides
of the Atlantic about the strength of
our partnership.
And, yes, there are differences. We
are an alliance of many different na-
tions, with different geography, his-
tory, and political parties: Republicans
and Democrats, conservatives and
labor, independents, greens, and many
more. This is democracy.
Open discussions and different views
are not a sign of weakness, they are a
sign of strength. So, we should not be
surprised when we see differences be-
tween our countries.
Today, there are disagreements on
issues such as trade, energy, climate
change, and the Iran nuclear deal.
These are serious issues with serious
disagreements. But we should remem-
ber that we have had our disagree-
ments also before: the Suez crisis in
1956; the French withdrawal from mili-
tary cooperation in NATO in 1966; or
the Iraq war in 2003, which was strong-
ly supported by some allies and equally
strongly opposed by others.
The strength of NATO is that, despite
our differences, we have always been
able to unite around our core task, to
defend each other, protect each other,
and to keep our people safe.
We have overcome our disagreements
in the past, and we must overcome our
differences now, because we will need
our alliance even more in the future.
We face unprecedented challenges,
challenges no one nation can face
alone.
The global balance of power is shift-
ing. The fight against terrorism is a
generational fight. We have only just
seen the beginning of the threats in
cyberspace. Artificial intelligence,
quantum computing, and big data
could change the nature of conflict
more fundamentally than the Indus-
trial Revolution. And we will need to
continue to deal with a more assertive
Russia.
In 2014, Russia illegally annexed Cri-
mea, the first time in Europe that one
country had taken part of another by
force since World War II.
And we see a pattern of Russian be-
havior, including a massive military
buildup from the Arctic to the Medi-
terranean and from the Black Sea to
the Baltic; the use of a military-grade
nerve agent in the United Kingdom;
support for Assad’s murderous regime
in Syria; consistent cyberattacks on
NATO allies and partners, targeting ev-
erything from Parliaments to power
grids; sophisticated disinformation
campaigns; and attempts to interfere
in democracy itself.
NATO has responded with the biggest
reinforcement of our collective defense
in decades. For the first time, we have
combat-ready troops deployed in the
east of our alliance. We have increased
the readiness of our forces, tripled the
size of the NATO Response Force; mod-
ernized our command structure; bol-
stered our cyber defenses; and we have
stepped up our support for our close
partners, Georgia and Ukraine, sov-
ereign nations with the sovereign right
to choose their own path.
We do all of this, not to provoke a
conflict, but to prevent a conflict, and
to preserve peace; not to fight, but to
deter; not to attack, but to defend.
There is no contradiction between de-
terrence, defense, and dialogue. We do
not want to isolate Russia. We strive
for a better relationship with Russia.
But even without a better relationship,
we still need to manage a difficult one.
So we need to talk, and we do talk, to
reduce risks, to avoid incidents, acci-
dents, and miscalculations.
We also need dialogue in order to
work for arms control. My generation
was shaped by the deployment of thou-
sands of nuclear missiles in Europe in
the 1980s, missiles capable of destroy-
ing our cities and killing millions of
people in moments.
Thanks to the vision and leadership
of President Reagan and Premier
Gorbachev, the INF Treaty put an end
to all these weapons.
But today, they are back. Russia has
deployed new missiles in Europe. They
are mobile, hard to detect, nuclear ca-
pable, cut the warning time to just
minutes, and reduce the threshold for
the use of nuclear weapons in an armed
conflict.
NATO’s position is united and clear.
Russia is in violation of the INF Trea-
ty. There are no new American missiles
in Europe, but there are new Russian
missiles.
I continue to call on Russia to return
to compliance with the INF Treaty.
But so far, Russia has taken no steps to
do so, and time is running out.
We do not want a new arms race. We
do not want a new Cold War. But we
must not be naive. An agreement that
is only respected by one side will not
keep us safe, so we must also prepare
for a world without the INF Treaty.
We will be measured and coordinated.
We will not mirror what Russia is
doing. NATO has no intention of de-
ploying land-based nuclear missiles in
Europe. But NATO will always take
the necessary steps to provide credible
and effective deterrence.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Vice President,
the fight against terrorism also de-
mands our collective effort. The at-
tacks on 9/11 made that clear.
NATO’s response to those was swift.
Within 24 hours, and for the first and
only time in our history, we invoked
Article 5 of the Washington Treaty, the
collective defense clause, which states:
‘‘An armed attack against one . . .
shall be considered an attack against
them all.’’
So, 9/11 was not only an attack on the
United States, but against all NATO
allies. Within days, NATO aircraft were
patrolling American skies. And in the
wake of 9/11, NATO soldiers went to
fight side by side in Afghanistan to
prevent that country from ever again
becoming a safe haven for terrorists
who could attack us here at home.
Over the years, hundreds of thou-
sands of troops from Europe and Can-
ada have served in Afghanistan. Over a
thousand have paid the ultimate price,
and many more have been seriously
wounded. We honor their service and
their sacrifice.
NATO remains in Afghanistan today
to fight terrorism and to train Afghan
forces. Our goal is not to stay there
forever. We should not stay any longer
than is necessary. We went in together;
we will decide on our future presence
together; and when the time comes, we
will leave together.
NATO fully supports the peace proc-
ess. It must pave the way for Afghan
reconciliation. There can only be peace
if Afghanistan stays free from inter-
national terrorists. And for peace to be
sustainable, it must build on our
achievements. NATO has created the
conditions for social and economic
progress, bringing education and
human rights to women and girls.
Their rights must be preserved.
NATO is not only fighting terrorism
in Afghanistan, we are also part of the
Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS. The
Coalition has made remarkable
progress.
Once, ISIS controlled an area rough-
ly the size of Virginia, and they im-
posed their twisted ideology on mil-
lions. They beheaded people, burned
people alive, and traded women as sex
slaves.
We should never forget their bru-
tality; and, thanks to American leader-
ship and our collective efforts, we have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.005 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2992 April 3, 2019
stopped this brutality, and millions of
people have been liberated.
But our work is not done. That is
why NATO is stepping up our training
of Iraqi forces, so they can better de-
fend their country and make sure that
ISIS can never return.
This is also why NATO supports our
partners in the Middle East and North
Africa, helping them to build up their
intelligence services, border security,
cybersecurity, and Special Operations
Forces.
Training local forces and building
local capacity are among the best
weapons we have in the fight against
terrorism. Prevention is better than
intervention.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Vice President,
some of you here today will have been
directly affected by terrorism. You
may have lost friends and loved ones.
You know the reality of terrorism. I
know it too.
I was Prime Minister of Norway on
the 22nd of July 2011, a date that will
live in infamy in the history of my
country. That day, a terrorist deto-
nated a bomb outside my office, killing
eight people and injuring many more.
He then went to the island of Utoya,
where young people were enjoying a
summer camp. He killed a further 69
people, most of them teenagers with
their whole lives ahead of them. It was
the darkest day in Norway since the
Second World War. It was the darkest
day of my life.
Terrorism comes in many forms.
Some perpetrators misuse religion,
others misuse political ideology. They
claim to be different from each other,
fighting for different causes, but they
are all the same. They believe in ha-
tred, violence, and killing innocent
men, women, and children. They are
nothing more than cowards.
Terrorists attack our freedom, our
values, and our way of life. Our answer
must be more openness and more de-
mocracy. Our values will prevail.
Freedom will prevail over oppression,
tolerance over intolerance, and love
will always prevail over hate.
I see this in the flowers laid outside
the mosques in Christchurch, New Zea-
land. I see this in the lives led by the
young survivors of the attacks in Nor-
way.
I see this in New York and Wash-
ington, two indomitable cities, cities
that were not intimidated, not de-
feated, but which rose stronger than
ever from the horror of that September
morning.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Vice President,
NATO is a strong alliance, but to re-
main a strong alliance, NATO must be
a fair alliance.
In an ideal world, we would not need
to spend any money on defense. But we
do not live in an ideal world.
Freedom has enemies, and they need
to be deterred. And if deterrence fails,
we need to fight it.
Hitler could not have been stopped
with peaceful protests. Stalin could not
have been deterred with words. ISIS
could not have been defeated with dia-
logue.
Future enemies of freedom may
choose violence again. Our desire for a
peaceful world is simply not enough.
We must act, and invest, to make it so.
NATO allies must spend more on de-
fense. This has been the clear message
from President Trump, and this mes-
sage is having a real impact.
After years of reducing defense budg-
ets, all allies have stopped the cuts and
all allies have increased their defense
spending. Before, they were cutting bil-
lions; now they are adding billions.
In just the last 2 years, European al-
lies and Canada have spent an addi-
tional $41 billion on defense. By the end
of next year, that figure will rise to
$100 billion. This is making NATO
stronger.
That money will allow us to invest in
new capabilities our armed forces need;
including advanced fighter aircraft, at-
tack helicopters, missile defense, and
surveillance drones. This is good for
Europe, and it is good for America.
America’s NATO allies provide im-
portant capabilities; including tens of
thousands of intelligence personnel and
cyber experts, giving the United States
better eyes and ears where you need
them, from tracking submarines in the
Arctic to taking down the cyber net-
works of ISIS.
Europe provides the U.S. with a plat-
form to project power around the
world.
Last year, I was in Fort Worth,
Texas, and I saw how industries from
many NATO allies are working to-
gether to produce next-generation
strike-fighter aircraft.
NATO has always had a technological
edge. To keep that edge, we must inno-
vate and capitalize on the ingenuity of
our industries and our best minds, on
both sides of the Atlantic. This will
continue to provide us with advanced
capabilities and create jobs in the
United States, Canada, and Europe.
So our transatlantic bond is not just
about security, it is also about pros-
perity.
It is not by chance that Article 2 of
the Washington Treaty encourages eco-
nomic collaboration between our Na-
tions.
Europe and America have long been,
by far, each other’s largest trading
partners, creating millions of jobs on
both sides of the Atlantic, generating
more than $3 billion a day in trade, in-
jecting trillions of dollars into our
economies.
There is more wealth, greater health,
better education, and more happiness
thanks to the bond between our two
continents.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Vice President,
the ultimate expression of burden-shar-
ing is that we stand together, fight to-
gether, and sometimes die together.
I have visited Arlington National
Cemetery to pay tribute to all those
American soldiers who have given their
lives, many of them in defense of Eu-
rope.
Two world wars and the Cold War
made it clear how important America
is to the security of Europe and, equal-
ly, that peace and stability in Europe
is important to the United States.
Our alliance has not lasted for 70
years out of a sense of nostalgia or of
sentiment.
NATO lasts because it is in the na-
tional interest of each and every one of
our Nations.
Together, we represent 1 billion peo-
ple. We are half of the world’s eco-
nomic might and half of the world’s
military might.
When we stand together, we are
stronger than any potential challenger
economically, politically, and mili-
tarily.
We need this collective strength be-
cause we will face new threats, and we
have seen so many times before how
difficult it is to predict the future. We
were not able to predict the fall of the
Berlin Wall, the 9/11 attacks, the rise of
ISIS, or Russia’s illegal annexation of
Crimea.
Since we cannot foresee the future,
we have to be prepared for the unfore-
seen. We need a strategy to deal with
uncertainty. We have one. That strat-
egy is NATO.
A strong and agile NATO reduces
risks and enables us to deal with sur-
prises when they happen. And they will
happen.
NATO is the most successful alliance
in history because we have always been
able to change as the world changes,
and because, despite our differences, we
are united in our commitment to each
other.
NATO is an alliance of sovereign na-
tions, united by democracy, liberty,
and the rule of law, by a person’s right
to live their life in the pursuit of hap-
piness, free from oppression—values
that lie at the heart of the United
States and at the heart of NATO.
As President Eisenhower, NATO’s
first Supreme Allied Commander, said,
‘‘We are concerned not only with the
protection of territory . . . but with
the defense of a way of life.’’
Europe and North America are not
separated by the Atlantic Ocean; we
are united by it. And just like the At-
lantic, NATO unites our continents,
our nations, and our people. It has done
so for 70 years.
And today, we must do everything in
our power to maintain that unity for
future generations, because come what
may, we are stronger and safer when
we stand together.
Madam Speaker, Mr. Vice President,
it is good to have friends.
Thank you.
(Applause, the Members rising.)
At 11 o’clock and 56 minutes a.m., His
Excellency Jens Stoltenberg, Secretary
General of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, accompanied by the com-
mittee of escort, retired from the Hall
of the House of Representatives.
The Assistant to the Sergeant at
Arms escorted the invited guests from
the Chamber in the following order:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.006 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2993
April 3, 2019
The members of the President’s Cabi-
net;
The Acting Dean of the Diplomatic
Corps.
f
JOINT MEETING DISSOLVED
The SPEAKER. The purpose of the
joint meeting having been completed,
the Chair declares the joint meeting of
the two Houses now dissolved.
Accordingly (at 11 o’clock and 57
minutes a.m. ), the joint meeting of the
two Houses was dissolved.
The Members of the Senate retired to
their Chamber.
The SPEAKER. The House will con-
tinue in recess subject to the call of
the Chair.
f
b 1226
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY
of New York) at 12 o’clock and 26 min-
utes p.m.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, April 3, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
April 3, 2019, at 12:00 p.m.:
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment H.R. 1839.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
PRINTING OF PROCEEDINGS HAD
DURING RECESS
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the pro-
ceedings had during the recess be print-
ed in the RECORD.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Pennsylvania?
There was no objection.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 1585, VIOLENCE AGAINST
WOMEN REAUTHORIZATION ACT
OF 2019
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 281 and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 281
Resolved, That at any time after adoption
of this resolution the Speaker may, pursuant
to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the
House resolved into the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1585) to reau-
thorize the Violence Against Women Act of
1994, and for other purposes. The first read-
ing of the bill shall be dispensed with. All
points of order against consideration of the
bill are waived. General debate shall be con-
fined to the bill and shall not exceed one
hour equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of the
Committee on the Judiciary. After general
debate the bill shall be considered for
amendment under the five-minute rule. In
lieu of the amendment in the nature of a
substitute recommended by the Committee
on the Judiciary now printed in the bill, it
shall be in order to consider as an original
bill for the purpose of amendment under the
five-minute rule an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of
Rules Committee Print 116-9 modified by the
amendment printed in part A of the report of
the Committee on Rules accompanying this
resolution. That amendment in the nature of
a substitute shall be considered as read. All
points of order against that amendment in
the nature of a substitute are waived. No
amendment to that amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute shall be in order except
those printed in part B of the report of the
Committee on Rules. Each such amendment
may be offered only in the order printed in
the report, may be offered only by a Member
designated in the report, shall be considered
as read, shall be debatable for the time speci-
fied in the report equally divided and con-
trolled by the proponent and an opponent,
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall
not be subject to a demand for division of the
question in the House or in the Committee of
the Whole. All points of order against such
amendments are waived. At the conclusion
of consideration of the bill for amendment
the Committee shall rise and report the bill
to the House with such amendments as may
have been adopted. Any Member may de-
mand a separate vote in the House on any
amendment adopted in the Committee of the
Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the
nature of a substitute made in order as origi-
nal text. The previous question shall be con-
sidered as ordered on the bill and amend-
ments thereto to final passage without inter-
vening motion except one motion to recom-
mit with or without instructions.
b 1230
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Pennsylvania is recog-
nized for 1 hour.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, for the
purpose of debate only, I yield the cus-
tomary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Arizona (Mrs. LESKO), pending
which I yield myself such time as I
may consume. During consideration of
this resolution, all time yielded is for
the purpose of debate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
be given 5 legislative days to revise and
extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Pennsylvania?
There was no objection.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, on Mon-
day, the Rules Committee met and re-
ported a rule, House Resolution 281,
providing for consideration of H.R.
1585, the Violence Against Women Re-
authorization Act of 2019, under a
structured rule.
The rule self-executes a manager’s
amendment that makes technical
changes to reflect appropriate statute
sections, corrects terminologies, and
makes in order 40 amendments.
Mr. Speaker, this year, we are cele-
brating the 25th anniversary of the Vi-
olence Against Women Act, VAWA, a
landmark piece of bipartisan legisla-
tion that has helped to reduce in-
stances of domestic violence and en-
sure that millions of survivors have ac-
cess to the services they need.
VAWA was the first piece of Federal
legislation to acknowledge domestic
violence and sexual assault as crimes
and has dramatically improved our Na-
tion’s response to helping survivors in
both the short and long term.
Since its enactment in 1994, VAWA
has brought together law enforcement,
social service organizations, and vic-
tims’ advocates to bring domestic vio-
lence to light, provide survivors with
support, and hold abusers accountable
for their actions.
VAWA was and still is a piece of leg-
islation developed by the people who
work closest to these issues in their
communities. The bipartisan bill we
will vote on this week reflects the on-
going commitment of Members on both
sides of the aisle to ending domestic vi-
olence and abuse in all forms.
Before I get further into the compo-
nents and details of the bill, I would
like to share two stories about my con-
stituents to illustrate why VAWA re-
authorization is so necessary and why
we must continue to commit ourselves
to preventing domestic violence at
every opportunity.
Mr. Speaker, please keep in mind
that each of these stories happened in
the past week in my district.
First, last week, a young woman was
murdered by her ex-husband at a con-
venience store, where the two were
meeting to exchange custody of their 6-
year-old son. The ex-husband left their
son at home and, instead, brought an
AR–15 style rifle, which he used to
murder the woman in the middle of the
store.
He was caught by law enforcement
after he fled the store, but as a result
of these horrific actions, a young
woman was murdered in cold blood and
a child has, effectively, lost both par-
ents.
This was not the first time the ex-
husband had threatened to kill his ex-
wife during a child custody exchange
just like the one this past week. Fol-
lowing an incident 3 years ago, he was
charged with harassment and making
terroristic threats, and the woman was
granted a protection-from-abuse order.
But this didn’t prevent her or her
family from living in fear of what her
ex-husband might do next. Tragically,
the very worst happened.
Then, just this past Sunday evening,
another woman was asleep in her home
in Upland with her three children
when, just after midnight, her ex-boy-
friend broke into her house, entered
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.008 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2994 April 3, 2019
her bedroom, and shot her. Her 5-year-
old child witnessed the shooting. Had
the gun not jammed when the ex-boy-
friend fired a second time, the victim
would be dead.
This victim, too, had a protection-
from-abuse order against her attacker,
hers being issued just 5 days before
that attack.
These two attacks happened just
miles apart from each other, just a few
days apart. These stories are all too
common, because violence against
women is all too common.
I am willing to bet that every Mem-
ber of this body could point to similar
examples of violence against women
from their own congressional districts.
Such acts of violence are not isolated
incidents but are, instead, representa-
tive of the larger systemic problem.
According to the National Center on
Domestic Violence, one in four women
experiences severe intimate partner
physical violence, intimate partner
sexual violence, or intimate partner
stalking, with impacts such as injury,
fearfulness, post-traumatic stress dis-
order, and more.
The same organization found that
one in three women has experienced
some form of physical violence by an
intimate partner, and one in seven
women has been stalked by an intimate
partner during their lifetime, to the
point they felt very fearful or believed
that they or someone close to them
would be harmed or killed.
Intimate partner violence accounts
for 15 percent of violent crimes nation-
wide. Women between the ages of 18
and 24 are the most commonly abused
by an intimate partner.
It is absolutely no wonder why do-
mestic victimization is correlated with
a higher rate of depression and suicidal
behavior later in life.
Further, 19 percent of domestic vio-
lence involves a weapon of some kind.
The presence of a gun in a domestic vi-
olence situation increases the risk of
homicide by 500—that is 500—percent.
You don’t need to be a mathematician
in order to see that guns in the hands
of domestic abusers routinely leads to
violence and death.
The Violence Against Women Reau-
thorization Act recognizes this indis-
putable fact and takes active measures
to correct and improve our laws.
In the United States, women are 21
times more likely to be killed with a
gun than women in any other high-in-
come country.
Mr. Speaker, 41⁄2 million American
women alive today have been threat-
ened by intimate partners with fire-
arms. One million of those have actu-
ally been shot or shot at by their abus-
ers.
I have represented some of these
women and have seen the fear that
they live with and the impact it has on
their children and families.
This bill finally closes the boyfriend
loophole. While Federal law prevents
gun possession by people convicted of,
or under a restraining order for, abus-
ing their spouses, dating partners are
generally exempt from these restric-
tions.
This gaping hole in our gun safety
laws has become even more deadly over
the years. The share of homicides com-
mitted by dating partners has been in-
creasing for three decades. Today,
women are as likely to be killed by
dating partners as they are by spouses.
Closing the boyfriend loophole is a
fact-based, commonsense response to a
very real threat.
The provisions in this reauthoriza-
tion would protect women from abusive
dating partners by ensuring that their
abusers are prohibited from possessing
guns under Federal law.
The definition of ‘‘dating partner’’ is
already contained in the Violence
Against Women Act. This simple up-
date to policy will provide increased
protections for partners in unmarried
relationships.
Closing the boyfriend loophole has
been a bipartisan issue since long be-
fore this bill. Last year, six Repub-
licans cosponsored legislation that
would have closed this loophole, and 23
States, in their own laws, have already
acted to prevent abusers from obtain-
ing guns, including Pennsylvania and
Arizona.
It is time we update Federal law to
reflect the reality, which our States
have already recognized, and prevent
violent dating partners from being able
to access weapons.
This bill also closes the stalker loop-
hole. Stalking has been shown to be a
predictor of intimate partner violence
and homicide, although current law
does not prohibit misdemeanor stalk-
ing offenses.
A study of intimate partner homi-
cides and attempted homicides involv-
ing female victims found that 76 per-
cent of those murders and 85 percent of
attempted murders were preceded by at
least one incident of stalking before
the attack.
Passing this bill will protect women
from stalkers by ensuring those con-
victed of stalking offenses are prohib-
ited from possessing guns under Fed-
eral law.
On top of limiting stalkers and abu-
sive dating partners from legally own-
ing weapons, this bill strengthens en-
forcement by alerting State and local
law enforcement when an abuser fails a
firearms background check. This no-
tice gives State law enforcement an op-
portunity to intervene before an abuser
can obtain a firearm or do any further
harm.
This provision mirrors a bipartisan
bill that was introduced earlier this
year to notify State law enforcement
each time a person who is not allowed
to have guns tries to buy a firearm and
fails the background check. Clearly,
keeping guns out of the hands of those
who should not have them is a bipar-
tisan priority.
Mr. Speaker, one of my first experi-
ences as a young attorney was rep-
resenting women and families who had
sought shelter at the People’s Emer-
gency Center in West Philadelphia.
That agency was started by former
Congressman Bob Edgar.
Most of the women in that shelter
had been subjected to domestic abuse.
This was before VAWA was the law of
the land, but even then it was clear
there were significant problems with
how the system cared for abused
women and punished their abusers.
When VAWA was enacted in 1994, it
spoke to so many of the problems my
then-clients were facing, issues with
housing and employment, caring for
young children, and fighting for cus-
tody in court.
What makes VAWA such a critical
bill is not just the legal protections it
puts in place to protect women but the
structures it sets up to help women
who have been abused.
This reauthorization bill builds upon
those critical reforms from 25 years
ago and updates them to address cur-
rent needs.
The bill funds and improves screen-
ing for victimization and the perpetra-
tion of intimate partner and sexual vi-
olence across federally funded
healthcare programs. The healthcare
system is often one of the first places
women go where unseen abuse can be
detected. Empowering healthcare pro-
fessionals to address such sensitive sit-
uations can help to avert abuse before
it escalates or prevent it from hap-
pening in the first place.
The bill ensures that survivors of do-
mestic abuse can maintain housing in
the event of a breakup with their part-
ner and further protects their privacy
through strengthened confidentiality
agreements with housing authorities.
Similarly, the bill extends traditional
housing grant opportunities to organi-
zations that help underserved popu-
lations.
Victims of domestic abuse are often
at risk of significant financial loss if
they are unable to work and provide
for their family as a result of abuse.
This bill protects survivors from termi-
nation from employment due to disrup-
tion caused by domestic abuse and also
addresses the impact of domestic abuse
on a woman’s credit rating.
We should also note that transgender
people are disproportionately survivors
of sexual assault and violence, and
they deserve to access services con-
sistent with their gender identity.
Domestic violence providers and law
enforcement agree: Transgender
women being in the same space as
other women does not make either less
safe. Laws that prohibit discrimination
based on gender identity have been in
place for years, including specifically
for VAWA programs.
Minneapolis, for example, has had
gender identity protections since 1975,
and there is no credible evidence that
the existence of these laws has contrib-
uted to violence against women. In-
stead, they simply keep transgender
people safe.
Since 1994, VAWA has provided crit-
ical tools to survivors of domestic
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.011 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2995
April 3, 2019
abuse, law enforcement, and commu-
nity organizations to prevent and ad-
dress the impact of domestic violence.
Using those tools to represent sur-
vivors of such abuse, I have seen both
clients and constituents find safe ha-
vens, rebuild their lives, protect their
families, and develop emotionally and
financially productive lives.
Mr. Speaker, I look forward to reau-
thorization of this bill, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume,
and I thank Representative SCANLON
for yielding me the customary 30 min-
utes.
Mr. Speaker, I am a survivor of do-
mestic violence. I also serve on the ad-
visory council of a domestic violence
shelter in my district, and I am the co-
chairwoman of the congressional Bi-
partisan Working Group to End Domes-
tic Violence.
That is why having a strong Violence
Against Women Act, commonly known
as VAWA, that works for the American
people is so very important to me.
Ending violence against women and
protecting women and children should
not be a partisan issue. However, we
find ourselves debating a VAWA reau-
thorization act that is literally a
Christmas tree of progressive, liberal
policy objectives rather than an honest
approach to reforming and updating
such an important law for millions of
women and children.
VAWA has lapsed, putting millions of
women and children at risk, when it
didn’t need to. I, along with 194 other
Republicans, voted to reauthorize
VAWA through the end of the fiscal
year on February 14, 2019.
I sponsored the Protecting Women
Act, which would reauthorize VAWA
until September 30, 2019. This would
have allowed the program to stay in
place while we worked in a truly bipar-
tisan fashion to update and reauthorize
this critical program.
VAWA has historically been a bipar-
tisan bill with little controversy. How-
ever, this particular VAWA proposal
moved through the Judiciary Com-
mittee without a single vote of support
from any Republican.
Throughout this process, my friends
across the aisle have talked a lot about
bipartisanship, but I have seen little ef-
fort from my Democratic colleagues to
engage in a process to pass a VAWA re-
authorization bill that could garner
wide-ranging bipartisan support. And
believe me, I have tried.
I have reached out to my Democratic
colleagues to set up meetings several
times, to no avail.
b 1245
H.R. 1585 is a treasure trove of liberal
policy objectives that will put women,
girls, and children at risk. This bill, as
written, forces shelters and service pro-
viders, under the power of Federal
law—shelters that may not even be
equipped—to place males in the same
sleeping and showering quarters as
women and children purely based on
how that individual ‘‘identifies.’’
These gaping holes in the law will
put women and children at risk to
predators, who may have experienced
trauma from male predators them-
selves. Based on this bill, the shelter
would be required to accept a biologi-
cal male even if the shelter is not
equipped to separate males and fe-
males, forcing vulnerable women who
have been abused and maybe sexually
assaulted to shower with and sleep
next to males.
We hear constantly from the other
side of the aisle that this is all conjec-
ture, what I am saying is all conjecture
and completely hypothetical, and that
this just does not happen. However, we
know this is not true, and I have stated
this before in the Judiciary Committee
and the Rules Committee.
Nine women in Fresno, California,
are suing a shelter for being sexually
harassed in a shelter by a biological
male.
The Hope Center in Alaska is another
example, where a woman was quoted as
saying she would rather sleep in the
woods than have to be in close quarters
with a male and relive her trauma.
Further, this legislation requires—re-
quires—prisons to place biological
males who identify as women in wom-
en’s prisons. We have seen how this
played out in Britain, where a biologi-
cal man who identified as a woman
raped two females.
Those on the other side of the aisle
have accused those of us who want to
preserve sex-segregated spaces based on
biology as discriminatory and demoniz-
ing transgender individuals. This is
completely false.
Nothing in the amendments that I
have offered would discriminate
against anyone. Any shelter could still
take anyone in, but I don’t want gov-
ernment forcing the shelters to take
someone in if they are not equipped to
do so.
What we are pointing out are gaping
holes in this legislative proposal and
potential for predators to take advan-
tage of the law. We must give those
who are sheltering and serving women
the tools to keep them safe.
H.R. 1585 also seeks to eliminate due
process and infringe on Second Amend-
ment rights. I agree that we need to
keep guns out of the hands of dan-
gerous criminals, but expanding laws
to prohibit individuals from exercising
their Second Amendment rights with-
out them even being present to defend
themselves, as is the case in ex parte
orders of protection, is a dangerous
precedent.
Further, H.R. 1585 includes provisions
that would result in a permanent pro-
hibition on owning or possessing fire-
arms by anyone convicted on a mis-
demeanor. Permanently losing a funda-
mental civil right for a misdemeanor
conviction is virtually unheard of. The
bill uses the legitimate and serious
issue of domestic violence as a way to
limit legitimate gun rights.
When coupled with the bill’s expan-
sion of the definition of ‘‘domestic re-
lationship’’ to include ‘‘former dating
partners,’’ a subjective term that could
be easily abused, the bill expands
power to permanently remove some-
one’s right to own firearms to an un-
tenable degree.
This legislation also advances poli-
cies that could reduce criminal pros-
ecutions by tying States’ grant eligi-
bility to policies that ensure that com-
pelling victim testimony is discour-
aged.
Further, it permits the use of VAWA
funds for new ‘‘alternative justice’’
models, under which funds could be
granted to programs that force medi-
ation between an abuser and the victim
of the abuser.
Finally, H.R. 1585 rolls back protec-
tions for sex trafficking. The bill
deprioritizes the use of grant funding
to protect victims of sex trafficking
and would only allow this funding to go
to grantees if their program is pri-
marily focused on domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, or
stalking.
These are just a few of the
hyperpartisan provisions that my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
have injected into this VAWA reau-
thorization. We all want to protect
women and children, and VAWA has
typically received wide-ranging bipar-
tisan support; however, this legislation
fails to do that.
We should be focusing on common-
sense, bipartisan reforms to VAWA in-
stead of on a bill that is a nonstarter in
the U.S. Senate and a bill that will not
be signed by the President.
Mr. Speaker, I urge opposition to the
rule, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
This is not the first time that I have
heard my colleagues misgender trans
women as biological males, and I need
to point something out. Beyond this
term being outright offensive, it shows
how disingenuous their concern for the
safety of women is, and they are show-
ing their hand.
The use of the term ‘‘biological
male’’ is a dog whistle to transphobia
that runs rampant in society and
seems to on the other side of the aisle.
It is not rooted in concern for women
but, rather, a manifestation of their
disdain for the trans community.
Also, my constituents are not the
Senate. My constituents are not Mr.
MCCONNELL. My constituents want
VAWA reauthorized, and we are going
to do what we can to pass it.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Maine (Ms. PIN-
GREE).
Ms. PINGREE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman from Pennsylvania
for yielding me the time.
I rise today in support of the Vio-
lence Against Women Act of 2019.
I want to thank the chair of the Judi-
ciary Committee, and I want to com-
mend the chair of the Subcommittee
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.013 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2996 April 3, 2019
on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland
Security for her leadership and quick
action to get this reauthorized in the
116th Congress.
I also want to thank the chair of the
Rules Committee for his effort to bring
this to the floor today and to have a
strong debate.
The Violence Against Women Act is a
success story. Since its groundbreaking
passage in 1994, this bill has been an ex-
ample of Congress working in a bipar-
tisan way to address an intolerable
problem, the problem of domestic vio-
lence. Today, we are here, over two
decades later, making VAWA even bet-
ter.
H.R. 1585 will improve services for
victims of domestic violence, dating vi-
olence, sexual assault, and stalking. It
assists young victims of violence, and
it extends programs to address bul-
lying. It also updates current programs
relative to dating violence and children
exposed to violent acts.
Of particular importance in the State
of Maine, the bill will further protect
Native American women by expanding
the provisions written in 2013. H.R. 1585
will include Tribal jurisdiction over
non-Indian predators of dating vio-
lence, stalking, and trafficking. At
last, the Tribes of Maine and Alaska
will have the same protections pro-
vided to Tribes nationwide.
According to the most recent data
from the National Institute of Justice,
four in five American Indian and Alas-
ka Native women have experienced vio-
lence in their lifetime. But, according
to the way the Maine Indian Claims
Settlement Act has been interpreted by
some, Maine has been left out of the
law. Unfortunately, this has resulted in
Tribal victims of domestic violence in
Maine or Alaska losing out on protec-
tions that have been extended to Tribal
victims of every federally recognized
Tribe in the country.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
the gentlewoman from Maine an addi-
tional 30 seconds.
Ms. PINGREE. The benefits that
other Tribes have seen from allowing
Tribal jurisdiction over domestic vio-
lence cases include: increased public
safety for all of those living on Tribal
lands, increased community conversa-
tions about domestic violence, updates
to Tribal criminal codes, and increased
collaboration among Tribes and local
and State governments—all of which
have been elusive for the Tribes of
Maine.
Today’s bill will address this long
overdue unfairness that has left Maine
Tribes not only to be treated dif-
ferently, but has also left them out of
the benefits of the 2013 VAWA bill.
For every Member of this body, there
are many reasons to support this bill,
and I urge my colleagues to do so.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Before I have my friend speak, I am
going to address what Representative
SCANLON said, that calling a
transgender woman a biological male,
she said, is offensive and it shows my
disdain for transgender individuals.
That is absolutely false. I have no dis-
dain. I am just merely stating fact.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs.
HARTZLER), my good friend.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in opposition to this rule and the
underlying legislation.
The Violence Against Women Act
was originally enacted to strengthen
law enforcement’s ability to help
women suffering from domestic vio-
lence, sexual assault, and stalking, and
to bolster their efforts in preventing
future violence. I fully support VAWA’s
original intent; however, this rule and
the bill under consideration no longer
focus on the women suffering from vio-
lence. Instead, H.R. 1585 has been po-
liticized.
This bill was written to use women
to overhaul several unrelated areas of
law, such as unemployment benefits,
housing requirements for nonwomen
populations, and the Second Amend-
ment.
In short, the original intent of this
measure, to protect women from abuse,
has been hijacked. Not only does this
legislation lose focus on the matter at
hand, which is women suffering from
violence, it fails to prioritize a wom-
an’s right to privacy, to safety, and to
healing from sexual violence.
Specifically, H.R. 1585 continues a
misguided policy adopted under Presi-
dent Obama, forcing domestic violence
survivors to share female-only shelters
with men. Unfortunately, we have al-
ready seen litigation in women shelters
caused by this type of problematic pol-
icy.
For example, as was mentioned by
my friend from Arizona, the Naomi’s
House women’s shelter in California is
facing a lawsuit on behalf of nine
women who were sexually harassed by
a transgender individual. Staff at the
shelter did not take any disciplinary
action due to the fact that, as a Fed-
eral grantee, they are required to take
in transgender men who identify as fe-
males.
The women suffering from sexual vio-
lence were not only subjected to addi-
tional sexual harassment, but were
threatened to be removed from the
shelter if they refused to share a show-
er and coexist with the transgender in-
dividual.
In a similar case in Alaska, the city
of Anchorage is investigating the
Downtown Hope Center, which is a
faith-based, nonprofit organization.
The reason? They are allegedly vio-
lating a local law because they provide
shelter to only women.
Anchorage is trying to force the Hope
Center to house transgender-identi-
fying men alongside women in its over-
night, shared-sleeping facility. How-
ever, part of the Hope Center’s mission
is to provide women suffering from
rape, physical abuse, and violence a
safe place to sleep at night without the
presence of men.
I would ask my colleagues: How does
this policy advance our goal of helping
women suffering from abuse when it
denies them a safe place to heal? The
answer is: It doesn’t. These new hous-
ing provisions not only diminish the
Violence Against Women Act, but also
enable more violence against women.
While there are many other concerns
with the VAWA language, I will men-
tion just one more.
A 2018 Government Accountability
Office report found that Planned Par-
enthood received nearly $300,000 from
VAWA formula grants during 2013
through 2015. This is extremely dis-
heartening, considering there have
been several undercover investigations
and news stories suggesting that a
number of Planned Parenthood affili-
ates have not been reporting when cli-
ents are victims of statutory rape,
child prostitution, or sex trafficking.
Mr. Speaker, while I fully support in-
creased protections for battered
women, this bill is not the answer. It
further victimizes women, and it uses
them to advance other political causes.
We need to send this bill back to all
seven committees of jurisdiction to ad-
dress these concerns so that a VAWA
law can once again focus on alleviating
suffering from violence.
I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on
the rule and ‘‘no’’ on the underlying
legislation.
b 1300
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, we have heard this alle-
gation over and over again based on
one case in Fresno where the facts have
not been established. It is still in liti-
gation.
As a former trial lawyer, I know that
a lot of allegations can be made, but
the fact that what has been stated as
facts in this case, that men were in a
shelter, is not true. Transgender
women were in the shelter.
It has been stated that a transgender
man couldn’t be excluded from the
shelter and that the staff at the shelter
failed to take action. That actually is
under dispute.
So we have one isolated instance that
is being misrepresented to continue
this line of argument. What we are
really seeing is this tactic of trying to
pit one minority group, one group in
need of services, against another to
convince us that the rights and protec-
tions of one group come at the cost of
another. They have done it with people
of color, with immigrants, and now
with women and members of the trans
community.
Mr. Speaker, I have a clear message:
this country is better than that. They
both need help. It can be done under
this law.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentlewoman from the District of Co-
lumbia (Ms. NORTON).
Ms. NORTON. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.014 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2997
April 3, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of the reauthorization of the Violence
Against Women Act.
The world has changed, my friends,
since our last reauthorization of
VAWA. This bill updates VAWA to
cover new victims of domestic violence
that were not covered in our prior bill
and desperately need protection.
In addition, the #MeToo movement
has made women more determined con-
cerning their rights than ever before.
Perhaps the most desperate need of
victims of domestic violence is for
sanctuary, shelter, emergency housing,
and affordable housing, all in short
supply.
Victims who stay with an abuser risk
everything: homelessness, loss of cus-
tody of children, more abuse, and even
injury and death.
Victims who remain with an abuser
in 40 to 50 percent of cases also see
their children abused.
Forty to as high as 70 percent of fe-
male homicide victims were murdered
by their husbands or boyfriends in a re-
lationship where there had been ongo-
ing abuse.
Perhaps, Mr. Speaker, the most seri-
ous issue confronting victims is no al-
ternative place to live or even to shel-
ter. One-third of survivors become
homeless immediately after separating
from partners.
Our bill bars the eviction of the vic-
tim until suitable housing or a termi-
nation of a lease without penalty can
occur. Grants to help homeless victims
achieve stability are necessary to pre-
vent recurrent bouts of homelessness
from domestic violence.
This reauthorization is desperately
needed without delay. I strongly urge
its passage.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I have one
comment before I introduce my friend
from Oklahoma.
It is said that there has only been
one incident where a biological male
threatened the women, and that is just
simply not true. There have been sev-
eral incidences. Quite frankly, the
question is, how many women have to
be put in a potentially unsafe situation
or have their privacy violated by males
before you realize that this concern is
really legitimate.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the
gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. COLE),
my good friend, the ranking member of
the Rules Committee.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
good friend from Arizona for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to oppose
the rule, and to offer conditional sup-
port for the underlying legislation,
H.R. 1585, the Violence Against Women
Reauthorization Act of 2019.
I oppose the rule simply because my
friends didn’t make in order quite a
number of proposals that we had that
we think ought to be debated on today,
but in fairness, I want to thank Chair-
man MCGOVERN for making in order
quite a few amendments that related
particularly to VAWA in Indian Coun-
try, and I look forward to supporting
those amendments.
I have always tried to consider legis-
lation within its full context and look
at the overall benefit of the bill, and I
will certainly do the same with respect
to VAWA.
Certainly there are provisions in this
version of the reauthorization with
which I profoundly disagree. Those are
particularly related to the Second
Amendment; this includes a misguided
provision to strip someone of the right
to possess a firearm following a mis-
demeanor conviction.
Frankly, I hope and expect that these
provisions will change as the bill pro-
gresses through the legislative process.
To enact VAWA, to actually achieve
the objective, my friends are going to
have to do something they haven’t
done so far: that is actually com-
promise. They will have to compromise
with a Republican Senate and a Repub-
lican President, or this important leg-
islation will not come into law.
However, there are compelling things
about this legislation, and I believe
them particularly to be consistent with
my own views and my own voting
record on Tribal sovereignty and pro-
tection of native women, and I want to
be supportive where I can be.
In 2013, Congress authorized the Trib-
al Court’s jurisdiction over non-Indian
offenders that are arrested for commit-
ting domestic violence or assault
against women Tribal members on In-
dian lands.
The legislation we are considering
today expands this jurisdiction to in-
clude not only women, but also Tribal
children. Further, it extends critical
protection to Tribal police officers.
There are several important amend-
ments that will be debated related to
Indian Country, and I urge the adop-
tion of all of them.
I support the right of Tribes to enact
their own definition of domestic and
sexual violence, rather than replacing
it with the Federal Government’s defi-
nitions. States already have this flexi-
bility; Tribes should as well.
In addition, I also believe Tribal law
enforcement should have the authority
to have access to the National Crime
Information Systems.
Mr. Speaker, more than four out of
five American Indian and Alaska Na-
tive women have experienced violence
in their lifetime. More than half of the
American Indian and Alaska Native
women have experienced sexual vio-
lence in their lifetime. American In-
dian and Alaska Native women are al-
most twice as likely as White women
to have experienced violence in the
past year. Native women face murder
rates more than ten times the national
average in some parts of the country.
They are also more than twice as like-
ly to have experienced rape than non-
Hispanic white women over the course
of a lifetime.
Given these statistics of acts of vio-
lence, 96 percent of American Indian
and Alaska Native women who are vic-
tims of sexual violence experience vio-
lence at the hands of non-native per-
petrators. To reiterate, nearly all the
violence committed against native
women is committed by non-natives.
Mr. Speaker, I do not believe the pro-
tection of all women and children is or
should be treated as a partisan issue.
Tribal governments, through trust and
treaty obligations, should have the
same authority as States to protect
women and children in vulnerable situ-
ations. All States, Tribal, and local law
enforcement authorities should have
access to the use of the same tools to
prevent these crimes on or off reserva-
tions.
As I have said before, hunters know
where to hunt, fishermen know where
to fish, and predators know where to
prey.
The passage of a reformed Violence
Against Women Act gives Tribes badly
needed tools to combat the epidemic of
violence and abuse in Indian Country.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members of
the House of Representatives to work
together in a bipartisan manner to cre-
ate, in the end, a bill that can pass
both chambers and be enacted into law.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Florida (Ms. FRANKEL).
Ms. FRANKEL. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague from Pennsylvania for
yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to rise in
support of what I consider, and many
consider, one of the most important
pieces of legislation that protects the
families of America, the Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act,
because no woman or man or child
should ever be afraid to walk into their
own home because of fear from vio-
lence from a spouse or a dating part-
ner.
So today, I rise on behalf of one of
my constituents named Olga, from
Florida, who on her wedding day
thought she was entering into a dream
marriage for herself and her two chil-
dren. But this marriage turned into a
nightmare when her husband became
aggressive, violent, and controlling,
imprisoning Olga and her two children
in their own home, not even letting the
children go to school.
Olga fled to my hometown and was
nurtured back to emotional and finan-
cial health by a local domestic violence
organization in my community.
The Violence Against Women Act
helps tackle the epidemic of domestic
violence, stalking, dating violence, and
sexual violence.
Since it was first passed in 1994, seri-
ous victimization by an intimate part-
ner has dropped by 72 percent for
women and 64 percent for men. How-
ever, it is estimated that as many as 45
million adults will still experience
physical violence, rape, or stalking by
an intimate partner sometime in their
lives.
Reauthorizing and strengthening this
legislation, expanding protections, in-
creasing funding, and improving serv-
ices to survivors will save lives across
America and help protect women like
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.020 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H2998 April 3, 2019
Olga and let her children be spared
from horrific violence.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues
to support this great bill.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. FOXX).
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I thank my colleague from
Arizona for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to
the rule and the underlying bill.
The Violence Against Women Act,
originally enacted in 1994, was reau-
thorized twice with broad bipartisan
support.
Unfortunately, today’s bill has fol-
lowed the same path as other bills this
Congress. Democrats are more inter-
ested in playing politics and falsely
painting Republicans as anti-women
rather than passing legislation to actu-
ally protect women.
Sadly, despite years of work through
local, State, and Federal efforts, do-
mestic and sexual violence remain seri-
ous problems. I have heard from women
and those working to help them about
the challenges faced by women due to
violence, but as Republican leader of
the House Education and Labor Com-
mittee, I can tell you they have never
asked for a GAO study on student loan
repayment. Such a study is included in
this bill. Another study about repay-
ment options and the challenges of stu-
dent debt will not help those women
who are victims of violence.
If Democrats ever had a compelling
argument, Americans would never
know, since this bill was marked up in
only one committee instead of the
seven that have jurisdiction.
This bill also requires a study by the
Secretaries of Labor and Health and
Human Services on workplace re-
sponses to victims of violence against
women. We are concerned this study is
overbroad, and that the workplace is
not the best avenue to address domes-
tic violence, especially when those re-
sources can be directed to already ex-
isting programs like the National Do-
mestic Abuse Hotline.
I supported the 2006 reauthorization
of this bill and stand strongly against
all perpetrators of violence against
women.
I will always stand for the protection
of women, and any reauthorization of
the Violence Against Women Act
should do the same.
Republicans have been ready and
willing to work in a bipartisan fashion
to reauthorize a bill that truly address-
es domestic and sexual violence, but
the legislation before us today is not a
product worthy of its predecessors.
This bill should go back to be
thoughtfully considered by the Edu-
cation and Labor Committee and all
the committees of jurisdiction before
we consider it on the floor today.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote to reject the rule and the under-
lying bill.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE).
b 1315
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
think all of us have heard, in some
way, paraphrased: While Rome is burn-
ing, much fiddling is going on.
I am grateful for all of the Members
of Congress who helped construct this
legislation.
I want to remind my friends, as the
authorizations proceeded in the 1990s
into the 2000s of the Violence Against
Women Act, the last authorization was
technically supposed to be in 2010, but
it took 3 years until 2013. Working with
advocates who represent almost 200
groups, Republicans and Democrats,
organizations who deal with women
impacted by domestic violence and
other sexual assault issues and acts,
they indicated that they wanted to see
this bill expanded to cover Native
American women, they wanted to pro-
tect immigrant women who are left
vulnerable, they wanted to make sure
it was gender-neutral in many in-
stances. But, as I recall, in 2010, it was
Native American and immigrants, so it
took 3 years. And all the bill wanted to
do was to simply protect people who
are vulnerable.
In this bill, that has been 3 years in
writing—with every opportunity with
the preceding chairman of this com-
mittee, preceding Congress, and mem-
bers on the Judiciary Committee to sit
with us to work—I, for one, remember
constant meetings with staff and mem-
bers interested, Democratic members,
in how we can work together.
This bill is long in waiting for pros-
ecutors and law enforcement. They are
waiting on the $291 million for stock
grants and resources for women’s shel-
ters.
This bill is a bipartisan bill. I thank
Mr. FITZPATRICK for his work. And in
this bill is a whole section on
healthcare that Mr. FITZPATRICK’s bill
allowed us to put in.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
AGUILAR). The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
an additional 30 seconds to the gentle-
woman from Texas.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. It is an impor-
tant contribution to this legislation.
There is an amendment by Mr. GOH-
MERT, my friend from Texas, on female
genital mutilation. It is an amendment
that we worked on, in discussion about
reporting on the incidences with Indian
women, Native American women. My
amendment was joined, supported, by
Republicans in the Judiciary Com-
mittee.
This bill is bipartisan, but, most of
all, it is a response to desperation of
need. The Violence Against Women Act
is long overdue for being reauthorized.
This is a strong product that covers so
many issues to protect women and to
ensure that those who have convictions
with gun violence do not allow them to
come and kill an innocent mom with
her children.
Mr. Speaker, we must pass this bill.
The rule is a good rule. Support the
rule.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Rule
and the underlying bill of H.R. 1585.
The Violence Against Women Act (‘‘VAWA’’)
is landmark legislation which—through policy
reforms, interstate cooperation and grant allo-
cation—has been pivotal in providing a na-
tional response to protecting half of the popu-
lation.
Equally important, it has ushered in a seis-
mic transformation on how society perceives
violence against women.
The law has enhanced and improved the
lives of girls and women, boys and men.
There are many similarities between the
year that VAWA initially passed in 1994, and
the moment in which we all find ourselves
today.
When it was first passed, the country was
experiencing reverberations to yet another po-
larizing battle to fill a seat on the Supreme
Court.
Then the courageous victim sharing her
truth was Anita Hill.
Today, as VAWA is yet again scheduled to
expire, the country is assessing the ripples
created by the #MeToo movement.
But despite the passage of over a quarter-
century since its first enactment, the malignant
treatment received by a courageous person
willing to share her story unfortunately en-
dures.
The need to create a safe space for victims
of violence, especially women, supported with
substantial resources to address this scourge
has taken on a new urgency in this era of the
#MeToo movement.
When discussing VAWA, we cannot forget
the victims of domestic violence like Brittany
Smith, who was 23 years old and was gunned
down last year in Houston, by her boyfriend
and San Diego-based Marine; nor can we for-
get Charlene Caldwell, a mother and grand-
mother beaten to death last year by a baseball
bat at the hands of her boyfriend in Houston.
Domestic violence was alleged in both of
these horrific events.
Unfortunately, there are too many stories
like Charlene’s or Brittany’s.
The stories of these two women remind us
of the urgency to protect survivors now, before
it is too late, because many of these deaths
are preventable.
Despite the experiences of #MeToo sur-
vivors or victims like Ms. Smith or Ms.
Caldwell, all is not for naught.
Since VAWA’s codification in 1994, more
victims report episodes of domestic violence to
the police and the rate of non-fatal intimate
partner violence against women has de-
creased by almost two-thirds.
VAWA has also led to a significant increase
in the reporting of sexual assault.
For example, the percentage of victims of
rape and sexual assault who report the as-
sault to the police increased from 28.8 percent
in 1993—the year prior to VAWA’s initial pas-
sage—to 50 percent in 2010.
In the first 15 years of VAWA’s validity,
rates of serious intimate partner violence de-
clined by 72 percent for women and 64 per-
cent for men.
Research suggests that referring a victim to
a domestic violence or sexual assault advo-
cate has been linked to an increased willing-
ness to file a police report—survivors with an
advocate filed a report with law enforcement
59 percent of the time, versus 41 percent for
individuals not referred to a victim advocate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.019 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H2999
April 3, 2019
This progress cannot be allowed to stop.
Congress must continue sending the clear
message that violence against women is un-
acceptable.
Prior to VAWA, law enforcement lacked the
resources and tools to respond effectively to
domestic violence and sexual assault.
Each reauthorization of VAWA has im-
proved protections for women and men, while
helping to change the culture and reduce the
tolerance for these crimes.
The Violence Against Women Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2019 improves current law in sev-
eral important respects, and takes a holistic
approach to the goal of eliminating the harm
faced by victims of violence, and making vital
services accessible to victims of this scourge.
For example, this iteration of VAWA con-
tains guidance on the use of grants to activate
judicial and law enforcement tools to develop
and enforce firearm surrender policies; ex-
pands permissible use of grant funding for
programs focused on increasing survivor/law
enforcement/community safety; and provides
legal assistance for dependent children in ap-
propriate circumstances.
It also updates programs designed to re-
duce dating violence, help children exposed to
violence and engage men in preventing vio-
lence against women.
Additionally, the bill improves services for
victims of domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, and stalking.
It provides policies, protection, and justice
for young victims of violence, including extend-
ing the Rape Prevention and Education grant
program, addressing bullying of young people,
improving grants focused on prevention edu-
cation for students, and expanding relevant
training for school-based and campus health
centers; and reauthorizes and updates pro-
grams designed to reduce dating violence,
help children exposed to violence, and engage
men in preventing violence.
This bill also recognizes the cascading ills
associated with identifying, eliminating, and
preventing the reemergence of domestic vio-
lence.
This bill expands grants under the Public
Health Service Act to support implementation
of training programs to improve the capacity of
early childhood programs to address domestic
violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
stalking among the families they serve; pre-
serves and expands housing protections for
survivors; provides economic security assist-
ance for survivors, by reauthorizing the Na-
tional Resource Center on Workplace Re-
sponses; protects employees from being fired
because they are survivors of sexual assault
or domestic violence; and protects survivors’
eligibility to receive Unemployment Insurance.
Recognizing that many women are victim-
ized at the hands of intimate partners, this
iteration of VAWA helps prevent ‘‘intimate
partner’’ homicides, by including provisions ex-
panding firearms laws to prohibit persons con-
victed of dating violence from possessing fire-
arms, prohibiting persons convicted of mis-
demeanor stalking from possessing firearms,
and prohibiting individuals subject to ex parte
protective orders from possessing firearms.
Accordingly, the bill helps protect Native
American women, by including provisions to
improve the response to missing and mur-
dered Native American women, improving trib-
al access to federal crime information data-
bases, and reaffirming tribal criminal jurisdic-
tion over non-Indian perpetrators of domestic
violence, sexual assault, dating violence, stalk-
ing, and trafficking for all federally recognized
Indian tribes and Alaskan Natives.
Additionally, this bill protects the Office on
Violence Against Women in the Department of
Justice from being de-emphasized, merged, or
consolidated into any other DOJ office.
VAWA is central to our nation’s effort to
fight the epidemic of domestic, sexual, and
dating violence and stalking.
This work did not happen on its own.
It was the product of a collaborative effort of
stakeholders, including victim advocates.
It was the product of those willing to share
their stories of the abuse suffered at the
hands of those who were entrusted to love,
but instead harmed.
The courage, strength, and resilience dis-
played by survivors has reminded all that we
must continue to foster an environment for vic-
tims of violence to come forward and expose
episodes of violence against women.
This bill represents the good that can come
when courageous people with a story to tell
come forward with the belief that through their
pain, the lives of others can be helped.
Having listened to concerned stakeholders
from all pockets of the country, we have put
pen to paper and produced a bill that is en-
dorsed by the bipartisan National Task Force
to End Sexual and Domestic Violence (NTF),
which is a national collaboration comprising a
large and diverse group of 35 national, tribal,
state, territorial, and local organizations, advo-
cates, and individuals that focus on the devel-
opment, passage and implementation of effec-
tive public policy to address domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
stalking.
Indeed, there is no reason our work on this
cannot be bipartisan, as has been the custom
of prior Congresses in authorizing this critical
piece of legislation.
The love for a spouse, the comfort of a
mother and the best wishes for a sister know
no political allegiance.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, may I in-
quire how much time we have remain-
ing?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Arizona has 101⁄2 min-
utes remaining. The gentlewoman from
Pennsylvania has 61⁄2 minutes remain-
ing.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. ROY), my good friend.
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentlewoman from Arizona for yielding
time.
Mr. Speaker, the Violence Against
Women Act we are voting on this week
is nearly unrecognizable from the leg-
islation originally passed in 1994. Un-
fortunately, our colleagues on the
other side of the aisle have chosen to
politicize and expand the legislation
far beyond the original scope by adding
controversial provisions that under-
mine the constitutional rights of
Americans.
In the name of protecting women,
Democrats are exploiting this bill as an
opportunity to assault the Second
Amendment rights of American citi-
zens. It is despicable that anyone
would seize on this as such an oppor-
tunity to weaponize a measure that
was intended to protect victims.
This body is not meant to fulfill cam-
paign promises that have nothing to do
with the legislation allegedly before
us. And let’s make no mistake, that is
what the purpose of this legislation is
today. It is being structured inten-
tionally. They are structuring it inten-
tionally to be able to run campaign ads
in districts back home, because you
have got a piece of legislation that is
titled the Violence Against Women
Act. So let’s just bury stuff in a bill
that sounds good to the American peo-
ple, but which then attacks our funda-
mental God-given rights reflected in
the Bill of Rights.
Now, the gentlewoman from Texas
who just spoke, my friend from Texas,
just spoke about fiddling while Rome
burns. Well, let’s talk about the fid-
dling that is going on on our southern
border while women and girls are trav-
eling miles up to our southern border
being abused by cartels.
When Amnesty International and
when organizations that are non-
partisan are talking about a third of
these women being abused, my friends
on the other side of the aisle bury their
head in the sand and don’t seem to
care.
When we are talking about violence
against women, let’s talk about the vi-
olence against women that is hap-
pening today, right now, just across
the border in Reynosa. Just across the
border in Mexico, some little girl and
some woman is going to be raped and
abused, while we sit and vote on legis-
lation that is designed to be a political
tool by my colleagues on the other side
of the aisle against the GOP for polit-
ical purposes.
I think we should not be fiddling
while Rome is burning and while
women are being abused on our south-
ern border.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, the
NRA has spent a lot of money to create
this distraction, making this about
them as opposed to protecting the lives
of women. Over 50 percent of women
murdered in 2017 were slain by an inti-
mate partner or family member; 82 per-
cent of homicide victims targeted by
intimate partners are women; the
weapon of choice in over half of female
homicides, a firearm.
This is an opportunity to support
both saving the lives of women and re-
sponsible gun ownership.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentlewoman from New York (Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY).
(Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York asked and was given permis-
sion to revise and extend her remarks.)
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman for yielding and for her out-
standing work on this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of this rule and the underlying bill,
H.R. 1585, the Violence Against Women
Reauthorization Act of 2019.
I want to be associated with the re-
marks that the gentlewoman just gave
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.006 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3000 April 3, 2019
that this is about protecting women,
and the addition that says that if you
take away guns from convicted abusers
or those who are being watched and
being restrained, this will save lives.
So this is an important part of pro-
tecting women.
VAWA is a law that literally, abso-
lutely literally, saves lives, and this
bill we are voting on today provides
even more lifesaving resources to
women and families, like closing the
boyfriend loophole that she just men-
tioned and providing housing and beds
for abused women.
It is important to point out that this
landmark legislation was created in
1994 and has been reauthorized many
times. But I would say that protecting
women or providing lifesaving re-
sources should be permanent law. We
should not have to come back to this
body and be subject to the whims of
legislators who don’t think it is impor-
tant to protect women, which this bill
does.
One of the lifesaving resources in this
bill is the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog
Grant Program, which was created by
legislation I first authored in 2004, and
it is renewed in this bill through 2024.
This legislation, which has been
called the most important anti-rape
prevention legislation ever signed into
law, provides funding to localities to
audit and process DNA evidence kits,
including unprocessed rape kits. Each
rape kit represents a life. If you con-
vict that rapist and get them off the
street, you save the lives of other
women and prevent rape. This is just
one example of this important bill.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from West
Virginia (Mrs. MILLER), my good
friend.
Mrs. MILLER. Mr. Speaker, I am ris-
ing today to speak against the rule for
H.R. 1585. Domestic violence is a major
problem in our communities and
throughout our country. I am in com-
plete support of providing all the re-
sources needed to the victims of abuse
and for the law enforcement that pro-
tects these vulnerable women.
What could have been an opportunity
to work together as a unified House of
Representatives and to provide a great
bill that we can all be proud of, our col-
leagues across the aisle dismissed our
input on during the legislative process,
silenced our voices, and put forth a bill
which strikes the unique balance of
overreaching where it is unnecessary
and underperforming where resources
are needed the most.
I don’t dispute that my Democrat
colleagues are well-intentioned with
their legislation, but they missed the
mark. In this bill, they diluted impor-
tant funds meant to help the victims,
handcuffed our law enforcement, and
reduced their effectiveness. Addition-
ally, they have taken a bipartisan issue
and used it to weaken the Second
Amendment, reduce religious freedoms,
and even possibly cause further harm
to victims.
As a woman, a wife, and a mother, as
well as a grandmother, who represents
a State where one in three women are
victims of domestic violence, I say
with assurance that my Republican
colleagues are committed to reauthor-
izing the Violence Against Women Act
in a way that preserves and strength-
ens the law, provides the needed sup-
port for victims of domestic abuse, and
strengthens our judicial system. We
want to work together on this issue
which affects so many people around
the country. We can put forth a good
bill together.
I have often said that good govern-
ance is finding the issues that we can
all agree upon, Republicans and Demo-
crats alike, and put aside our dif-
ferences to come together, solve the
problem, and make this country better.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentle-
woman from West Virginia.
Mrs. MILLER. So, put aside our dif-
ferences to come together, solve the
problem, and make this country better
than before we got here. This could
have been that chance. We can do bet-
ter.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote against the rule and vote against
the underlying bill.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. LEE).
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding,
and also for her tremendous leadership.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of H.R. 1585, the Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act.
This critical bill will expand crucial
protections for all Americans making
very important enhancements to
VAWA.
When I was in the California legisla-
ture, Mr. Speaker, I authored the Vio-
lence Against Women Act for the State
of California, and, yes, it was signed by
a Republican Governor.
In addition to the protections this
bill has provided for 26 years, it will
now expand protections for Native
American women and will protect the
transgender community. Every woman
has the right to live free from abuse.
Although my Republican colleagues
argued differently in committee, sex-
ual orientation or gender identity
should not put victims in a second-
class status. This bill will now make
sure that every victim of sexual vio-
lence has access to support.
VAWA is critical for the 1.3 million
individuals who benefit from this pro-
gram. We must continue to improve
these services for victims and survivors
by passing this bill here today.
Mr. Speaker, I know from personal
experiences, yes, the life-and-death im-
plications of this very important bill.
So I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes’’
on this bill to ensure that all women
are protected from sexual and domestic
violence.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, may I in-
quire on the time remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Arizona has 6 minutes
remaining. The gentlewoman from
Pennsylvania has 21⁄2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1330
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
If we defeat the previous question, I
will offer an amendment to the rule to
provide additional consideration of
H.R. 1741, authored by Representative
ELISE STEFANIK.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent to insert the text of my amend-
ment in the RECORD, along with extra-
neous material, immediately prior to
the vote on the previous question.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Arizona?
There was no objection.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 1741
is a bill that would provide a 1-year ex-
tension of VAWA while we work on ne-
gotiating a long-term reauthorization
of VAWA. I think there are a lot of
things that the Republicans and Demo-
crats can agree on, and I would like to
come up with a bipartisan bill.
During the Rules Committee, my col-
league, Representative WOODALL, asked
the Democrat witness if the majority
would consider moving a short-term
extension if the U.S. Senate does not
take this bill up. The witness could not
answer the question.
This is a dangerous gamble the Dem-
ocrat majority is willing to play. We
have received no indication that the
U.S. Senate will use this bill as a start-
ing point or move quickly on this lib-
eral proposal, leaving VAWA unneces-
sarily expired during the meantime.
The Democrats are in control and
have the votes to pass their bill; how-
ever, they are putting the lives of mil-
lions of women in jeopardy by gam-
bling on what the Senate will do. We
should not be gambling.
The Democrat majority has already
passed up a short-term extension once
via a vote, and the program has lapsed.
There is no reason why we should not
send an additional option that the Sen-
ate can take up quickly to keep the
program functioning.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, we all—Re-
publicans and Democrats—want to pro-
tect women and children and stop vio-
lence against women, but, unfortu-
nately, this particular bill advances a
separate policy agenda other than that.
The long history of bipartisanship of
VAWA will become a thing of the past
with this bill. This bill leaves gaping
holes for potential predators to vic-
timize women and children in areas
that are supposed to be safe.
It advances new gun control policies
to permanently restrict people from
exercising their Second Amendment
rights or does so without that person
even being able to defend themselves in
court.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.022 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3001
April 3, 2019
It deprioritizes funding to combat sex
trafficking and includes various new
forms of criminal justice policy that
could let perpetrators walk or have op-
portunities to revictimize women and
children.
As a survivor of domestic violence, I
want to see a VAWA reauthorization
that focuses on women and children
and keeps our country safe. We should
be voting on legislation which all
women of this Chamber could support;
however, this bill is not that.
Mr. Speaker, I urge ‘‘no’’ on the pre-
vious question, ‘‘no’’ on the underlying
measure, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
I have to rebut my colleague’s re-
peated assertion that this iteration of
VAWA would violate the Second
Amendment because it fails to offer an
opportunity for abusers to protest hav-
ing their guns taken away—and the
gentlewoman said this several times in
the course of debate—on the basis that
ex parte orders are often entered
against abusers.
But, in fact, in every instance, even
if an initial order is an ex parte, the
abuser has the right to request a hear-
ing, including in Arizona, where title
12, section 1809 provides that anyone
who has a protection order entered
against them can file a written request
for a hearing, and that is when they get
their due process. So I just want to
point that out.
The purpose of the Violence Against
Women Act is today as it was when it
was passed in 1994: to keep women safe
from domestic abuse. It remains a
piece of bipartisan landmark legisla-
tion.
Ms. JACKSON LEE detailed the number
of Republican amendments and bills
that have been incorporated into this
version, so it is a shining example of
what Congress can accomplish when we
set aside our partisan differences and
work together to find actual solutions.
VAWA has dramatically improved
our Nation’s response to domestic vio-
lence and has provided invaluable sup-
port to victims, communities, social
service providers, and law enforcement.
It is working.
We won’t solve domestic violence
overnight, nor will we end it with the
passage of a bill, but we can continue
to change the culture of violence
against women and provide the support
that survivors need.
The two constituents I spoke of in
my opening never should have experi-
enced the violence that was inflicted
upon them; but it is not enough to con-
demn what was done or to charge those
responsible, no. We must change the
conditions to allow such acts of vio-
lence to occur.
We can look at the facts and we can
look at the research so we create poli-
cies and pass laws to better protect
women from abusers, and this reau-
thorization is a bold step in the right
direction.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
the rule and the previous question.
The material previously referred to
by Mrs. LESKO is as follows:
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 2. Immediately upon adoption of this
resolution, the House shall proceed to the
consideration in the House of the bill (H.R.
1741) to reauthorize Department of Justice
programs that combat violence against
women, and for other purposes. All points of
order against consideration of the bill are
waived. The bill shall be considered as read.
All points of order against provisions in the
bill are waived. The previous question shall
be considered as ordered on the bill and on
any amendment thereto to final passage
without intervening motion except: (1) one
hour of debate equally divided and controlled
by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee on the Judiciary; and (2)
one motion to recommit.
SEC. 3. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not
apply to the consideration of H.R. 1741.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time, and I
move the previous question on the res-
olution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on ordering the previous
question will be followed by 5-minute
votes on:
Adoption of the resolution, if or-
dered; and
Adoption of H. Res. 271.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 231, nays
193, not voting 7, as follows:
[Roll No. 144]
YEAS—231
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—193
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.023 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3002 April 3, 2019
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—7
Estes
Hoyer
McEachin
Rooney (FL)
Rutherford
Ryan
Stivers
b 1401
Messrs. WOODALL, TAYLOR, and
WESTERMAN changed their vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mr. VISCLOSKY changed his vote
from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated against:
Mr. ESTES. Mr. Speaker, I was unavoidably
detained. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 144.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 231, nays
194, not voting 6, as follows:
[Roll No. 145]
YEAS—231
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—194
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—6
Demings
McEachin
Rooney (FL)
Rutherford
Ryan
Stivers
b 1412
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CONDEMNING THE TRUMP ADMIN-
ISTRATION’S LEGAL CAMPAIGN
TO TAKE AWAY AMERICANS’
HEALTH CARE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on adoption
of the resolution (H. Res. 271) Con-
demning the Trump Administration’s
Legal Campaign to Take Away Ameri-
cans’ Health Care, on which the yeas
and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the adoption of the reso-
lution.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 240, nays
186, answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting 5,
as follows:
[Roll No. 146]
YEAS—240
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.008 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3003
April 3, 2019
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—186
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1
Gonzalez (OH)
NOT VOTING—5
McEachin
Rooney (FL)
Rutherford
Ryan
Stivers
b 1422
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. FULCHER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, and I ask for its imme-
diate consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CARSON of Indiana). Under guidelines
consistently issued by successive
Speakers, as recorded in section 956 of
the House Rules and Manual, the Chair
is constrained not to entertain the re-
quest unless it has been cleared by the
bipartisan floor and committee leader-
ships.
Mr. FULCHER. Mr. Speaker, if this
unanimous consent request cannot be
entertained, I urge that the Speaker
and the majority leader immediately
schedule the born-alive bill so that we
can stand up for the sanctity of human
life.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
f
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2019
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
sert extraneous material on H.R. 1585.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 281 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 1585.
The Chair appoints the gentleman
from California (Mr. AGUILAR) to pre-
side over the Committee of the Whole.
b 1425
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1585) to
reauthorize the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994, and for other pur-
poses, with Mr. AGUILAR in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
bill is considered read the first time.
The gentleman from New York (Mr.
NADLER) and the gentleman from Geor-
gia (Mr. COLLINS) each will control 30
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself 2 minutes.
Mr. Chairman, H.R. 1585, the Vio-
lence Against Women Reauthorization
Act of 2019, will not only reauthorize
the Violence Against Women Act, also
known as VAWA, but will also
strengthen and expand the act’s crit-
ical programs.
VAWA’s grant programs provide
communities across America the cru-
cial assistance they need to combat
crimes of domestic violence, dating vi-
olence, sexual assault, and stalking.
H.R. 1585 builds on this foundation by
enhancing the services available under
these programs and by expanding their
reach to include vulnerable popu-
lations who are victims of these
crimes.
VAWA, which is not gender exclu-
sive, addresses the needs of men and
women, children, persons with disabil-
ities, homeless persons, and LGBTQ
people, among others. Importantly,
H.R. 1585 includes new protections for
transgender individuals.
The range of individuals VAWA helps
is broad and should be as diverse as our
communities around the country. I am
pleased that this reauthorization con-
tinues our commitment to this impor-
tant principle.
This bill reauthorizes a wide variety
of grant programs, including programs
to help prosecute violent crimes
against women and to provide services
to sexual assault victims. It also
strengthens various nondiscrimination
provisions, provides greater protec-
tions for survivors during the prosecu-
tion of perpetrators, expands services
for older survivors of abuse, authorizes
programs specifically targeted toward
rural areas, strengthens protections
against gun violence in domestic abuse
situations, and expands the jurisdic-
tion of some Tribal authorities over
non-Indians who commit certain
crimes on Tribal lands.
I want to thank Ms. BASS, the chair
of the Subcommittee on Crime, Ter-
rorism, and Homeland Security and the
sponsor of this legislation, for her out-
standing leadership in the effort to re-
authorize VAWA.
I also want to thank Ms. JACKSON
LEE for her longstanding and tireless
efforts over the years to protect and
strengthen the act.
Thanks to their efforts and the ef-
forts of many others, this bill will not
only continue the progress enabled by
VAWA as originally enacted, but it will
also make the act an even more effec-
tive tool in addressing the horrible
scourge of domestic violence.
Mr. Chair, accordingly, I urge my
colleagues to support this legislation,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:39 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.011 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3004 April 3, 2019
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, March 14, 2019.
Hon. FRANK PALLONE, JR.,
Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN PALLONE: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 1585, the ‘‘Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act of
2019.’’
I appreciate your willingness to work coop-
eratively on this legislation. I recognize that
the bill contains provisions that fall within
the jurisdiction of the Committee on Energy
and Commerce. I acknowledge that your
Committee will not formally consider H.R.
1585 and agree that the inaction of your
Committee with respect to the bill does not
waive any future jurisdictional claim over
the matters contained in H.R. 1585 which fall
within your Committee’s Rule X jurisdic-
tion.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill. I appreciate
your cooperation regarding this legislation
and look forward to continuing to work with
you as this measure moves through the legis-
lative process.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE,
Washington, DC, March 21, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Chair, Committee on the Judiciary, Washington,
DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIR: I write concerning H.R.
1585, the ‘‘Violence Against Women Reau-
thorization Act of 2019,’’ as amended, which
was additionally referred to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
In recognition of the desire to expedite
consideration of H.R. 1585, the Committee on
Energy and Commerce agrees to waive for-
mal consideration of the bill as to provisions
that fall within the rule X jurisdiction of the
Committee on Energy and Commerce. The
Committee takes this action with the mu-
tual understanding that we do not waive any
jurisdiction over the subject matter con-
tained in this or similar legislation, and that
the Committee will be appropriately con-
sulted and involved as this bill or similar
legislation moves forward so that we may
address any remaining issues within our ju-
risdiction. I also request that you support
my request to name members of the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce to any con-
ference committee to consider such provi-
sions.
Finally, I would appreciate the inclusion of
this letter in the report on the bill and into
the Congressional Record during floor con-
sideration of H.R. 1585.
Sincerely,
FRANK PALLONE, JR.,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, March 14, 2019.
Hon. MAXINE WATERS,
Chairwoman, Committee on Financial Services,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN WATERS: I am writing
to you concerning H.R. 1585, the ‘‘Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act of
2019.’’
I appreciate your willingness to work coop-
eratively on this legislation. I recognize that
the bill contains provisions that fall within
the jurisdiction of the Committee on Finan-
cial Services. I acknowledge that your Com-
mittee will not formally consider H.R. 1585
and agree that the inaction of your Com-
mittee with respect to the bill does not
waive any future jurisdictional claim over
the matters contained in H.R. 1585 which fall
within your Committee’s Rule X jurisdic-
tion.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill. I appreciate
your cooperation regarding this legislation
and look forward to continuing to work with
you as this measure moves through the legis-
lative process.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES,
Washington, DC, March 21, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman, House Committee on the Judiciary,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I am writing con-
cerning H.R. 1585, the ‘‘Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2019.’’ Be-
cause you have been working with the Com-
mittee on Financial Services concerning pro-
visions in the bill that fall within our Rule
X jurisdiction, I agree to forgo formal con-
sideration of the bill so that it may proceed
expeditiously to the House floor. I do so
based on my understanding that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary will work to ensure
that the text of H.R. 1585 that will be consid-
ered by House of Representatives will in-
clude changes that are being discussed be-
tween the two Committees with respect to
certain provisions that are within the juris-
diction of the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices, provided that the relevant texts are
submitted to the Committee on the Judici-
ary in a timely manner.
The Committee on Financial Services
takes this action to forego formal consider-
ation of H.R. 1585 with our mutual under-
standing that, by foregoing formal consider-
ation of H.R. 1585 at this time, we do not
waive any jurisdiction over the subject mat-
ter contained in this or similar legislation,
and that our Committee will be appro-
priately consulted and involved as this or
similar legislation moves forward. Our Com-
mittee also reserves the right to seek ap-
pointment of an appropriate number of con-
ferees to any House-Senate conference in-
volving this or similar legislation and re-
quest your support for any such request.
Finally, I would appreciate your response
to this letter confirming this understanding,
and, while I understand that your letter to
the Committee and my response will be in-
cluded in the Committee report on H.R. 1585,
I would ask that a copy of our exchange of
letters on this matter be included in the
Congressional Record during floor consider-
ation of H.R. 1585.
Sincerely,
MAXINE WATERS,
Chairwoman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, March 21, 2019.
Hon. MAXINE WATERS,
Chairwoman, Committee on Financial Services,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN WATERS: I am writing
to acknowledge your letter dated March 21,
2019 responding to our request to your Com-
mittee that it waive any jurisdictional
claims over the matters contained in H.R.
1585, the ‘‘Violence Against Women Reau-
thorization Act of 2019,’’ that fall within
your Committee’s Rule X jurisdiction. The
Committee on the Judiciary confirms our
mutual understanding that your Committee
does not waive any jurisdiction over the sub-
ject matter contained in this or similar leg-
islation, and your Committee will be appro-
priately consulted and involved as the bill or
similar legislation moves forward so that we
may address any remaining issues within
your Committee’s jurisdiction.
I will ensure that this exchange of letters
is included in the Congressional Record dur-
ing floor consideration of the bill. I appre-
ciate your cooperation regarding this legis-
lation and look forward to continuing to
work with you as this measure moves
through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, March 14, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD NEAL,
Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NEAL: I am writing to you
concerning H.R. 1585, the ‘‘Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2019.’’
I appreciate your willingness to work coop-
eratively on this legislation. I recognize that
the bill contains provisions that fall within
the jurisdiction of the Committee on Ways
and Means. I acknowledge that your Com-
mittee will not formally consider H.R. 1585
and agree that the inaction of your Com-
mittee with respect to the bill does not
waive any future jurisdictional claim over
the matters contained in H.R. 1585 which fall
within your Committee’s Rule X jurisdic-
tion.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill. I appreciate
your cooperation regarding this legislation
and look forward to continuing to work with
you as this measure moves through the legis-
lative process.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS,
Washington, DC, March 18, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary, Wash-
ington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NADLER: In recognition of
the desire to expedite consideration of H.R.
1585, Violence Against Women Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2019, the Committee on Ways and
Means agrees to waive formal consideration
of the bill as to provisions that fall within
the rule X jurisdiction of the Committee on
Ways and Means.
The Committee on Ways and Means takes
this action with the mutual understanding
that we do not waive any jurisdiction over
the subject matter contained in this or simi-
lar legislation, and the Committee will be
appropriately consulted and involved as the
bill or similar legislation moves forward so
that we may address any remaining issues
within our jurisdiction. The Committee also
reserves the right to seek appointment of an
appropriate number of conferees to any
House-Senate conference involving this or
similar legislation.
Finally, I would appreciate your response
to this letter confirming this understanding,
and would ask that a copy of our exchange of
letter on this matter be included in the Con-
gressional Record during floor consideration
of H.R. 1585.
Sincerely,
RICHARD E. NEAL,
Chairman.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:39 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.013 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3005
April 3, 2019
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, March 21, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD NEAL,
Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NEAL: I am writing to ac-
knowledge your letter dated March 18, 2019
responding to our request to your Committee
that it waive any jurisdictional claims over
the matters contained in H.R. 1585, the ‘‘Vio-
lence Against Women Reauthorization Act of
2019,’’ that fall within your Committee’s
Rule X jurisdiction. The Committee on the
Judiciary confirms our mutual under-
standing that your Committee does not
waive any jurisdiction over the subject mat-
ter contained in this or similar legislation,
and your Committee will be appropriately
consulted and involved as the bill or similar
legislation moves forward so that we may
address any remaining issues within your
Committee’s jurisdiction.
I will ensure that this exchange of letters
is included in the Congressional Record dur-
ing floor consideration of the bill. I appre-
ciate your cooperation regarding this legis-
lation and look forward to continuing to
work with you as this measure moves
through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, March 14, 2019.
Hon. BOBBY SCOTT,
Chairman, Committee on Education and Labor,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN SCOTT: I am writing to you
concerning H.R. 1585, the ‘‘Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2019.’’
I appreciate your willingness to work coop-
eratively on this legislation. I recognize that
the bill contains provisions that fall within
the jurisdiction of the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor. I acknowledge that your
Committee will not formally consider H.R.
1585 and agree that the inaction of your
Committee with respect to the bill does not
waive any future jurisdictional claim over
the matters contained in H.R. 1585 which fall
within your Committee’s Rule X jurisdic-
tion.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill. I appreciate
your cooperation regarding this legislation
and look forward to continuing to work with
you as this measure moves through the legis-
lative process.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION AND
LABOR, HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES,
Washington, DC, March 20, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman, House Committee on the Judiciary,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NADLER: I write con-
cerning H.R. 1585, the ‘‘Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2019.’’ This
bill was primarily referred to the Committee
on the Judiciary and secondarily to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor. As a result
of your having consulted with me concerning
this bill generally, I agree to forgo consider-
ation of the bill in Committee so the bill
may proceed expeditiously to the House
floor.
The Committee takes this action with our
mutual understanding that by foregoing con-
sideration of H.R. 1585, we do not waive any
jurisdiction over the subject matter con-
tained in this or similar legislation, and we
will be, appropriately consulted and involved
as the bill or similar legislation moves for-
ward so we may address any remaining issue
within our Rule X jurisdiction. Additionally,
I respectfully request your support for the
appointment of conferees from the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor should this
bill or similar language be considered in a
conference with the Senate.
Finally, I would appreciate a response con-
firming this understanding and ask that a
copy of our exchange of letters on this mat-
ter be included in the Congressional Record
during floor consideration of H.R. 1585.
Respectfully,
ROBERT C. ‘‘BOBBY’’ SCOTT,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, March 21, 2019.
Hon. BOBBY SCOTT,
Chairman, Committee on Education and Labor,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN SCOTT: I am writing to ac-
knowledge your letter dated March 20, 2019
responding to our request to your Committee
that it waive any jurisdictional claims over
the matters contained in H.R. 1585, the ‘‘Vio-
lence Against Women Reauthorization Act of
2019,’’ that fall within your Committee’s
Rule X jurisdiction. The Committee on the
Judiciary confirms our mutual under-
standing that your Committee does not
waive any jurisdiction over the subject mat-
ter contained in this or similar legislation,
and your Committee will be appropriately
consulted and involved as the bill or similar
legislation moves forward so that we may
address any remaining issues within your
Committee’s jurisdiction.
I will ensure that this exchange of letters
is included in the Congressional Record dur-
ing floor consideration of the bill. I appre-
ciate your cooperation regarding this legis-
lation and look forward to continuing to
work with you as this measure moves
through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, March 14, 2019.
Hon. RAÚL GRIJALVA,
Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN GRIJALVA: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 1585, the ‘‘Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act of
2019.’’
I appreciate your willingness to work coop-
eratively on this legislation. I recognize that
the bill contains provisions that fall within
the jurisdiction of the Committee on Natural
Resources. I acknowledge that your Com-
mittee will not formally consider H.R. 1585
and agree that the inaction of your Com-
mittee with respect to the bill does not
waive any future jurisdictional claim over
the matters contained in H.R. 1585 which fall
within your Committee’s Rule X jurisdic-
tion.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill. I appreciate
your cooperation regarding this legislation
and look forward to continuing to work with
you as this measure moves through the legis-
lative process.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON NATURAL RESOURCES,
Washington, DC, March 18, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Chair, Committee on the Judiciary,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIR: I write concerning H.R.
1585, the ‘‘Violence Against Women Reau-
thorization Act of 2019,’’ as amended, which
was additionally referred to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
I will allow the Committee on Natural Re-
sources to be discharged from further consid-
eration of the bill. I do so with the under-
standing that the Committee does not waive
any jurisdictional claim over the subject
matters contained in the bill that fall within
its Rule X jurisdiction. I also request that
you support my request to name members of
the Committee on Natural Resources to any
conference committee to consider such pro-
visions. Finally, please include this letter in
the report on the bill and into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor.
I appreciate your cooperation regarding
this legislation and look forward to con-
tinuing to work with you as this measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
RAÚL GRIJALVA,
Chair, Committee on Natural Resources.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, March 14, 2019.
Hon. MARK TAKANO,
Chairman, Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN TAKANO: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 1585, the ‘‘Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act of
2019.’’
I appreciate your willingness to work coop-
eratively on this legislation. I recognize that
the bill contains provisions that fall within
the jurisdiction of the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs. I acknowledge that your Com-
mittee will not formally consider H.R. 1585
and agree that the inaction of your Com-
mittee with respect to the bill does not
waive any future jurisdictional claim over
the matters contained in H.R. 1585 which fall
within your Committee’s Rule X jurisdic-
tion.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill. I appreciate
your cooperation regarding this legislation
and look forward to continuing to work with
you as this measure moves through the legis-
lative process.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON VETERANS’ AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, March 18, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary, House
of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NADLER: I write con-
cerning H.R. 1585, the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2019. As a re-
sult of your having consulted with us on pro-
visions within H.R. 1585 that fall within the
Rule X jurisdiction of the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs, I forego any further consider-
ation of this bill so that it may proceed expe-
ditiously to the House floor for consider-
ation.
The Committee on Veterans’ Affairs takes
this action with our mutual understanding
that by foregoing consideration of H.R. 1585
at this time, we do not waive any jurisdic-
tion over subject matter contained in this or
similar legislation and that our committee
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.012 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3006 April 3, 2019
will be appropriately consulted and involved
as this bill or similar legislation moves for-
ward so that we may address any remaining
issues in our jurisdiction. Further I request
your support for the appointment of con-
ferees from the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs during any House-Senate conference
convened on this or related legislation.
Finally, I ask that a copy of our exchange
of letters on this matter be included in the
bill report filed by the Judiciary Committee,
as well as in the Congressional Record dur-
ing floor consideration, to memorialize our
understanding.
Sincerely,
MARK TAKANO,
Chairman.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Chair, I rise today in opposition
to H.R. 1585, the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act.
Mr. Chair, I support reauthorization
of the Violence Against Women Act. I
believe the intent of this legislation is
commendable, and many of the pro-
grams it authorizes are critical.
This is a bill that should be and
should have broad bipartisan support.
It is a bill that should transcend the
political games which we see too often
in Washington, and we should approach
it methodically and wholistically.
Unfortunately, instead of good faith
collaboration, my colleagues across the
aisle have doubled down on partisan
politics at the expense of good policy.
They have sought, at every turn, to
make this bill into a political weapon
rather than a critical resource for vic-
tims and tools to support law enforce-
ment.
I tried to meet with my Democratic
colleagues to negotiate a meaningful
reauthorization of VAWA. We tried to
engage with other Members in bipar-
tisan, bicameral negotiations, although
our efforts were rebuffed, and we were
handed the flawed bill that is before us
today. My colleagues across the aisle
informed us H.R. 1585 would be the bill.
This is particularly unfortunate be-
cause this bill is dead on arrival in the
Senate.
There are areas where both sides can
agree, areas where we can strengthen
existing law. Instead of seeking out
those areas and negotiating in good
faith, they have decided a highly par-
tisan bill with zero chance of moving
forward in the Senate was the best way
to approach reauthorizing crucial
VAWA programs.
b 1430
Remember, Republicans tried to add
a short-term extension of VAWA to the
funding bill in February when Con-
gresswoman LESKO offered it as a pre-
vious question. Democrats blocked this
attempt and refused to include a short-
term extension to allow time for mean-
ingful negotiations to take place.
Mr. Chairman, my colleagues and I
want to find a solution that helps vic-
tims, prevents domestic violence, and
strengthens programs that serve vul-
nerable populations. We stand willing
and ready to discuss ways to do that.
But I cannot and will not support a
bill that undermines and jeopardizes
due process; that curtails prosecutorial
discretion; that makes it more difficult
for victims in rural areas to find hous-
ing; that could weaken programs for fe-
male victims; that could re-victimize
abused women; and that undercuts the
Second Amendment rights.
This bill contains a large expansion
of unemployment insurance benefits,
which amounts to a new tax on em-
ployers. This bill continues to expand
the focus of programs past women and
children; and this bill fails to provide a
faith-based exemption for grant recipi-
ents, which could jeopardize these or-
ganizations’ ability to provide services
for victims.
Mr. Chairman, this legislation was
referred to seven committees. The bill
was rushed to markup at the Judiciary
Committee, but at least Judiciary ac-
tually had a markup. Even though the
rushed markup ended in a party-line
vote, that markup is far more than the
Democrats gave the other committees
of jurisdiction.
The Ways and Means Committee is
the committee with expertise in unem-
ployment insurance benefits, but if you
are on that committee, Democrats de-
nied you the chance to weigh in on
that issue at committee, and Ameri-
cans didn’t get to benefit from your ex-
pertise there.
The Financial Services Committee is
the committee with expertise on hous-
ing issues. But if you are on that com-
mittee, you were shut down as well;
this bill moving ahead without the ben-
efit of your consideration.
Democrats also denied the Natural
Resources, Education and Labor, Vet-
erans’ Affairs, and Energy and Com-
merce Committees the chance to weigh
in on a bill with provisions that sit
squarely within their jurisdiction.
I want to reauthorize the Violence
Against Women Act. I want to do it in
a way that meets the fundamental
goals and intent of the original law,
and I want to recognize changes that
need to be addressed.
Simply put, I want to find a bipar-
tisan, bicameral agreement that Demo-
crats shunned when they rushed this
bill to the floor. This bill could actu-
ally put women at greater risk in some
of the programs it authorizes, and it is
not a solution that I can support.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Florida (Mrs. DEMINGS), the vice-chair
of the Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland
Security Subcommittee.
Mrs. DEMINGS. Mr. Chairman, some
of the hardest calls law enforcement
officers take are intimate partner vio-
lence calls. These situations are heart-
breaking, volatile, dangerous, and far
too commonplace. Domestic violence
affects every community and crosses
all racial and socioeconomic lines. It is
heartbreaking and even more tragic be-
cause domestic violence is often pre-
ventable. That is the purpose of the Vi-
olence Against Women Act.
One in five homicides in Florida is a
result of domestic violence. In 2016,
over 100,000 domestic violence incidents
were reported to police in Florida.
Since I began my remarks, three
women have been beaten, battered, or
murdered.
Mr. Chairman, these calls are ex-
tremely dangerous for everyone in-
volved. When law enforcement responds
to these calls, they too are put at great
risk. In 2017, more officers were shot
responding to domestic violence calls
than any other type of call.
All too often, it is a first responder,
family member, neighbor, or other
loved one who is killed in a domestic
violence incident. In fact, these deaths
make up 1 of 5 domestic violence homi-
cide victims.
We have to train, equip, and empower
law enforcement, healthcare providers,
and other responders to address inti-
mate partner violence. These programs
have already proven effective.
Grantees funded by VAWA have
trained nearly 90,000 law enforcement
officers in best practices and tech-
niques to handle these sensitive situa-
tions. But the VAWA reauthorization
is not just about continuing these suc-
cessful programs. It also makes addi-
tional improvements which will save
lives of victims and responders.
Nationwide, the presence of a gun in
a domestic violence situation makes it
five times more likely that someone
will be killed.
The VAWA reauthorization will help
law enforcement disarm dangerous peo-
ple and convicted felons, create new
notification systems for law enforce-
ment, address the so-called ‘‘boyfriend
loophole’’ that lets non-married but
dangerous partners get weapons.
The Violence Against Women Act re-
authorization is a critical step to our
efforts to protect these Americans; and
I urge my colleagues to support this
critical and necessary legislation.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I yield 3 minutes to the gentle-
woman from Arizona (Mrs. LESKO).
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Chairman, I am a
survivor of domestic violence from a
previous marriage. I serve on the advi-
sory council of a domestic violence
shelter in my district. I am the co-
chairwoman of the Working Group
Against Domestic Violence in Con-
gress.
So if you haven’t figured it out, this
issue is very important to me and I
want to protect women.
Another role I have is, I am co-chair-
woman of the Congressional Women’s
Caucus. And in that, I spoke with my
Democratic colleague, and she knew it
was an important issue to me, it was
an important issue to her, and we real-
ly had talked about having a bipartisan
approach that all women and all of us
could vote on that we would agree on.
So once I found out that Representa-
tive BASS was going to be the sponsor
of the bill, I reached out to her office.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.018 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3007
April 3, 2019
We were trying to—we just never were
able to get together before the Judici-
ary Committee markup on the bill, in
the attempt to talk with her, to see if
she would listen to my concerns.
Then, in the Judiciary Committee, I
offered an amendment that basically
would make sure that domestic vio-
lence shelters could protect the vic-
tims and keep their privacy private.
And that amendment was rejected, and
I was told that it was too broad, and
those types of things.
So in that Judiciary Committee
hearing I asked Representative BASS if
she would be agreeable to meeting with
me, so I could work with her to do an
amendment in a bipartisan fashion to
protect women and children, and she
said absolutely, yes. And, again, I
reached out to her office on at least
two occasions and never got a response.
So I have really tried to work on this
in a bipartisan fashion, because there
are some concerns I have. And let me
tell you the reason why I am going to
vote ‘‘no’’ on this bill, even though I
am a survivor of domestic violence.
First of all, the bill forces domestic
violence shelters, under penalty of Fed-
eral law, this law, to house biological
males in with women. And often these
women have been abused themselves,
and they may not—this may violate
their privacy, and it may have risks.
The second reason is this bill forces
prisons to take in biological males,
under penalty of Federal law, and put
them in women’s prisons. In the United
Kingdom this happened, and a male
identifying as a woman was placed in a
woman’s prison and ended up raping
women.
The third reason is this bill takes
away gun rights.
The CHAIR. The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. I yield the
gentlewoman from Arizona as much
time as she may consume.
Mrs. LESKO. This bill, thirdly, also
takes away gun rights in 2 cases: One
with ex parte orders of protection; that
is when a woman, like myself, would go
in to see a Justice of the Peace; we
would get an order of protection. Under
this bill, the perpetrator’s gun rights
would be taken away, even though they
weren’t there in court.
Also, it would take away someone’s
gun rights if they were convicted of a
misdemeanor, which is very rare.
So, again, I don’t think this bill is
going to get heard in the U.S. Senate,
which, I hope that my friends on the
other side of the aisle—this is an im-
portant issue to all of us, and I hope
that we can work together so it is
something that I can support, some-
thing that we all can support, because
it is a really important issue.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Mrs. DINGELL).
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Chair, I rise to
discuss the urgent need for Congress to
update the Violence Against Women
Act and the lifesaving programs it sup-
ports.
I have a great deal of respect for my
co-chair of the Domestic Violence Task
Force, but we disagree very strongly on
what this bill does.
No woman, no child, and no family
should fear for their life because of do-
mestic violence. Without updates and
support for the critical programs in
VAWA, we are moving backwards.
Good programs that are there to help
victims are now threatened, and it is
one more stress being added on to the
pile of these victims, and one more fear
that we just add to them.
In one 24-hour period in Michigan,
domestic violence programs answered
408 hotline calls of people in immediate
danger, and served 2,359 victims with
emergency shelter, transitional hous-
ing, counseling, and legal advice.
The bill before us today is landmark
legislation that will respond to our Na-
tion’s crisis of domestic violence, dat-
ing violence, sexual assault, and stalk-
ing. It will equip our State and local
partners to provide compassionate care
and support to women, families, and,
yes, men, too. We need to admit that
sometimes they are victims who need
to rebuild their lives and heal.
VAWA also includes my Zero Toler-
ance for Domestic Abusers to close the
loopholes that make it easy for domes-
tic abusers and stalkers to purchase
weapons without passing a background
check.
This isn’t a poison pill. This will save
a life. Shouldn’t we be doing that?
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I yield as much time as she may
consume to the gentlewoman from
West Virginia (Mrs. MILLER).
Mrs. MILLER. Mr. Chairman, I rise
today to speak against H.R. 1585. I
stand before you as a woman, a wife, a
mother, and a grandmother. I represent
a State where one in three women ex-
perience domestic violence. This is a
scourge on our society and must stop.
The Violence Against Women Act
should have one clear goal, to protect
women from domestic abuse. Any solu-
tion put forward must provide law en-
forcement and the justice system with
the tools to do this to the best of their
ability, and to keep this objective free
from partisan manipulation, dilution of
resources, or political games. Unfortu-
nately, this bill does not do that.
My Republican colleagues, under the
leadership of Ranking Member COLLINS
and Mrs. LESKO, who has been a recipi-
ent of domestic violence, have sought
to come together with our friends
across the aisle to find a bipartisan so-
lution to help women, to no avail.
Now is not the time to play politics.
This is an issue where we can and
should find common ground. It is not
the time to hold the safety of women
as a bargaining chip against infringe-
ments on religious liberty or weak-
ening of the Second Amendment. We
can and must do better.
I urge my colleagues to vote against
this legislation and come together to
pass a bill that protects women, in-
stead of trying to use it as a political
pawn.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from
Rhode Island (Mr. CICILLINE), a distin-
guished member of the Judiciary Com-
mittee.
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Chairman, I am
a proud sponsor of the Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act of
2019.
Violence against women is one of our
country’s greatest shames. For over 20
years, VAWA has provided critical pro-
tections for survivors of violence, while
also helping them rebuild their lives.
VAWA grants help survivors to ac-
cess vital resources such as legal as-
sistance, safe housing, and counseling.
VAWA also facilitates important part-
nerships between advocates, law en-
forcement, and the courts, which fur-
ther helps survivors in times of crisis
and reduces future violence.
In 2018 alone, because of VAWA
grants, the Rhode Island Coalition
Against Domestic Violence served over
8,500 individual victims of domestic vi-
olence, assisted over 2,900 victims in
obtaining a restraining order, and an-
swered over 13,000 crisis line calls.
H.R. 1585 improves upon VAWA by
prohibiting persons convicted of dating
violence or misdemeanor stalking from
possessing firearms. And let’s be hon-
est. This is the principal objection of
my colleagues on the other side of the
aisle, because the powerful gun lobby is
scoring this bill because of that provi-
sion.
This bill protects employees from
being fired because they are survivors
of sexual assault or domestic violence
and ensures survivors’ eligibility to re-
ceive unemployment insurance.
b 1445
Survivors of violence and their fami-
lies cannot wait any longer as VAWA
continues to stay lapsed.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill in a bipartisan way so
that the American people can see ac-
tion by Congress, Republicans and
Democrats who are standing up, loudly
condemning violence against women,
and reauthorizing VAWA in a new and
improved way so that we can really
take on the issue of domestic violence
and all the pernicious consequences of
violence against women in this coun-
try.
Stand up to the gun lobby. Do what
is right for women in America.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
yield as much time as he may consume
to the gentleman from Texas (Mr. GOH-
MERT).
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Chair, I rise out
of concern for violence that has been
done against women.
As someone who has prosecuted such
things and has sentenced many men to
prison for such things, I want to be
part of the solution toward mitigating
and stopping the violence against
women, but I can’t vote for this bill in
its current form when politics, as my
friends have said, have been played
with it here, because I have heard the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.034 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3008 April 3, 2019
testimony repeatedly, as a judge, from
experts.
I have read the studies. The lit-
erature, psychiatric literature, indi-
cates that the studies show that
women who have been through sexual
assault are more likely to experience
post-traumatic stress disorder than
even soldiers, on a percentage basis.
One of the things that can trigger the
trauma coming back is a man coming
into a confined space like a restroom,
like a dressing room, like a battered
women’s shelter, and they are living it
again.
Why would we do that? Why would
we have a bill that forces that kind of
trauma back on women who have been
through enough?
This bill, in the name of equality,
says women are not going to be able to
have a safe place from biological men.
No. We are going to force them, and
under this bill, there will be lawsuits.
A homeless shelter, a shelter for bat-
tered women, and it is shocking how
much of this still goes on, but they will
be subject to lawsuits if this bill be-
comes law.
You will have people, the government
with all its power, forcing shelters for
battered women to accept biological
men, no matter how traumatic it is for
the women who have suffered domestic
abuse from men, sexual assault from
men.
For heaven’s sake, can’t we com-
promise in the name of really helping
women?
I understand the concern from my
colleagues across the aisle is that we
don’t want to hurt the feelings of
someone who is biologically a man who
thinks they are a woman. We don’t
want to hurt their feelings; therefore,
it is worth the risk of all the trauma
that will be relived by women by forc-
ing men into those confined situations.
There are other alternatives instead of
making women suffer more than they
already have.
This Violence Against Women Act,
the way it is currently written in its
current form, will do additional vio-
lence to women. It is something that I
just can’t support.
Mr. Chair, I wish my friends would
worry about the concerns for men who
think they are women and suffering
from gender dysphoria in some other
bill. Let’s use this one to protect
women.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from
Georgia (Mrs. MCBATH), a distinguished
member of the Judiciary Committee.
Mrs. MCBATH. Mr. Chairman, I will
be short and to the point.
The number one way that women in
America are being killed by their inti-
mate partners is with a gun. We cannot
address the epidemic of gender-based
violence without addressing gun vio-
lence.
The NRA sees it differently. They
don’t want us to close the boyfriend
loophole. They don’t want to keep fire-
arms out of the hands of those whose
actions show that they are a threat.
Their solution to gun violence is by
arming women, selling more guns, even
though we know that this would make
women less safe.
Nearly 1 million American women
alive today have been shot or shot at
by an intimate partner. They deserve
better.
Mr. Chair, I ask my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes’’ to reauthorize the Violence
Against Women Act for those we have
lost, for those who have survived, and
for the safety of all Americans.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from Vir-
ginia (Ms. WEXTON).
Ms. WEXTON. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Chair, as a former domestic vio-
lence prosecutor and advocate for
abused women, I have seen firsthand
the impact of the Violence Against
Women Act’s legal protections and sur-
vivor support services. Because of this
law, survivors can access a national
hotline, a network of shelters, and get
protection orders that carry across
State lines.
The bill before us today will close the
boyfriend loophole by stopping abusers
and stalkers from obtaining firearms.
The NRA thinks this language is too
broad. They are wrong. When women
are five times more likely to be mur-
dered if there is a gun present in the
household, it is clear that gun violence
is a women’s issue.
We have made important progress,
but we can’t let up, not when a woman
is murdered by a male intimate partner
with a gun every 16 hours.
This bill tells survivors: You are not
alone. You will always have a place to
go. You will always have people on
your side.
Most importantly, it will save lives.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support it.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from New
Mexico (Mr. LUJÁN), the assistant
Democratic leader.
Mr. LUJÁN. Mr. Chair, I want to
share a story of one of my constitu-
ents, Rayen. Her story is hard to hear,
but we cannot tune it out.
When Rayen first reached out for
protection, her partner, Daniel, had
struck her with a wrench, raped her,
and strangled her to the point of un-
consciousness. But Tribal police had
little jurisdiction over Daniel, who is
not Native American. They were forced
to turn the case over to Federal pros-
ecutors.
Next, Rayen went missing. Her body
was found several weeks later, beaten
and strangled.
Rayen’s story is representative of the
violence women, especially Native
women, face every day. This violence is
an epidemic in our country. Native
women are 10 times more likely to be
murdered than any other ethnicity.
We need to act. The Violence Against
Women Act is a pillar of our Federal
response to domestic violence, sexual
assault, dating violence, and stalking.
Passage of H.R. 1585 will ensure that
every survivor of domestic violence is
given the protection they need to re-
build their lives after experiencing vio-
lence.
Mr. Chair, please join me in voting
for this legislation in memory of Rayen
and in memory of all the women who
have faced domestic violence and as-
sault.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
Maryland (Mr. BROWN).
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Chair-
man, I am a cosponsor of the Violence
Against Women Act, and I believe that
this is the most important bill that
this Congress will pass to protect thou-
sands of women against violence and
demonstrate that we value the dignity
of every human being.
I was proud to work with the com-
mittee to close three potentially fatal
loopholes that allow abusers to possess
firearms.
We closed the stalking loophole by
treating stalking similarly to other do-
mestic violence crimes. Currently, 76
percent of women who are murdered by
their partner were first stalked.
We closed the dating partner loop-
hole by expanding restrictions on dat-
ing partners convicted of domestic vio-
lence from buying a gun.
We closed the temporary restraining
order loophole by prohibiting an abuser
from getting their hands on a gun when
a court issues a temporary order, be-
cause this is when an abuser is most
likely to lash out and retaliate.
When domestic violence kills three
women a day, we have a moral respon-
sibility to act.
Mr. Chairman, we cannot let the gun
lobby scare us into putting their inter-
ests above the lives of thousands of
Americans. We must reauthorize
VAWA now with these increased pro-
tections.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
3 minutes to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. BASS), the chair of the
Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Secu-
rity Subcommittee and the sponsor of
this legislation.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Chair, I rise in sup-
port of H.R. 1585, the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2019.
This bipartisan measure was intro-
duced by myself and my colleague, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, the gentleman from
Pennsylvania. Several other Members
have supported this effort and were in-
advertently left off the sponsor list due
to a clerical error. To remedy that, I
will furnish a separate statement for
the RECORD that includes those names,
respectively.
H.R. 1585 will reauthorize the VAWA
of 1994, a landmark piece of legislation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.036 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3009
April 3, 2019
first enacted and signed into law by
President Clinton in 1994. This was a
direct response to the epidemic of vio-
lence against women that plagued our
country at that time.
While we have made significant
progress, we still have much to do.
It is estimated that more than 2 mil-
lion adults and more than 15 million
children are exposed to domestic vio-
lence annually. These alarming figures
make it imperative that we reauthorize
VAWA now.
We concluded our celebration of
Women’s History Month in March, but
our job to protect women is not com-
plete.
Movements like #MeToo across this
country demand Congress’ attention to
better deal with the gaping holes left
unfilled in current law around the
issues of domestic violence, dating vio-
lence, sexual assault, harassment, and
stalking.
The VAWA efforts will have the same
profound effect on a victim survivor
and their families no matter one’s
party affiliation. Hence, these are
human problems, period.
This is our opportunity to respond to
the basic needs of victims and sur-
vivors everywhere, absent discrimina-
tion based on their race, sex, religion,
or nationality.
That is why this law has been reau-
thorized three times since enactment,
in 2000, 2005, and 2013, with strong bi-
partisan approval and overwhelming
support from Congress, States, and
local communities.
H.R. 1585 continues that tradition,
which reflects a reasonable and com-
promised approach to reauthorize
grant programs under VAWA. For ex-
ample, this bill includes various pieces
of bipartisan legislation, Republican
amendments from our committee
markup, and Republican amendments
through the rules process.
H.R. 1585 is intended to make modi-
fications, as Congress has done in the
past to all previous reauthorizations of
VAWA.
For example, in South Los Angeles,
part of my district, the Jenesse Center
helps hundreds of people every year.
VAWA funding has supported the
growth of Jenesse’s legal department,
which provides direct legal services
that not only assist survivors in secur-
ing immediate safety, but also helps
them achieve long-term goals of sta-
bility and self-sufficiency.
VAWA funding is integral to
Jenesse’s transitional, or bridge, hous-
ing program for survivors. After over-
coming the initial crisis phase, people
need space and time to rebuild family
bonds, secure education and vocational
training, and receive the mental health
counseling needed to heal from trauma.
H.R. 1585 is inclusive, sensible, and
responsive.
The CHAIR. The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chair, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentle-
woman from California (Ms. BASS).
Ms. BASS. Mr. Chair, this bill is
about preventing and responding to do-
mestic violence, sexual assault, dating
violence, and stalking. That is why I
urge my colleagues to exert courage
and stand with victims by supporting
this bill.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
reserve the balance of my time.
b 1500
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. KILDEE).
Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Chairman, I thank
my friend for yielding.
Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of the
Violence Against Women Reauthoriza-
tion Act. This is a persistent crisis in
our country that requires Congress to
act.
While a lot of progress has been made
since VAWA was first passed in 1994,
too many women still face violence.
According to the National Coalition
Against Domestic Violence, one in
three women will experience some form
of physical violence in their lifetime.
Protecting women from violence has
been, and should always be, a bipar-
tisan issue. In 1994, Republicans and
Democrats came together to pass
VAWA. Since then, this act has been
reauthorized three times, including in
2013, just after I became a Member of
this body.
Because of this law, victims of do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sex-
ual assault, and stalking have been
able to access support, as well, while
offenders have been held more account-
able by our criminal justice system.
Since VAWA first passed, the rate of
intimate partner violence declined by
67 percent. This law works, and we can
strengthen it with this action.
Mr. Chairman, I am proud to be a co-
sponsor of the Grijalva amendment No.
13, which deals with some of the issues
we see in Tribal communities. This is
an important bill, and I urge all of my
colleagues to support it.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I continue to reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. SPEIER).
Ms. SPEIER. Mr. Chairman, I thank
the chairman of the Judiciary Com-
mittee for yielding.
Mr. Chairman, today, I stand here in
proud support of the bipartisan Vio-
lence Against Women Reauthorization
Act of 2019, which includes my bill, the
Closing the Law Enforcement Consent
Loophole Act.
I introduced this bill when I read a
shocking article last year about a teen-
ager in New York who was raped by
two police officers while in their cus-
tody in the back of an unmarked police
vehicle. When she reported the rape, a
loophole in New York State law al-
lowed the officers to claim she con-
sented to having sex with them, despite
the fact that she was handcuffed and
under their control.
I was appalled to learn about this and
was concerned that that was a legiti-
mate defense, at that time, in New
York, and it remains an acceptable de-
fense in 30 other States and for Federal
law enforcement officers.
My bill has now been included in
VAWA and will no longer allow for
Federal law enforcement officers to use
that consent defense as well.
There are also financial incentives
for the 30 States that need to close
their loopholes by providing additional
VAWA grant funds to States that pass
similar legislation.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to protect the safety of our women.
Closing this loophole puts us one step
closer to achieving that safety.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I continue to reserve the balance
of my time
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Mrs. LAWRENCE), a co-chair
of the Bipartisan Women’s Caucus.
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Chairman,
today, I rise in support of H.R. 1585, the
Violence Against Women Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2019.
I would like to first thank Represent-
ative KAREN BASS, the sponsor of this
legislation, for her support of this
issue.
As important as the successes of this
bill have been, they are at times insuf-
ficient. Every day, an average of three
women are killed by a current or
former intimate partner. Every year,
7.9 million women are victims of stalk-
ing, rape, or physical violence by an in-
timate partner.
The bill before us today provides im-
portant updates to the Violence
Against Women Act that improves
services for victims of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault,
and stalking.
Mr. Chairman, as co-chair of the Bi-
partisan Women’s Caucus and as co-
chair of the Democratic Women’s Cau-
cus, I strongly urge my colleagues, on
both sides of the aisle, to support this
passage of legislation.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I continue to reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
2 minutes to the distinguished gentle-
woman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chairman, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. COLLINS and I have been working
on any number of issues dealing with
criminal justice reform, and certainly
we have spent the last couple of years
on the Judiciary Committee. He may
not recall, but working with our chair-
man in the last session of Congress,
who acknowledged that the Judiciary
Committee had many opportunities to
work together—and I totally agree—
one of those issues was, of course, the
Violence Against Women Act. We en-
gaged with the staff quite extensively
because we wanted this to be a bipar-
tisan bill.
So, for a 3-year period, we engaged, I
engaged, many women of this Congress
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.037 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3010 April 3, 2019
engaged, and we think we have come
up with a product that recognizes that,
as we speak here today, there are
women who are dying from domestic
violence. As we stand here today, law
enforcement will tell you that the
most difficult, or one of the most dif-
ficult, calls they have to make is a do-
mestic violence call.
Maybe it is like my constituent,
Candice, whose bill I introduced, who
was laying in the bed with a little baby
and her other children were moving
around the house, and a significant
other—a husband, a boyfriend—took
his gun and killed Candice while that
baby was lying next to her. The little
children had to hear that, and they
were scurrying. They had to run to an-
other house to try to get help for
mommy.
You see, ladies and gentlemen, this is
not about a score of the National Rifle
Association, because this is not a gun
bill, this is a lifesaving bill. This is a
bill that a Republican from Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. FITZPATRICK, put a health
provision in, he expanded the Public
Health Service Act.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. CARSON of In-
diana). The time of the gentlewoman
has expired.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
an additional 1 minute to the gentle-
woman from Texas.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. His bill will
allow more services to come for those
children and those survivors of domes-
tic violence, it will expand the capac-
ity of early childhood programs to ad-
dress domestic violence, dating vio-
lence, sexual assault, and stalking. It
will put in $291 million, so that date
rape kits, DNA kits, will not be back-
logged, so that law enforcement will
have resources, and so that prosecutors
will have resources.
Candice cannot be brought back. And
we introduced that bill at a time when
no one wanted to see anything having
to do with protecting us from guns.
Now we have a statement that respects
Candice’s life by indicating that if you
have been convicted, you need not have
a gun around your family, it should be
in a lockbox.
What more can we do to be fair and
balanced and draw bipartisan support,
even to the extent of joining with my
friend from Texas to have a bill amend-
ment that deals with female genital
mutilation.
We have worked hard. This bill de-
serves 100 percent support of this Con-
gress, because while we talk lives are
being lost.
Mr. Chairman, I ask my friends to
support the legislation that we are de-
bating, H.R. 1585.
Mr. Chair, I rise in support of the Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2019.
The Violence Against Women Act (‘‘VAWA’’)
is landmark legislation which—through policy
reforms, interstate cooperation and grant allo-
cation—has been pivotal in providing a na-
tional response to protecting half of the popu-
lation.
Equally important, it has ushered in a seis-
mic transformation on how society perceives
violence against women.
The law has enhanced and improved the
lives of girls and women, boys and men.
There are many similarities between the
year that VAWA initially passed in 1994, and
the moment in which we all find ourselves
today.
When it was first passed, the country was
experiencing reverberations to yet another po-
larizing battle to fill a seat on the Supreme
Court.
Then the courageous victim sharing her
truth was Anita Hill.
Today, as VAWA is yet again scheduled to
expire, the country is assessing the ripples
created by the #MeToo movement.
But despite the passage of over a quarter-
century since its first enactment, the malignant
treatment received by a courageous person
willing to share her story unfortunately en-
dures.
The need to create a safe space for victims
of violence, especially women, supported with
substantial resources to address this scourge
has taken on a new urgency in this era of the
#MeToo movement.
When discussing VAWA, we cannot forget
the victims of domestic violence like Brittany
Smith, who was 23 years old and was gunned
down last year in Houston, by her boyfriend
and San Diego-based Marine; nor can we for-
get Charlene Caldwell, a mother and grand-
mother beaten to death last year by a baseball
bat at the hands of her boyfriend in Houston.
Domestic violence was alleged in both of
these horrific events.
Unfortunately, there are too many stories
like Charlene’s or Brittany’s.
The stories of these two women remind us
of the urgency to protect survivors NOW, be-
fore it is too late, because many of these
deaths are preventable.
Despite the experiences of #MeToo sur-
vivors or victims like Ms. Smith or Ms.
Caldwell, all is not for naught.
Since VAWA’s codification in 1994, more
victims report episodes of domestic violence to
the police and the rate of non-fatal intimate
partner violence against women has de-
creased by almost two-thirds.
VAWA has also led to a significant increase
in the reporting of sexual assault.
For example, the percentage of victims of
rape and sexual assault who report the as-
sault to the police increased from 28.8 percent
in 1993—the year prior to VAWA’s initial pas-
sage—to 50 percent in 2010.
In the first 15 years of VAWA’s validity,
rates of serious intimate partner violence de-
clined by 72 percent for women and 64 per-
cent for men.
Research suggests that referring a victim to
a domestic violence or sexual assault advo-
cate has been linked to an increased willing-
ness to file a police report—survivors with an
advocate filed a report with law enforcement
59 percent of the time, versus 41 percent for
individuals not referred to a victim advocate.
This progress cannot be allowed to stop.
Congress must continue sending the clear
message that violence against women is un-
acceptable.
Prior to VAWA, law enforcement lacked the
resources and tools to respond effectively to
domestic violence and sexual assault.
Each reauthorization of VAWA has im-
proved protections for women and men, while
helping to change the culture and reduce the
tolerance for these crimes.
The Violence Against Women Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2019 improves current law in sev-
eral important respects, and takes a holistic
approach to the goal of eliminating the harm
faced by victims of violence, and making vital
services accessible to victims of this scourge.
For example, this iteration of VAWA con-
tains guidance on the use of grants to activate
judicial and law enforcement tools to develop
and enforce firearm surrender policies; ex-
pands permissible use of grant funding for
programs focused on increasing survivor/law
enforcement/community safety; and provides
legal assistance for dependent children in ap-
propriate circumstances.
It also updates programs designed to re-
duce dating violence, help children exposed to
violence and engage men in preventing vio-
lence against women.
Additionally, the bill improves services for
victims of domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, and stalking.
It provides policies, protection, and justice
for young victims of violence, including extend-
ing the Rape Prevention and Education grant
program, addressing bullying of young people,
improving grants focused on prevention edu-
cation for students, and expanding relevant
training for school-based and campus health
centers; and reauthorizes and updates pro-
grams designed to reduce dating violence,
help children exposed to violence, and engage
men in preventing violence.
This bill also recognizes the cascading ills
associated with identifying, eliminating, and
preventing the reemergence of domestic vio-
lence.
This bill expands grants under the Public
Health Service Act to support implementation
of training programs to improve the capacity of
early childhood programs to address domestic
violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
stalking among the families they serve; pre-
serves and expands housing protections for
survivors; provides economic security assist-
ance for survivors, by reauthorizing the Na-
tional Resource Center on Workplace Re-
sponses; protects employees from being fired
because they are survivors of sexual assault
or domestic violence; and protects survivors’
eligibility to receive Unemployment Insurance.
Recognizing that many women are victim-
ized at the hands of intimate partners, this
iteration of VAWA helps prevent ‘‘intimate
partner’’ homicides, by including provisions ex-
panding firearms laws to prohibit persons con-
victed of dating violence from possessing fire-
arms, prohibiting persons convicted of mis-
demeanor stalking from possessing firearms,
and prohibiting individuals subject to ex parte
protective orders from possessing firearms.
Accordingly, the bill helps protect Native
American women, by including provisions to
improve the response to missing and mur-
dered Native American women, improving trib-
al access to federal crime information data-
bases, and reaffirming tribal criminal jurisdic-
tion over non-Indian perpetrators of domestic
violence, sexual assault, dating violence, stalk-
ing, and trafficking for all federally recognized
Indian tribes and Alaskan Natives.
Additionally, this bill protects the Office on
Violence Against Women in the Department of
Justice from being de-emphasized, merged, or
consolidated into any other DOJ office.
VAWA is central to our nation’s effort to
fight the epidemic of domestic, sexual, and
dating violence and stalking.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.039 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3011
April 3, 2019
This work did not happen on its own.
It was the product of a collaborative effort of
stakeholders, including victim advocates.
It was the product of those willing to share
their stories of the abuse suffered at the
hands of those who were entrusted to love,
but instead harmed.
The courage, strength, and resilience dis-
played by survivors has reminded all that we
must continue to foster an environment for vic-
tims of violence to come forward and expose
episodes of violence against women.
This bill represents the good that can come
when courageous people with a story to tell
come forward with the belief that through their
pain, the lives of others can be helped.
Having listened to concerned stakeholders
from all pockets of the country, we have put
pen to paper and produced a bill that is en-
dorsed by the bipartisan National Task Force
to End Sexual and Domestic Violence (NTF),
which is a national collaboration comprising a
large and diverse group of 35 national, tribal,
state, territorial, and local organizations, advo-
cates, and individuals that focus on the devel-
opment, passage and implementation of effec-
tive public policy to address domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
stalking.
Indeed, there is no reason our work on this
cannot be bipartisan, as has been the custom
of prior Congresses in authorizing this critical
piece of legislation.
The love for a spouse, the comfort of a
mother and the best wishes for a sister know
no political allegiance.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I continue to reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. HOYER), the distinguished
majority leader.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Chairman, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Chairman, I want to thank all of
those who have been involved in get-
ting this to the floor. This bill is a
critically important bill and, unfortu-
nately, its authorization expired last
year. It is timely that we bring it to
the floor. I am hopeful that it passes.
Mr. Chairman, I was proud to be a co-
sponsor of the original Violence
Against Women Act in 1994. It passed
on a bipartisan vote in the House. It
was reauthorized in 2000 with a vote—
and everybody ought to note this—that
passed 371–1. And in 2005, it was reau-
thorized and passed 415–4 and signed, of
course, by President Bush.
Democrats fought hard to expand the
law’s protections to immigrant women,
Native Americans, and LGBT people,
and we did so in 2013 with bipartisan
support once more. We want to protect
all of our women, whatever their par-
ticular difference.
I was disappointed that the law’s au-
thorization expired at the end of fiscal
year 2018. It is critical that we enact a
long-term reauthorization of the law
without further delay in order to pro-
vide that certainty that another short-
term extension cannot.
This legislation was introduced by
Representative KAREN BASS. It is a 5-
year reauthorization. The gentle-
woman from Texas, who just spoke,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, did a lot of work on
this bill in the Judiciary Committee as
well. I thank her for her leadership in
this effort.
Her bill—and I speak of Congress-
woman BASS—would improve on cur-
rent law by expanding existing grants
that make communities safer and pro-
tect vulnerable populations, including
Native American women.
Why wouldn’t we do that? I can’t
think of a reason.
It would also improve economic as-
sistance and security for survivors
struggling with unemployment or fi-
nancial hardship due to an abusive re-
lationship to which they had been ex-
posed.
It would also ensure that the Depart-
ment of Justice’s Office on Violence
Against Women remains open and is
not merged into another office or de-
emphasized.
And, very importantly, the bill closes
loopholes in gun laws to help prevent
intimate partner homicides, an all too
frequent happening.
According to the National Coalition
Against Domestic Violence, on aver-
age, nearly 20 people every minute are
physically abused by an intimate part-
ner in the United States. That is a
tragedy and a crisis.
One in four women experience severe
intimate partner physical violence.
And one in seven have been stalked by
an intimate partner to the point at
which she felt very fearful or believed
that she, or someone close to her,
would be harmed or killed.
The presence of a gun in a domestic
violence situation increases the risk of
homicide by 500 percent. That is why
we aim to close gun loopholes by ex-
panding the definition of intimate
partners to include dating or former
dating partners.
It is also why this bill has language
preventing anybody convicted of a mis-
demeanor crime of stalking from ob-
taining a gun.
I am deeply disappointed that some
Republican Members of this House are
using the NRA as cover to vote against
this reauthorization which has been
overwhelmingly, in a bipartisan fash-
ion, reauthorized over and over again.
These are commonsense protections
that prevent domestic abusers from ob-
taining the guns that have, sadly, been
used so frequently to harm or kill their
partners.
Mr Chairman, I urge every Member
to vote for this reauthorization. Let’s
make this renewal of the Violence
Against Women Act as strongly bipar-
tisan as the House’s support for the law
used to be. Let’s send a resounding
message that the House stands with
the victims and survivors and law en-
forcement and will do its job to help
them and to prevent domestic violence
and abuse, which have no place in our
society, but are, tragically, too often,
perpetrated in our country.
Mr. Chairman, let’s make it safer for
women, for families, and for the chil-
dren they care for. Let’s pass this bill.
Let’s reauthorize the Violence Against
Women Act.
b 1515
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I have no other speakers, and I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Chairman, really, in closing, I
would just reiterate the points that I
have made.
We are looking forward to a bipar-
tisan, bicameral bill that we do believe
will come back eventually. The Senate
has said this.
There are many things, and I think
the distinguished majority leader made
it very clear. I think it was interesting
that he said, why did this become a bill
that was not—it should be as bipar-
tisan as it should be. I think it is be-
cause of stuff that we did not talk
about that had been added into this,
which makes it much larger than what
the bill actually should be about, and
focused on those areas.
We can disagree about a lot of things,
but I think, in this one, all of us want
to make sure that the Violence Against
Women Act is reauthorized in a way
that does promote the very ideals of
the original law, and we would con-
tinue to do that.
We look forward to a day in which
this body can debate that bill. At this
time, we cannot, because this bill does
not feel like many of our Members may
vote for it. They may vote against. But
I think, at the end of the day, there
will be a better product coming. I am
looking forward to that.
I appreciate the hard work by both
sides, but I do believe there is a better
outcome and alternative, a bipartisan,
bicameral bill in the future.
Mr. Chair, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on this
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chairman, every
year approximately 7.9 million women
are victims of rape, physical violence,
or stalking by an intimate partner. An
average of three women are killed
every day by a current or former inti-
mate partner.
These grim statistics underscore the
crucial need for us to act without delay
to reauthorize VAWA and to enhance
and expand the act so that it is even
more effective than it has proven to be
in the past.
The Violence Against Women Reau-
thorization Act of 2019 is comprehen-
sive and inclusive legislation that I
hope will earn bipartisan support in
the long tradition of this important
law. Therefore, I urge my colleagues to
join with me in voting for this critical
legislation today.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Chair, a number of my
colleagues who requested to be added
as a cosponsor to H.R. 1585, the ‘‘Vio-
lence Against Women Reauthorization
Act of 2019’’ were not listed as cospon-
sors due to a clerical error.
I wish to thank all my colleagues for
their enduring support of VAWA. The
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.020 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3012 April 3, 2019
reauthorization of VAWA is vital for
domestic violence survivors. VAWA is
a landmark piece of legislation first
enacted in 1994 and signed into law by
President Bill Clinton as part of the
Violent Crime Control and Law En-
forcement Act of 1994.
This legislation was enacted in re-
sponse to the prevalence of domestic
and sexual violence, and the significant
impact of such violence on the lives of
women. It is estimated that more than
two million adults and more than 15
million children are exposed to domes-
tic violence annually. VAWA provides
essential resources to those who need
it most, which is why this piece of leg-
islation is so essential.
For the record, the following Mem-
bers have expressed their support for
H.R. 1585, the Violence Against Women
Reauthorization Act of 2019’’ and would
have been added as a cosponsor to H.R.
1585 but for a clerical error.
COLIN ALLRED
AMI BERA
SANFORD D. BISHOP, Jr.
G.K. BUTTERFIELD
ANDRÉ CARSON
MATT CARTWRIGHT
JOAQUIN CASTRO
EMANUEL CLEAVER
GERALD CONNOLLY
JIM COSTA
TJ COX
CHARLIE CRIST
SHARICE DAVIDS
DANNY K. DAVIS
ROSA DELAURO
MARK DESAULNIER
THEODORE E. DEUTCH
MICHAEL F. DOYLE
ELIOT ENGEL
DWIGHT EVANS
ABBY FINKENAUER
JIMMY GOMEZ
ALCEE L. HASTINGS
JAHANA HAYES
KENDRA S. HORN
HAKEEM JEFFRIES
HENRY C. ‘‘HANK’’ JOHNSON, Jr.
MARCY KAPTUR
DANIEL T. KILDEE
JOHN LARSON
AL LAWSON
BARBARA LEE
MIKE LEVIN
JOHN LEWIS
TED LIEU
NITA M. LOWEY
BEN RAY LUJÁN
ELAINE G. LURIA
TOM MALINOWSKI
STEPHANIE N. MURPHY
RICHARD E. NEAL
JOE NEGUSE
MICHAEL SAN NICOLAS
DONALD NORCROSs
BILL PASCRELL, Jr.
ED PERLMUTTER
SCOTT PETERS
DEAN PHILLIPS
MARK POCAN
DAVID E. PRICE
HARLEY ROUDA
RAUL RUIZ
BOBBY RUSH
MARY GAY SCANLON
ROBERT C. ‘‘BOBBY’’ SCOTT
BRAD SHERMAN
MIKIE SHERRILL
DARREN SOTO
ABIGAIL DAVIS SPANBERGER
MARK TAKANO
BENNIE G. THOMPSON
RASHIDA TLAIB
NORMA J. TORRES
XOCHITL TORRES SMALL
MARC A. VEASEY
The Acting CHAIR. All time for gen-
eral debate has expired.
In lieu of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by
the Committee on the Judiciary, print-
ed in the bill, it shall be considered as
an original bill for the purpose of
amendment under the 5-minute rule an
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–9 modified by the
amendment printed in part A of House
Report 116–32. That amendment in the
nature of a substitute shall be consid-
ered as read.
The text of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute is as follows:
H.R. 1585
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Violence Against Women Reauthorization
Act of 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Universal definitions and grant condi-
tions.
Sec. 3. Reporting on female genital mutilation,
female genital cutting, or female
circumcision.
TITLE I—ENHANCING LEGAL TOOLS TO
COMBAT DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING
VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND
STALKING
Sec. 101. Stop grants.
Sec. 102. Grants to improve the criminal justice
response.
Sec. 103. Legal assistance for victims.
Sec. 104. Grants to support families in the jus-
tice system.
Sec. 105. Outreach and services to underserved
populations grants.
Sec. 106. Criminal provisions.
Sec. 107. Rape survivor child custody.
TITLE II—IMPROVING SERVICES FOR
VICTIMS
Sec. 201. Sexual assault services program.
Sec. 202. Rural domestic violence, dating vio-
lence, sexual assault, stalking,
and child abuse enforcement as-
sistance program.
Sec. 203. Training and services to end violence
against people with disabilities.
Sec. 204. Training and services to end abuse in
later life.
TITLE III—SERVICES, PROTECTION, AND
JUSTICE FOR YOUNG VICTIMS
Sec. 301. Rape prevention and education grant.
Sec. 302. Creating hope through outreach, op-
tions, services, and education
(CHOOSE) for children and
youth.
Sec. 303. Grants to combat violent crimes on
campuses.
Sec. 304. Combat online predators.
TITLE IV—VIOLENCE REDUCTION
PRACTICES
Sec. 401. Study conducted by the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.
Sec. 402. Saving Money and Reducing Trage-
dies (SMART) through Prevention
grants.
TITLE V—STRENGTHENING THE
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS RESPONSE
Sec. 501. Grants to strengthen the healthcare
systems response to domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual as-
sault, and stalking.
TITLE VI—SAFE HOMES FOR VICTIMS
Sec. 601. Housing protections for victims of do-
mestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, and stalking.
Sec. 602. Ensuring compliance and implementa-
tion; prohibiting retaliation
against victims.
Sec. 603. Protecting the right to report crime
from one’s home.
Sec. 604. Transitional housing assistance grants
for victims of domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, or
stalking.
Sec. 605. Addressing the housing needs of vic-
tims of domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, and
stalking.
Sec. 606. United States Housing Act of 1937
amendments.
TITLE VII—ECONOMIC SECURITY FOR
VICTIMS
Sec. 701. Findings.
Sec. 702. National Resource Center on work-
place responses to assist victims of
domestic and sexual violence.
Sec. 703. Entitlement to unemployment com-
pensation for victims of sexual
and other harassment and sur-
vivors of domestic violence, sexual
assault, or stalking.
Sec. 704. Study and reports on barriers to sur-
vivors’ economic security access.
Sec. 705. GAO Study.
Sec. 706. Education and information programs
for survivors.
Sec. 707. Severability.
TITLE VIII—HOMICIDE REDUCTION
INITIATIVES
Sec. 801. Prohibiting persons convicted of mis-
demeanor crimes against dating
partners and persons subject to
protection orders.
Sec. 802. Prohibiting stalkers and individuals
subject to court order from pos-
sessing a firearm.
TITLE IX—SAFETY FOR INDIAN WOMEN
Sec. 901. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 902. Authorizing funding for the tribal ac-
cess program.
Sec. 903. Tribal jurisdiction over crimes of do-
mestic violence, dating violence,
obstruction of justice, sexual vio-
lence, sex trafficking, stalking,
and assault of a law enforcement
officer or corrections officer.
Sec. 904. Annual reporting requirements.
TITLE X—OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST
WOMEN
Sec. 1001. Establishment of Office on Violence
Against Women.
TITLE XI—IMPROVING CONDITIONS FOR
WOMEN IN FEDERAL CUSTODY
Sec. 1101. Improving the treatment of primary
caretaker parents and other indi-
viduals in federal prisons.
Sec. 1102. Public health and safety of women.
TITLE XII—LAW ENFORCEMENT TOOLS TO
ENHANCE PUBLIC SAFETY
Sec. 1201. Notification to law enforcement agen-
cies of prohibited purchase or at-
tempted purchase of a firearm.
Sec. 1202. Reporting of background check deni-
als to state, local, and tribal au-
thorities.
Sec. 1203. Special assistant U.S. attorneys and
cross-deputized attorneys.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6343 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.024 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3013
April 3, 2019
TITLE XIII—CLOSING THE LAW
ENFORCEMENT CONSENT LOOPHOLE
Sec. 1301. Short title.
Sec. 1302. Prohibition on engaging in sexual
acts while acting under color of
law.
Sec. 1303. Incentives for States.
Sec. 1304. Reports to Congress.
Sec. 1305. Definition.
TITLE XIV—OTHER MATTERS
Sec. 1401. National stalker and domestic vio-
lence reduction.
Sec. 1402. Federal victim assistants reauthoriza-
tion.
Sec. 1403. Child abuse training programs for ju-
dicial personnel and practitioners
reauthorization.
Sec. 1404. Sex offender management.
Sec. 1405. Court-appointed special advocate
program.
Sec. 1406. Rape kit backlog.
Sec. 1407. Sexual assault forensic exam program
grants.
SEC. 2. UNIVERSAL DEFINITIONS AND GRANT
CONDITIONS.
Section 40002 of the Violence Against Women
Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12291) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘In this title’’ and inserting
‘‘In this title, including for the purpose of
grants authorized under this Act’’;
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (34) through
(45) as paragraphs (42) through (53);
(C) by inserting after paragraph (33) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(39) INTERNET ENABLED DEVICE.—The term
‘internet enabled device’ means devices that
have a connection the Internet, send and receive
information and data, and maybe accessed via
mobile device technology, video technology, or
computer technology, away from the location
where the device is installed, and may include
home automation systems, door locks, and ther-
mostats.
‘‘(40) TECHNOLOGICAL ABUSE.—The term ‘tech-
nological abuse’ means behavior intended to
harm, threaten, intimidate, control, stalk, har-
ass, impersonate, or monitor, except as other-
wise permitted by law, another person, that oc-
curs using the Internet, internet enabled de-
vices, social networking sites, computers, mobile
devices, cellular telephones, apps, location
tracking devices, instant messages, text mes-
sages, or other forms of technology. Techno-
logical abuse may include—
‘‘(A) unwanted, repeated telephone calls, text
messages, instant messages, or social media
posts;
‘‘(B) non-consensual accessing e-mail ac-
counts, texts or instant messaging accounts, so-
cial networking accounts, or cellular telephone
logs;
‘‘(C) controlling or restricting a person’s abil-
ity to access technology with the intent to iso-
late them from support and social connection;
‘‘(D) using tracking devices or location track-
ing software for the purpose of monitoring or
stalking another person’s location;
‘‘(E) impersonating a person (including
through the use of spoofing technology in photo
or video or the creation of accounts under a
false name) with the intent to deceive or cause
harm; or
‘‘(F) sharing or urging or compelling the shar-
ing of another person’s private information,
photographs, or videos without their consent.
‘‘(41) FEMALE GENITAL MUTILATION.—The
terms ‘female genital mutilation’, ‘female genital
cutting’, ‘FGM/C’, or ‘female circumcision’ mean
the intentional removal or infibulation (or both)
of either the whole or part of the external fe-
male genitalia for non-medical reasons. External
female genitalia includes the pubis, labia
minora, labia majora, clitoris, and urethral and
vaginal openings.’’;
(D) in paragraph (19)(B), by striking ‘‘and
probation’’ and inserting ‘‘probation, and
vacatur or expungement’’;
(E) by redesignating paragraphs (13) through
(33) as paragraphs (18) through (38);
(F) by striking paragraphs (11) and (12) and
inserting the following:
‘‘(13) DIGITAL SERVICES.—The term ‘digital
services’ means services, resources, information,
support or referrals provided through electronic
communications platforms and media, whether
via mobile device technology, video technology,
or computer technology, including utilizing the
internet, as well as any other emerging commu-
nications technologies that are appropriate for
the purposes of providing services, resources, in-
formation, support, or referrals for the benefit of
victims of domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, or stalking.
‘‘(14) ECONOMIC ABUSE.—The term ‘economic
abuse’, in the context of domestic violence, dat-
ing violence, and abuse in later life, means be-
havior that is coercive, deceptive, or unreason-
ably controls or restrains a person’s ability to
acquire, use, or maintain economic resources to
which they are entitled, including using coer-
cion, fraud, or manipulation to—
‘‘(A) restrict a person’s access to money, as-
sets, credit, or financial information;
‘‘(B) unfairly use a person’s personal eco-
nomic resources, including money, assets, and
credit, for one’s own advantage; or
‘‘(C) exert undue influence over a person’s fi-
nancial and economic behavior or decisions, in-
cluding forcing default on joint or other finan-
cial obligations, exploiting powers of attorney,
guardianship, or conservatorship, or failing or
neglecting to act in the best interests of a person
to whom one has a fiduciary duty.
‘‘(15) ELDER ABUSE.—The term ‘elder abuse’
has the meaning given that term in section 2 of
the Elder Abuse Prevention and Prosecution
Act. The terms ‘abuse,’ ‘elder,’ and ‘exploi-
tation’ have the meanings given those terms in
section 2011 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
1397j).
‘‘(16) FORCED MARRIAGE.—The term ‘forced
marriage’ means a marriage to which one or
both parties do not or cannot consent, and in
which one or more elements of force, fraud, or
coercion is present. Forced marriage can be both
a cause and a consequence of domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault or stalking.
‘‘(17) HOMELESS.—The term ‘homeless’ has the
meaning given such term in section 41403(6).’’;
(G) by redesignating paragraphs (9) and (10)
as paragraphs (11) and (12), respectively;
(H) by amending paragraph (8) to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(10) DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.—The term ‘domes-
tic violence’ means a pattern of behavior involv-
ing the use or attempted use of physical, sexual,
verbal, emotional, economic, or technological
abuse or any other coercive behavior committed,
enabled, or solicited to gain or maintain power
and control over a victim, by a person who—
‘‘(A) is a current or former spouse or dating
partner of the victim, or other person similarly
situated to a spouse of the victim under the fam-
ily or domestic violence laws of the jurisdiction;
‘‘(B) is cohabitating with or has cohabitated
with the victim as a spouse or dating partner, or
other person similarly situated to a spouse of
the victim under the family or domestic violence
laws of the jurisdiction;
‘‘(C) shares a child in common with the vic-
tim;
‘‘(D) is an adult family member of, or paid or
nonpaid caregiver for, a victim aged 50 or older
or an adult victim with disabilities; or
‘‘(E) commits acts against a youth or adult
victim who is protected from those acts under
the family or domestic violence laws of the juris-
diction.’’.
(I) by redesignating paragraphs (6) and (7) as
paragraphs (8) and (9), respectively;
(J) by amending paragraph (5) to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(7) COURT-BASED AND COURT-RELATED PER-
SONNEL.—The terms ‘court-based personnel’ and
‘court-related personnel’ mean persons working
in the court, whether paid or volunteer, includ-
ing—
‘‘(A) clerks, special masters, domestic relations
officers, administrators, mediators, custody
evaluators, guardians ad litem, lawyers, nego-
tiators, probation, parole, interpreters, victim
assistants, victim advocates, and judicial, ad-
ministrative, or any other professionals or per-
sonnel similarly involved in the legal process;
‘‘(B) court security personnel;
‘‘(C) personnel working in related, supple-
mentary offices or programs (such as child sup-
port enforcement); and
‘‘(D) any other court-based or community-
based personnel having responsibilities or au-
thority to address domestic violence, dating vio-
lence, sexual assault, or stalking in the court
system.’’.
(K) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through
(4) as paragraphs (4) through (6) respectively;
(L) by inserting after paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) ALTERNATIVE JUSTICE RESPONSE.—The
term ‘alternative justice response’ means a proc-
ess, whether court-ordered or community-based,
that—
‘‘(A) involves, on a voluntary basis, and to
the extent possible, those who have committed a
specific offense and those who have been
harmed as a result of the offense;
‘‘(B) has the goal of collectively seeking ac-
countability from the accused, and developing a
process whereby the accused will take responsi-
bility for his or her actions, and a plan for pro-
viding relief to those harmed, through allocu-
tion, restitution, community service, or other
processes upon which the victim, the accused,
the community, and the court (if court-ordered)
can agree;
‘‘(C) is conducted in a framework that pro-
tects victim safety and supports victim auton-
omy; and
‘‘(D) provides that information disclosed dur-
ing such process may not be used for any other
law enforcement purpose, including impeach-
ment or prosecution, without the express permis-
sion of all participants.’’.
(M) by redesignating paragraph (1) as para-
graph (2); and
(N) by inserting before paragraph (2) (as re-
designated in subparagraph (M) of this para-
graph) the following:
‘‘(1) ABUSE IN LATER LIFE.—The term ‘abuse
in later life’ means neglect, abandonment, do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
or stalking of an adult over the age of 50 by any
person, or economic abuse of that adult by a
person in an ongoing, relationship of trust with
the victim. Self-neglect is not included in this
definition.’’; and
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (2)—
(i) by redesignating subparagraphs (F) and
(G) as subparagraphs (H) and (I);
(ii) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the
following:
‘‘(G) DEATH OF THE PARTY WHOSE PRIVACY
HAD BEEN PROTECTED.—In the event of the
death of any victim whose confidentiality and
privacy is required to be protected under this
subsection, such requirement shall continue to
apply, and the right to authorize release of any
confidential or protected information be vested
in the next of kin, except that consent for re-
lease of the deceased victim’s information may
not be given by a person who had perpetrated
abuse against the deceased victim.’’;
(iii) by redesignating subparagraphs (D)
through (E) as subparagraphs (E) through (F);
and
(iv) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the
following:
‘‘(D) USE OF TECHNOLOGY.—Grantees and sub-
grantees may use telephone, internet, and other
technologies to protect the privacy, location and
help-seeking activities of victims using services.
Such technologies may include—
‘‘(i) software, apps or hardware that block
caller ID or conceal IP addresses, including in-
stances in which victims use digital services; or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.001 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3014 April 3, 2019
‘‘(ii) technologies or protocols that inhibit or
prevent a perpetrator’s attempts to use tech-
nology or social media to threaten, harass or
harm the victim, the victim’s family, friends,
neighbors or co-workers, or the program pro-
viding services to them.’’;
(B) in paragraph (3), by inserting after ‘‘de-
signed to reduce or eliminate domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking’’
the following: ‘‘provided that the confidentiality
and privacy requirements of this title are main-
tained, and that personally identifying informa-
tion about adult, youth, and child victims of do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault
and stalking is not requested or included in any
such collaboration or information-sharing’’;
(C) in paragraph (6), by adding at the end the
following: ‘‘However, such disbursing agencies
must ensure that the confidentiality and pri-
vacy requirements of this title are maintained in
making such reports, and that personally identi-
fying information about adult, youth and child
victims of domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault and stalking is not requested or
included in any such reports.’’;
(D) in paragraph (11), by adding at the end
the following: ‘‘The Office on Violence Against
Women shall make all technical assistance
available as broadly as possible to any appro-
priate grantees, subgrantees, potential grantees,
or other entities without regard to whether the
entity has received funding from the Office on
Violence Against Women for a particular pro-
gram or project.’’;
(E) in paragraph (13)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting after
‘‘the Violence Against Women Reauthorization
Act of 2013’’ the following: ‘‘(Public Law 113–4;
127 Stat. 54)’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘section
3789d of title 42, United States Code’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘section 809 of title I of the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C.
10228)’’;
(F) in paragraph (14), by inserting after ‘‘are
also victims of’’ the following: ‘‘forced marriage,
or’’; and
(G) in paragraph (16)(C)(i), by striking
‘‘$20,000 in Department funds, unless the Dep-
uty Attorney General’’ and inserting ‘‘$100,000
in Department funds, unless the Director or
Principal Deputy Director of the Office on Vio-
lence Against Women, the Deputy Attorney
General,’’.
SEC. 3. REPORTING ON FEMALE GENITAL MUTI-
LATION, FEMALE GENITAL CUTTING,
OR FEMALE CIRCUMCISION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation shall, pursuant to sec-
tion 534 of title 28, United States Code, classify
the offense of female genital mutilation, female
genital cutting, or female circumcision as a part
II crime in the Uniform Crime Reports.
(b) DEFINITION.—In this section, the terms
‘‘female genital mutilation’’, ‘‘female genital
cutting’’, ‘‘FGM/C’’, or ‘‘female circumcision’’
mean the intentional removal or infibulation (or
both) of either the whole or part of the external
female genitalia for non-medical reasons. Exter-
nal female genitalia includes the pubis, labia
minora, labia majora, clitoris, and urethral and
vaginal openings.
TITLE I—ENHANCING LEGAL TOOLS TO
COMBAT DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING
VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND
STALKING
SEC. 101. STOP GRANTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Part T of title I of the Om-
nibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
(34 U.S.C. 10441 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 2001(b)—
(A) in paragraph (3), by inserting before the
semicolon at the end the following: ‘‘including
implementation of the non-discrimination re-
quirements in section 40002(b)(13) of the Vio-
lence Against Women Act of 1994’’;
(B) in paragraph (9)—
(i) by striking ‘‘older and disabled women’’
and inserting ‘‘people 50 years of age or over
and people with disabilities’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘older and disabled individ-
uals’’ and inserting ‘‘people’’;
(C) in paragraph (19), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(D) in paragraph (20), by striking the period
at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(E) by inserting after paragraph (20), the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(21) developing and implementing laws, poli-
cies, procedures, or training to ensure the lawful
recovery and storage of any dangerous weapon
by the appropriate law enforcement agency from
an adjudicated perpetrator of any offense of do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
or stalking, and the return of such weapon
when appropriate, where any Federal, State,
tribal, or local court has—
‘‘(A)(i) issued protective or other restraining
orders against such a perpetrator; or
‘‘(ii) found such a perpetrator to be guilty of
misdemeanor or felony crimes of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalk-
ing; and
‘‘(B) ordered the perpetrator to relinquish
dangerous weapons that the perpetrator pos-
sesses or has used in the commission of at least
one of the aforementioned crimes.
Policies, procedures, protocols, laws, regula-
tions, or training under this section shall in-
clude the safest means of recovery of, and best
practices for storage of, relinquished and recov-
ered dangerous weapons and their return, when
applicable, at such time as the individual is no
longer prohibited from possessing such weapons
under Federal, State, or Tribal law, or posted
local ordinances; and
‘‘(22) developing, enlarging, or strengthening
culturally specific victim services programs to
provide culturally specific victim services re-
garding, responses to, and prevention of female
genital mutilation, female genital cutting, or fe-
male circumcision.’’;
(2) in section 2007—
(A) in subsection (d)—
(i) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6) as
paragraphs (7) and (8), respectively; and
(ii) by inserting after paragraph (4) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(5) proof of compliance with the require-
ments regarding protocols to strongly discourage
compelling victim testimony, described in section
2017;
‘‘(6) proof of compliance with the require-
ments regarding civil rights under section
40002(b)(13) of the Violent Crime Control and
Law Enforcement Act of 1994;’’;
(B) in subsection (i)—
(i) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the
semicolon at the end the following: ‘‘and the re-
quirements under section 40002(b) of the Violent
Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994
(34 U.S.C. 12291(b))’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (2)(C)(iv), by inserting after
‘‘ethnicity,’’ the following: ‘‘sexual orientation,
gender identity,’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(k) REVIEWS FOR COMPLIANCE WITH NON-
DISCRIMINATION REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—If allegations of discrimina-
tion in violation of section 40002(b)(13)(A) of the
Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C.
12291(b)(13)(A)) by a potential grantee under
this part have been made to the Attorney Gen-
eral, the Attorney General shall, prior to award-
ing a grant under this part to such potential
grantee, conduct a review of the compliance of
the potential grantee with such section.
‘‘(2) ESTABLISHMENT OF RULE.—Not later than
1 year after the date of enactment of the Vio-
lence Against Women Reauthorization Act of
2019, the Attorney General shall by rule estab-
lish procedures for such a review.
‘‘(3) ANNUAL REPORT.—Beginning on the date
that is 1 year after the date of enactment of the
Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of
2019, the Attorney General shall report to the
Committees on the Judiciary of the Senate and
of the House of Representatives regarding com-
pliance with section 40002(b)(13)(A) of the Vio-
lence Against Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C.
12291(b)(13)(A)) by recipients of grants under
this part.’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 2017. GRANT ELIGIBILITY REGARDING COM-
PELLING VICTIM TESTIMONY.
‘‘In order to be eligible for a grant under this
part, a State, Indian tribal government, terri-
torial government, or unit of local government
shall certify that, not later than 3 years after
the date of enactment of this section, their laws,
policies, or practices will include a detailed pro-
tocol to discourage the use of bench warrants,
material witness warrants, perjury charges, or
other means of compelling victim-witness testi-
mony in the investigation, prosecution, trial, or
sentencing of a crime related to the domestic vi-
olence, sexual assault, dating violence or stalk-
ing of the victim.’’.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Sec-
tion 1001(a)(18) of the Omnibus Crime Control
and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C.
10261(a)(18)) is amended by striking ‘‘2014
through 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through
2024’’.
SEC. 102. GRANTS TO IMPROVE THE CRIMINAL
JUSTICE RESPONSE.
(a) HEADING.—Part U of title I of the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34
U.S.C. 10461 et seq.) is amended in the heading,
by striking ‘‘GRANTS TO ENCOURAGE ARREST
POLICIES’’ and inserting ‘‘GRANTS TO IMPROVE
THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE RESPONSE’’.
(b) GRANTS.—Section 2101 of the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34
U.S.C. 10461) is amended—
(1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the
following:
‘‘(a) GENERAL PROGRAM PURPOSE.—The pur-
pose of this part is to assist States, State and
local courts (including juvenile courts), Indian
tribal governments, tribal courts, and units of
local government to develop and strengthen ef-
fective law enforcement and prosecution strate-
gies to combat violent crimes against women,
and to develop and strengthen victim services in
cases involving violent crimes against women.’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘proarrest’’
and inserting ‘‘offender accountability and
homicide reduction’’;
(B) in paragraph (8)—
(i) by striking ‘‘older individuals (as defined
in section 102 of the Older Americans Act of 1965
(42 U.S.C. 3002))’’ and inserting ‘‘people 50 years
of age or over’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘individuals with disabilities
(as defined in section 3(2) of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102(2)))’’
and inserting ‘‘people with disabilities (as de-
fined in the Americans with Disabilities Act of
1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102))’’;
(C) in paragraph (19), by inserting before the
period at the end the following ‘‘, including vic-
tims among underserved populations (as defined
in section 40002(a)(46) of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994)’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(23) To develop and implement an alternative
justice response (as such term is defined in sec-
tion 40002(a) of the Violence Against Women Act
of 1994).
‘‘(24) To develop and implement policies, pro-
cedures, protocols, laws, regulations, or training
to ensure the lawful recovery and storage of any
dangerous weapon by the appropriate law en-
forcement agency from an adjudicated perpe-
trator of any offense of domestic violence, dat-
ing violence, sexual assault, or stalking, and the
return of such weapon when appropriate, where
any Federal, State, tribal, or local court has—
‘‘(A)(i) issued protective or other restraining
orders against such a perpetrator; or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.001 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3015
April 3, 2019
‘‘(ii) found such a perpetrator to be guilty of
misdemeanor or felony crimes of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalk-
ing; and
‘‘(B) ordered the perpetrator to relinquish
dangerous weapons that the perpetrator pos-
sesses or has used in the commission of at least
one of the aforementioned crimes.
Policies, procedures, protocols, laws, regula-
tions, or training under this section shall in-
clude the safest means of recovery of and best
practices for storage of relinquished and recov-
ered dangerous weapons and their return, when
applicable, at such time as the persons are no
longer prohibited from possessing such weapons
under Federal, State, Tribal or municipal law.’’;
and
(3) in subsection (c)(1)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘encourage or
mandate arrests of domestic violence offenders’’
and inserting ‘‘encourage arrests of offenders’’;
and
(ii) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘encourage or
mandate arrest of domestic violence offenders’’
and inserting ‘‘encourage arrest of offenders’’;
and
(B) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the
following:
‘‘(F) certify that, not later than 3 years after
the date of the enactment of this subparagraph,
their laws, policies, or practices will include a
detailed protocol to strongly discourage the use
of bench warrants, material witness warrants,
perjury charges, or other means of compelling
victim-witness testimony in the investigation,
prosecution, trial, or sentencing of a crime re-
lated to the domestic violence, sexual assault,
dating violence or stalking of the victim; and’’.
(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Sec-
tion 1001(a)(19) of the Omnibus Crime Control
and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C.
10261(a)(19)) is amended by striking ‘‘2014
through 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through
2024’’.
SEC. 103. LEGAL ASSISTANCE FOR VICTIMS.
Section 1201 of division B of the Victims of
Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000
(34 U.S.C. 20121) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by inserting after ‘‘no
cost to the victims.’’ the following: ‘‘When legal
assistance to a dependent is necessary for the
safety of a victim, such assistance may be pro-
vided.’’;
(2) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by inserting after
‘‘stalking, and sexual assault’’ the following: ‘‘,
or for dependents when necessary for the safety
of a victim’’;
(B) in paragraph (2), by inserting after
‘‘stalking, and sexual assault’’ the following: ‘‘,
or for dependents when necessary for the safety
of a victim,’’ and
(C) in paragraph (3), by inserting after ‘‘sex-
ual assault, or stalking’’ the following: ‘‘, or for
dependents when necessary for the safety of a
victim,’’; and
(3) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ‘‘2014
through 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through
2024’’.
SEC. 104. GRANTS TO SUPPORT FAMILIES IN THE
JUSTICE SYSTEM.
Section 1301 of division B of the Victims of
Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000
(34 U.S.C. 12464) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (7), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end;
(B) in paragraph (8)—
(i) by striking ‘‘to improve’’ and inserting
‘‘improve’’; and
(ii) by striking the period at the end and in-
serting ‘‘; and’’ ; and
(C) by inserting after paragraph (8) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(9) develop and implement an alternative
justice response (as such term is defined in sec-
tion 40002(a) of the Violence Against Women Act
of 1994).’’; and
(2) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘2014 through
2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through 2024’’.
SEC. 105. OUTREACH AND SERVICES TO UNDER-
SERVED POPULATIONS GRANTS.
Section 120 of the Violence Against Women
and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act
of 2005 (34 U.S.C. 20123) is amended—
(1) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (4), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the
end;
(B) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6) developing, enlarging, or strengthening
culturally specific programs and projects to pro-
vide culturally specific services regarding, re-
sponses to, and prevention of female genital mu-
tilation, female genital cutting, or female cir-
cumcision.’’; and
(2) in subsection (g), by striking ‘‘2014 through
2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through 2024’’.
SEC. 106. CRIMINAL PROVISIONS.
Section 2265 of title 18, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) in subsection (d)(3)—
(A) by striking ‘‘restraining order or injunc-
tion,’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following: ‘‘The
prohibition under this paragraph applies to all
protection orders for the protection of a person
residing within a State, territorial, or tribal ju-
risdiction, whether or not the protection order
was issued by that State, territory, or Tribe.’’;
and
(2) in subsection (e), by adding at the end the
following: ‘‘This applies to all Alaska tribes
without respect to ‘Indian country’ or the popu-
lation of the Native village associated with the
Tribe.’’.
SEC. 107. RAPE SURVIVOR CHILD CUSTODY.
Section 409 of the Justice for Victims of Traf-
ficking Act of 2015 (34 U.S.C. 21308) is amended
by striking ‘‘2015 through 2019’’ and inserting
‘‘2020 through 2024’’.
TITLE II—IMPROVING SERVICES FOR
VICTIMS
SEC. 201. SEXUAL ASSAULT SERVICES PROGRAM.
Section 41601(f)(1) of the Violent Crime Con-
trol and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C.
12511(f)(1)) is amended by striking ‘‘2014
through 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through
2024’’.
SEC. 202. RURAL DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING
VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, STALK-
ING, AND CHILD ABUSE ENFORCE-
MENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
Section 40295 of the Violent Crime Control and
Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12341) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(3), by striking ‘‘women’’
and inserting ‘‘adults, youth,’’; and
(2) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ‘‘2014
through 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through
2024’’.
SEC. 203. TRAINING AND SERVICES TO END VIO-
LENCE AGAINST PEOPLE WITH DIS-
ABILITIES.
Section 1402 of division B of the Victims of
Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000
(34 U.S.C. 20122) is amended—
(1) in the heading, by striking ‘‘WOMEN’’ and
inserting ‘‘PEOPLE’’;
(2) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘individuals’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘people’’;
(3) in subsection (b)—
(A) by striking ‘‘disabled individuals’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘people with dis-
abilities’’;
(B) in paragraph (3), by inserting after ‘‘law
enforcement’’ the following: ‘‘and other first re-
sponders’’; and
(C) in paragraph (8), by striking ‘‘providing
advocacy and intervention services within’’ and
inserting ‘‘to enhance the capacity of’’;
(4) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘disabled in-
dividuals’’ and inserting ‘‘people with disabil-
ities’’; and
(5) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘2014 through
2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through 2024’’.
SEC. 204. TRAINING AND SERVICES TO END
ABUSE IN LATER LIFE.
Section 40801 of the Violent Crime Control and
Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12421)—
(1) in the heading, by striking ‘‘ENHANCED
TRAINING’’ and inserting ‘‘TRAINING’’;
(2) by striking subsection ‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—
In this section—’’ and all that follows through
paragraph (1) of subsection (b) and inserting the
following: ‘‘The Attorney General shall make
grants to eligible entities in accordance with the
following:’’;
(3) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through
(5) of subsection (b) as paragraphs (1) through
(4);
(4) in paragraph (1) (as redesignated by para-
graph (3) of this subsection)—
(A) by striking ‘‘, including domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, exploi-
tation, and neglect’’ each place it appears;
(B) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) in clause (i), by inserting after ‘‘elder
abuse’’ the following: ‘‘and abuse in later life’’;
(ii) in clauses (ii) and (iii), by inserting after
‘‘victims of’’ the following: ‘‘elder abuse and’’;
and
(iii) in clause (iv), by striking ‘‘advocates, vic-
tim service providers, and courts to better serve
victims of abuse in later life’’ and inserting
‘‘leaders, victim advocates, victim service pro-
viders, courts, and first responders to better
serve older victims’’;
(C) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘or other commu-
nity-based organizations in recognizing and ad-
dressing instances of abuse in later life’’ and in-
serting ‘‘community-based organizations, or
other professionals who may identify or respond
to abuse in later life’’; and
(ii) in clause (ii), by inserting after ‘‘victims
of’’ the following: ‘‘elder abuse and’’; and
(D) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘sub-
paragraph (B)(ii)’’ and inserting ‘‘paragraph
(2)(B)’’;
(5) in paragraph (2) (as redesignated by para-
graph (3))—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘over 50
years of age’’ and inserting ‘‘50 years of age or
over’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘in later
life’’ and inserting ‘‘50 years of age or over’’;
and
(6) in paragraph (4) (as redesignated by para-
graph (3)), by striking ‘‘2014 through 2018’’ and
inserting ‘‘2020 through 2024’’.
TITLE III—SERVICES, PROTECTION, AND
JUSTICE FOR YOUNG VICTIMS
SEC. 301. RAPE PREVENTION AND EDUCATION
GRANT.
Section 393A of the Public Health Service Act
(42 U.S.C. 280b–1b) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (2), by inserting before the
semicolon at the end the following ‘‘or digital
services (as such term is defined in section
40002(a) of the Violence Against Women Act of
1994)’’; and
(B) in paragraph (7), by striking ‘‘sexual as-
sault’’ and inserting ‘‘sexual violence, sexual
assault, and sexual harassment’’;
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘Indian trib-
al’’ and inserting ‘‘Indian Tribal’’; and
(3) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘$50,000,000
for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018’’ and
inserting ‘‘$150,000,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3), by adding at the end the
following: ‘‘Not less than 80 percent of the total
amount made available under this subsection in
each fiscal year shall be awarded in accordance
with this paragraph.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.001 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3016 April 3, 2019
SEC. 302. CREATING HOPE THROUGH OUTREACH,
OPTIONS, SERVICES, AND EDU-
CATION (CHOOSE) FOR CHILDREN
AND YOUTH.
Section 41201 of the Violent Crime Control and
Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12451) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘stalking, or sex trafficking’’
and inserting ‘‘or stalking’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘Grants awarded under this section may be
used to address sex trafficking or bullying as
part of a comprehensive program focused pri-
marily on domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, or stalking.’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A),
by striking ‘‘target youth who are victims of do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
stalking, and sex trafficking’’ and inserting
‘‘target youth, including youth in underserved
populations who are victims of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalk-
ing’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘stalk-
ing, and sex trafficking’’ and inserting ‘‘and
stalking’’;
(iii) in subparagraph (B)—
(I) by striking ‘‘stalking, or sex trafficking’’
and inserting ‘‘or stalking’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end;
(iv) in subparagraph (C)—
(I) by striking ‘‘stalking, and sex trafficking’’
and inserting ‘‘or stalking’’; and
(II) by striking the period at the end and in-
serting a semicolon; and
(v) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the
following:
‘‘(D) clarify State or local mandatory report-
ing policies and practices regarding peer-to-peer
dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; or
‘‘(E) develop, enlarge, or strengthen culturally
specific programs and projects to provide cul-
turally specific services regarding, responses to,
and prevention of female genital mutilation, fe-
male genital cutting, or female circumcision.’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (2)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘stalking,
or sex trafficking’’ and inserting ‘‘stalking, or
female genital mutilation, female genital cut-
ting, or female circumcision’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘stalking, or sex trafficking’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘or stalk-
ing’’;
(iii) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ‘‘con-
fidential’’ before ‘‘support services’’;
(iv) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘stalk-
ing, and sex trafficking’’ and inserting ‘‘and
stalking’’; and
(v) in subparagraph (E), by inserting after
‘‘programming for youth’’ the following: ‘‘, in-
cluding youth in underserved populations,’’;
(3) in subsection (c)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘stalking, or
sex trafficking’’ and inserting ‘‘or stalking’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ‘‘para-
graph (1)’’ and inserting ‘‘subparagraph (A) or
(B) of paragraph (1)’’;
(4) in subsection (d)(3), by striking ‘‘stalking,
and sex trafficking’’ and inserting ‘‘and stalk-
ing, including training on working with youth
in underserved populations (and, where inter-
vention or programming will include a focus on
female genital mutilation, female genital cut-
ting, or female circumcision, or on sex traf-
ficking, sufficient training on those topics)’’;
and
(5) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘$15,000,000
for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018’’ and
inserting ‘‘$25,000,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024’’.
SEC. 303. GRANTS TO COMBAT VIOLENT CRIMES
ON CAMPUSES.
Section 304 of the Violence Against Women
and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act
of 2005 (34 U.S.C. 20125) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking the second
sentence;
(B) by amending paragraph (3) to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(3) To provide prevention and education pro-
gramming about domestic violence, dating vio-
lence, sexual assault, and stalking, including
technological abuse and reproductive and sex-
ual coercion, that is age-appropriate, culturally
relevant, ongoing, delivered in multiple venues
on campus, accessible, promotes respectful non-
violent behavior as a social norm, and engages
men and boys. Such programming should be de-
veloped in partnership or collaboratively with
experts in intimate partner and sexual violence
prevention and intervention.’’;
(C) in paragraph (9), by striking ‘‘and pro-
vide’’ and inserting ‘‘, provide, and dissemi-
nate’’;
(D) in paragraph (10), by inserting after ‘‘or
adapt’’ the following ‘‘and disseminate’’; and
(E) by inserting after paragraph (10) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(11) To train campus health centers on how
to recognize and respond to domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking,
including training health providers on how to
provide universal education to all members of
the campus community on the impacts of vio-
lence on health and unhealthy relationships
and how providers can support ongoing out-
reach efforts.’’;
(2) in subsection (c)(3), by striking ‘‘2014
through 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through
2024’’;
(3) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking ‘‘for all
incoming students’’ and inserting ‘‘for all stu-
dents’’; and
(B) in paragraph (4)(C), by inserting after
‘‘sex,’’ the following: ‘‘sexual orientation, gen-
der identity,’’; and
(4) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘$12,000,000
for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018’’ and
inserting ‘‘$16,000,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024’’.
SEC. 304. COMBAT ONLINE PREDATORS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 110A of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 2261A the following:
‘‘§ 2261B. Enhanced penalty for stalkers of
children
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in sub-
section (b), if the victim of an offense under sec-
tion 2261A is under the age of 18 years, the max-
imum term of imprisonment for the offense is 5
years greater than the maximum term of impris-
onment otherwise provided for that offense in
section 2261.
‘‘(b) LIMITATION.—Subsection (a) shall not
apply to a person who violates section 2261A if—
‘‘(1) the person is subject to a sentence under
section 2261(b)(5); and
‘‘(2)(A) the person is under the age of 18 at
the time the offense occurred; or
‘‘(B) the victim of the offense is not less than
15 nor more than 17 years of age and not more
than 3 years younger than the person who com-
mitted the offense at the time the offense oc-
curred.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sec-
tions at the beginning of chapter 110A of title
18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 2261A the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘2261B. Enhanced penalty for stalkers of chil-
dren.’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 2261A
of title 18, United States Code, is amended in the
matter following paragraph (2)(B), by striking
‘‘section 2261(b) of this title’’ and inserting ‘‘sec-
tion 2261(b) or section 2261B, as the case may
be’’.
(d) REPORT ON BEST PRACTICES REGARDING
ENFORCEMENT OF ANTI-STALKING LAWS.—Not
later than 1 year after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Attorney General shall submit a
report to Congress, which shall—
(1) include an evaluation of Federal, tribal,
State, and local efforts to enforce laws relating
to stalking; and
(2) identify and describe those elements of
such efforts that constitute the best practices for
the enforcement of such laws.
TITLE IV—VIOLENCE REDUCTION
PRACTICES
SEC. 401. STUDY CONDUCTED BY THE CENTERS
FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PRE-
VENTION.
Section 402 of the Violence Against Women
and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act
of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 280b–4) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘violence
against women’’ and inserting ‘‘violence against
adults, youth,’’; and
(2) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘2014 through
2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through 2024’’.
SEC. 402. SAVING MONEY AND REDUCING TRAGE-
DIES (SMART) THROUGH PREVEN-
TION GRANTS.
Section 41303 of the Violence Against Women
Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12463) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(1)—
(A) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) in subparagraph (D), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(E) strategies within each of these areas ad-
dressing the unmet needs of underserved popu-
lations.’’;
(2) in subsection (d)(3)—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) include a focus on the unmet needs of
underserved populations.’’;
(3) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘$15,000,000
for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018’’ and
inserting ‘‘$45,000,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024’’; and
(4) in subsection (g), by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(3) REMAINING AMOUNTS.—Any amounts not
made available under paragraphs (1) and (2)
may be used for any set of purposes described in
paragraphs (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (b), or
for a project that fulfills two or more of such
sets of purposes.’’.
TITLE V—STRENGTHENING THE
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS RESPONSE
SEC. 501. GRANTS TO STRENGTHEN THE
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS RESPONSE
TO DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING VI-
OLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND
STALKING.
Section 399P of the Public Health Service Act
(42 U.S.C. 280g–4) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end;
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) the development or enhancement and im-
plementation of training programs to improve
the capacity of early childhood programs to ad-
dress domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, and stalking among families they
serve.’’;
(2) in subsection (b)(1)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by inserting ‘‘,
including labor and sex trafficking’’ after
‘‘other forms of violence and abuse’’;
(B) in subparagraph (B)(ii)—
(i) by striking ‘‘on-site access to’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘patients by increasing’’ and
all that follows through the semicolon and in-
serting the following: ‘‘patients by—
‘‘(I) increasing the capacity of existing health
care professionals and public health staff to ad-
dress domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, and stalking;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.001 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3017
April 3, 2019
‘‘(II) contracting with or hiring advocates for
victims of domestic violence or sexual assault to
provide such services; or
‘‘(III) providing funding to State domestic and
sexual violence coalitions to improve the capac-
ity of such coalitions to coordinate and support
health advocates and other health system part-
nerships;’’;
(C) in subparagraph (B)(iii), by striking
‘‘and’’ at the end;
(D) in subparagraph (B)(iv) by striking the
period at the end and inserting the following: ‘‘,
with priority given to programs administered
through the Health Resources and Services Ad-
ministration, Office of Women’s Health; and’’;
and
(E) in subparagraph (B), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(v) the development, implementation, dis-
semination, and evaluation of best practices,
tools, and training materials for behavioral
health professionals to identify and respond to
domestic violence, sexual violence, stalking, and
dating violence.’’.
(3) in subsection (b)(2)(A)—
(A) in the heading, by striking ‘‘CHILD AND
ELDER ABUSE’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘CHILD ABUSE AND ABUSE IN LATER LIFE’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘child or elder abuse’’ and in-
serting the following: ‘‘child abuse or abuse in
later life’’;
(4) in subsection (b)(2)(C)(i), by striking
‘‘elder abuse’’ and inserting ‘‘abuse in later
life’’;
(5) in subsection (b)(2)(C)(iii), by striking ‘‘or’’
at the end;
(6) in subsection (b)(2)(C)(iv)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘mental health,’’ after ‘‘den-
tal,’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘exams.’’ and inserting
‘‘exams and certifications;’’;
(7) in subsection (b)(2)(C), by inserting after
clause (iv) the following:
‘‘(v) development of a State-level pilot pro-
gram to—
‘‘(I) improve the response of substance use dis-
order treatment programs and systems to domes-
tic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
stalking; and
‘‘(II) improve the capacity of substance use
disorder treatment programs and systems to
serve survivors of domestic violence, dating vio-
lence, sexual assault, and stalking dealing with
substance use disorder; or
‘‘(vi) development and utilization of existing
technical assistance and training resources to
improve the capacity of substance use disorder
treatment programs to address domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalk-
ing among patients the programs serve.’’
(8) in subsection (d)(2)(A)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘or behavioral health’’ after
‘‘of health’’;
(B) by inserting ‘‘behavioral’’ after ‘‘physical
or’’; and
(C) by striking ‘‘mental’’ before ‘‘health
care’’;
(9) in subsection (d)(2)(B)—
(A) by striking ‘‘or health system’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘behavioral health treatment system’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘mental’’ and inserting ‘‘be-
havioral’’;
(10) in subsection (f) in the heading, by strik-
ing ‘‘RESEARCH AND EVALUATION’’ and inserting
‘‘RESEARCH, EVALUATION, AND DATA COLLEC-
TION’’;
(11) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ‘‘research
and evaluation’’ and inserting ‘‘research, eval-
uation, or data collection’’;
(12) in subsection (f)(1)(B), by inserting after
‘‘health care’’ the following: ‘‘or behavioral
health’’;
(13) in subsection (f)(2)—
(A) in the heading, by inserting after ‘‘RE-
SEARCH’’ the following: ‘‘AND DATA COLLEC-
TION’’;
(B) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A),
by inserting ‘‘or data collection’’ before ‘‘au-
thorized in paragraph (1)’’;
(C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(D) in subparagraph (D), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(E) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the
following:
‘‘(E) research on the intersection of substance
use disorder and domestic violence, dating vio-
lence, sexual assault, and stalking, including
the effect of coerced use and efforts by an abu-
sive partner or other to interfere with substance
use disorder treatment and recovery; and
‘‘(F) improvement of data collection using ex-
isting Federal surveys by including questions
about domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, or stalking and substance use disorder,
coerced use, and mental or behavioral health.’’;
(14) in subsection (g), by striking ‘‘2014
through 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through
2024’’; and
(15) in subsection (h), by striking ‘‘herein’’
and ‘‘provided for’’.
TITLE VI—SAFE HOMES FOR VICTIMS
SEC. 601. HOUSING PROTECTIONS FOR VICTIMS
OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING VI-
OLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND
STALKING.
Section 41411 of the Violence Against Women
Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12491) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ‘‘brother,
sister,’’ and inserting ‘‘sibling,’’; and
(B) in paragraph (3)—
(i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting before
the semicolon at the end the following: ‘‘includ-
ing the direct loan program under such sec-
tion’’;
(ii) in subparagraph (D), by striking ‘‘the pro-
gram under subtitle A’’ and inserting ‘‘the pro-
grams under subtitles A through D’’;
(iii) in subparagraph (I)—
(I) by striking ‘‘sections 514, 515, 516, 533, and
538 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1484,
1485, 1486, 1490m, and 1490p–2)’’ and inserting
‘‘sections 514, 515, 516, 533, 538, and 542 of the
Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1484, 1485, 1486,
1490m, 1490p–2, and 1490r)’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
(iv) in subparagraph (J), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(v) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(K) the provision of assistance from the
Housing Trust Fund as established under sec-
tion 1338 of the Federal Housing Enterprises Fi-
nancial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12
U.S.C. 4501);
‘‘(L) the provision of assistance for housing
under the Comprehensive Service Programs for
Homeless Veterans program under subchapter II
of chapter 20 of title 38, United States Code (38
U.S.C. 2011 et seq.);
‘‘(M) the provision of assistance for housing
and facilities under the grant program for home-
less veterans with special needs under section
2061 of title 38, United States Code;
‘‘(N) the provision of assistance for permanent
housing under the program for financial assist-
ance for supportive services for very low-income
veteran families in permanent housing under
section 2044 of title 38, United States Code; and
‘‘(O) any other Federal housing programs pro-
viding affordable housing to low-income persons
by means of restricted rents or rental assistance
as identified by the appropriate agency.’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) COVERED HOUSING PROVIDER.—The term
‘covered housing provider’ refers to the indi-
vidual or entity under a covered housing pro-
gram that has responsibility for the administra-
tion or oversight of housing assisted under a
covered housing program and includes public
housing agencies, sponsors, owners, mortgagors,
managers, grantee under the continuum of
Care, State and local governments or agencies
thereof, and nonprofit or for-profit organiza-
tions or entities.
‘‘(5) CONTINUUM OF CARE.—The term ‘Con-
tinuum of Care’ means the Federal program au-
thorized under subtitle C of title IV of the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 11381 et seq.).
‘‘(6) INTERNAL TRANSFER.—The term ‘internal
transfer’ means a transfer to a unit of the same
covered housing provider and under the same
covered housing program except for programs
under the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance
Act.
‘‘(7) EXTERNAL TRANSFER.—The term ‘external
transfer’ means a transfer to a unit of a dif-
ferent covered housing provider under the same
covered housing program.’’;
(2) in subsection (b)(3)—
(A) in the heading, by inserting after ‘‘CRIMI-
NAL ACTIVITY’’ the following: ‘‘AND FAMILY
BREAK-UP’’;
(B) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as
follows:
‘‘(A) DENIAL OF ASSISTANCE, TENANCY, AND OC-
CUPANCY RIGHTS PROHIBITED.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A tenant shall not be de-
nied assistance, tenancy, or occupancy rights to
housing assisted under a covered housing pro-
gram solely on the basis of criminal activity di-
rectly relating to domestic violence, dating vio-
lence, sexual assault, or stalking that is engaged
in by a member of the household of the tenant
or any guest or other person under the control
of the tenant, if the tenant or an affiliated indi-
vidual of the tenant is the victim or threatened
victim of such domestic violence, dating vio-
lence, sexual assault, or stalking.
‘‘(ii) CRIMINAL ACTIVITY ENGAGED IN BY PER-
PETRATOR OF ABUSE.—A tenant shall not be de-
nied assistance, tenancy, or occupancy rights to
housing assisted under a covered housing pro-
gram solely on the basis of criminal activity, in-
cluding drug-related criminal activity (as such
term is defined section 3(b)(9) of the United
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437a(b)(9)), engaged in by the perpetrator of
the domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, or stalking.
‘‘(iii) REVIEW PRIOR TO DENIAL OF ASSIST-
ANCE.—Prior to denying assistance, tenancy, or
occupancy rights to housing assisted under a
covered housing program to a tenant on the
basis of criminal activity of the tenant, includ-
ing drug-related criminal activity, the covered
housing provider must conduct an individual-
ized review of the totality of the circumstances
regarding the criminal activity at issue if the
tenant is a victim of domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, or stalking. Such re-
view shall include consideration of—
‘‘(I) the nature and severity of the criminal
activity;
‘‘(II) the amount of time that has elapsed
since the occurrence of the criminal activity;
‘‘(III) if the tenant engaged in more than one
instance of criminal activity, the frequency and
duration of the criminal activity;
‘‘(IV) whether the criminal activity was re-
lated to a symptom of a disability, including a
substance use disorder;
‘‘(V) whether the victim was coerced by the
perpetrator of domestic violence, dating vio-
lence, sexual assault, or stalking;
‘‘(VI) whether the victim has taken affirma-
tive steps to reduce the likelihood that the crimi-
nal activity will recur; and
‘‘(VII) any mitigating factors.
The covered housing program must provide the
tenant with a written summary of its review and
the tenant shall have the opportunity to invoke
the covered housing program’s grievance policy
to dispute the findings.’’;
(C) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) in the heading, by striking ‘‘BIFURCATION’’
and inserting ‘‘FAMILY BREAK-UP’’;
(ii) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as
clauses (ii) and (iii) respectively;
(iii) by inserting before clause (ii) (as redesig-
nated by clause (ii) of this subparagraph) the
following:
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—If a family break-up results
from an occurrence of domestic violence, dating
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.001 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3018 April 3, 2019
violence, sexual assault, or stalking, and the
perpetrator no longer resides in the unit and
was the sole tenant eligible to receive assistance
under a covered housing program, the covered
housing provider shall—
‘‘(I) provide any other tenant or resident the
opportunity to establish eligibility for the cov-
ered housing program; or
‘‘(II) provide that tenant or resident with at
least 180 days to remain in the unit under the
same terms and conditions as the perpetrator
and find new housing or establish eligibility for
another covered housing program.’’.
(iv) in clause (ii) (as redesignated by clause
(ii) of this subparagraph)—
(I) in the heading, by striking ‘‘IN GENERAL’’
and inserting ‘‘EVICTION’’; and
(II) by inserting after ‘‘a public housing agen-
cy’’ the following: ‘‘, participating jurisdictions,
grantees under the Continuum of Care, grant-
ees,’’; and
(v) by striking clause (iii) (as redesignated by
clause (ii) of this subparagraph);
(D) in subparagraph (C)—
(i) in clause (iii), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end;
(ii) in clause (iv), by striking the period at the
end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(v) to limit any right, remedy, or procedure
otherwise available under the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law
109–162, 119 Stat. 2960) prior to the date of en-
actment of the Violence Against Women Reau-
thorization Act of 2019.’’; and
(E) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the
following:
‘‘(D) EARLY TERMINATION.—A covered housing
provider shall permit a tenant assisted under
the covered housing program to terminate the
lease at any time prior to the end date of the
lease, without penalty, if the tenant has been a
victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sex-
ual assault, or stalking and the tenant—
‘‘(i) sends notice of the early lease termination
to the landlord in writing prior to or within 3
days of vacating the premises unless a shorter
notice period is provided for under State law;
‘‘(ii)(I) reasonably believes that the tenant is
threatened with imminent harm if the tenant re-
mains within the same dwelling unit subject to
the lease; or
‘‘(II) is a victim of sexual assault, the sexual
assault occurred on the premises during the 180-
day period preceding the request for lease termi-
nation; and
‘‘(iii) provides a form of documentation con-
sistent with the requirements outlined in sub-
section (c)(3).
Nothing in this subparagraph may be construed
to preclude any automatic termination of a lease
by operation of law.’’;
(3) in subsection (c)(4), in the matter pre-
ceding subparagraph (A)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Any information submitted to
a public housing agency or owner or manager’’
and inserting ‘‘Covered housing providers shall
ensure any information submitted’’; and
(B) by inserting after ‘‘owner or manager’’ the
following: ‘‘of housing assisted under a covered
housing program’’;
(4) by amending subsection (e) to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(e) EMERGENCY TRANSFERS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Tenants who are victims of
domestic violence, dating violence, sexual as-
sault, or stalking shall be transferred to another
available and safe dwelling unit assisted under
a covered housing program if—
‘‘(A) the tenant expressly requests the transfer
from the covered housing provider; and
‘‘(B)(i) the tenant reasonably believes that the
tenant is threatened with imminent harm from
further violence if the tenant remains within the
same dwelling unit assisted under a covered
housing program; or
‘‘(ii) in the case of a tenant who is a victim of
sexual assault, the sexual assault occurred on
the premises during the 180 day period preceding
the request for transfer.
A tenant who is not in good standing retains
the right to an emergency transfer if they meet
the eligibility requirements in this section and
the eligibility requirements of the program to
which the tenant intends to transfer.
‘‘(2) POLICIES.—Each appropriate agency
shall adopt an emergency transfer policy for use
by covered housing programs. Such emergency
transfer policies shall reflect the variations in
program operation and administration by cov-
ered housing program type. The policies must,
at a minimum—
‘‘(A) describe a process that—
‘‘(i) permits tenants who are victims of domes-
tic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
stalking to move to another available and safe
dwelling quickly through an internal emergency
transfer and by receiving a tenant protection
voucher, if eligible, pursuant to subsection (f);
‘‘(ii) provides that the victim can choose be-
tween completing an internal emergency trans-
fer or receiving a tenant protection voucher,
whichever is the safest option for the victim;
and
‘‘(iii) requires that an internal emergency
transfer must occur within 10 days after a cov-
ered housing provider’s approval of a request for
an emergency transfer;
‘‘(B) describe a process to permit tenants who
are victims of domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, or stalking to complete an emer-
gency external transfer;
‘‘(C) describe a process that allows a victim of
domestic violence, dating violence, sexual as-
sault, or stalking to temporarily relocate, while
maintaining eligibility for the covered housing
program without the loss of their housing sta-
tus, if there are no alternative comparable hous-
ing program units available, until a safe hous-
ing unit under the covered housing program or
a tenant protection voucher is available;
‘‘(D) prioritize completing internal emergency
transfers and receiving tenant protection vouch-
ers over external emergency transfers, except for
Continua of Care, which shall prioritize com-
pleting an internal emergency transfer or exter-
nal emergency transfer prior to receiving a ten-
ant protection voucher;
‘‘(E) mandate that emergency internal and ex-
ternal transfers take priority over non-emer-
gency transfers;
‘‘(F) mandate that emergency internal and ex-
ternal transfers are not considered new appli-
cants and take priority over existing waiting
lists for a covered housing program;
‘‘(G) incorporate confidentiality measures to
ensure that the appropriate agency and the cov-
ered housing provider do not disclose any infor-
mation regarding a tenant who is victim of do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
or stalking, including the location of a new
dwelling unit to any person or entity without
the written authorization of the tenant;
‘‘(H) mandate that if a victim cannot receive
an internal transfer, external transfer, and a
tenant protection voucher, then the covered
housing provider must assist the victim in iden-
tifying other housing providers who may have
safe and available units to which the victim can
move and that the covered housing provider also
assist tenants in contacting local organizations
offering assistance to victims; and
‘‘(I) mandate a uniform policy for how a vic-
tim of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, or stalking requests an emergency inter-
nal or external transfer.
‘‘(3) LOCAL SYSTEMS FUNDED BY CONTINUUM
OF CARE.—In addition to adopting the policies
as defined in paragraph (2) in an emergency
transfer policy, each grantee under the Con-
tinuum of Care shall designate the entity within
its geographic area that will coordinate and fa-
cilitate emergency transfers, and that entity
shall also—’’.
‘‘(A) coordinate emergency external transfers
among all covered housing providers partici-
pating in the Continuum of Care;
‘‘(B) identify an emergency external transfer,
if available, within 30 days of an approved re-
quest;
‘‘(C) coordinate emergency transfers with
Continua of Care in other jurisdictions in cases
where the victim requests an out-of-jurisdiction
transfer; and
‘‘(D) ensure a victim is not required to be reas-
sessed through the local Continuum of Care in-
take process when seeking an emergency trans-
fer placement.
‘‘(4) REGIONAL OFFICES.—Each regional office
of the Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment (hereinafter in this section referred to as
a ‘HUD regional office’) shall develop and im-
plement a regional emergency transfer plan in
collaboration with public housing agencies and
the entities designated under paragraph (3).
Such a plan shall set forth how public housing
agencies will coordinate emergency transfers
with other public housing agencies regionally.
The plans must be submitted to the Violence
Against Women Director and be made publicly
available. HUD regional offices shall defer to
any additional emergency transfer policies, pri-
orities and strategies set by entities designated
under paragraph (3).
‘‘(5) COVERED HOUSING PROVIDERS.—Each cov-
ered housing provider shall develop and imple-
ment an emergency transfer policy consistent
with the requirements in paragraph (2) or (3).’’;
(5) in subsection (f), by adding at the end the
following: ‘‘The Secretary shall establish these
policies and procedures within 60 days after the
date of enactment of the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2019.’’;
(6) by redesignating subsection (g) as sub-
section (k); and
(7) by inserting after subsection (f) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(g) EMERGENCY TRANSFER POLICIES AND
PROCEDURES.—The head of each appropriate
agency shall establish the policy required under
subsection (e) with respect to emergency trans-
fers and emergency transfer vouchers within 180
days after the date of enactment of the Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2019.
‘‘(h) EMERGENCY TRANSFER VOUCHERS.—Pro-
vision of emergency transfer vouchers to victims
of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual as-
sault, or stalking under subsection (e), shall be
considered an eligible use of any funding for
tenant protection voucher assistance available
under section 8(o) of the United States Housing
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)) subject to the
availability of appropriated funds.
‘‘(i) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry
out emergency transfers under this section,
$20,000,000 under section 8(o) of the United
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o))
for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024.
‘‘(j) TRAINING AND REFERRALS.—
‘‘(1) TRAINING FOR STAFF OF COVERED HOUSING
PROGRAMS.—The Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development, in partnership with domes-
tic violence experts, shall develop mandatory
training for staff of covered housing providers
to provide a basic understanding of domestic vi-
olence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
stalking, and to facilitate implementation of this
section. All staff of covered housing providers
shall attend the basic understanding training
once annually; and all staff and managers en-
gaged in tenant services shall attend both the
basic understanding training and the implemen-
tation training once annually.
‘‘(2) REFERRALS.—The appropriate agency
with respect to each covered housing program
shall supply all appropriate staff of the covered
housing providers with a referral listing of pub-
lic contact information for all domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking
service providers offering services in its coverage
area.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.001 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3019
April 3, 2019
SEC. 602. ENSURING COMPLIANCE AND IMPLE-
MENTATION; PROHIBITING RETALIA-
TION AGAINST VICTIMS.
Chapter 2 of subtitle N of title IV of the Vio-
lence Against Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C.
12491 et seq.) is amended by inserting after sec-
tion 41411 the following:
‘‘SEC. 41412. COMPLIANCE REVIEWS.
‘‘(a) ANNUAL COMPLIANCE REVIEWS.—Each
appropriate agency administering a covered
housing program shall establish a process by
which to review compliance with the require-
ments of this subtitle, on an annual basis, of the
covered housing providers administered by that
agency. Such a review shall examine the fol-
lowing topics:
‘‘(1) Covered housing provider compliance
with requirements prohibiting the denial of as-
sistance, tenancy, or occupancy rights on the
basis of domestic violence, dating violence, sex-
ual assault, or stalking.
‘‘(2) Covered housing provider compliance
with confidentiality provisions set forth in sec-
tion 41411(c)(4).
‘‘(3) Covered housing provider compliance
with the notification requirements set forth in
section 41411(d)(2).
‘‘(4) Covered housing provider compliance
with accepting documentation set forth in sec-
tion 41411(c).
‘‘(5) Covered housing provider compliance
with emergency transfer requirements set forth
in section 41411(e).
‘‘(6) Covered housing provider compliance
with the prohibition on retaliation set forth in
section 41414.
‘‘(b) REGULATIONS.—Each appropriate agency
shall issue regulations to implement subsection
(a) not later than one year after the effective
date of the Violence Against Women Reauthor-
ization Act of 2019. These regulations shall—
‘‘(1) define standards of compliance for cov-
ered housing providers;
‘‘(2) include detailed reporting requirements,
including the number of emergency transfers re-
quested and granted, as well as the length of
time needed to process emergency transfers,
disaggregated by external and internal trans-
fers; and
‘‘(3) include standards for corrective action
plans where a covered housing provider has
failed to meet compliance standards.
‘‘(c) PUBLIC DISCLOSURE.—Each appropriate
agency shall ensure that an agency-level assess-
ment of the information collected during the
compliance review process completed pursuant
to this subsection is made publicly available.
This agency-level assessment shall include an
evaluation of each topic identified in subsection
(a).
‘‘(d) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed—
‘‘(1) to limit any claim filed or other pro-
ceeding commenced, by the date of enactment of
the Violence Against Women Reauthorization
Act of 2019, with regard to any right, remedy, or
procedure otherwise available under the Vio-
lence Against Women Reauthorization Act of
2005 (Public Law 109–162, 119 Stat. 2960), as in
effect on the day prior to such date of enact-
ment; or
‘‘(2) to supersede any provision of any Fed-
eral, State, or local law that provides greater
protection than this subsection for victims of do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
or stalking.
‘‘SEC. 41413. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT VIOLENCE
AGAINST WOMEN DIRECTOR.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There shall be, within
the Office of the Secretary of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, a Violence
Against Women Director (in this section referred
to as the ‘Director’).
‘‘(b) DUTIES.—The Director shall—
‘‘(1) support implementation of the provisions
of this subtitle;
‘‘(2) coordinate development of Federal regu-
lations, policy, protocols, and guidelines on
matters relating to the implementation of this
subtitle, at each agency administering a covered
housing program;
‘‘(3) advise and coordinate with designated of-
ficials within the United States Interagency
Council on Homelessness, the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, the Depart-
ment of the Treasury, the Department of Agri-
culture, the Department of Health and Human
Services, the Department of Veterans Affairs,
and the Department of Justice concerning legis-
lation, implementation, and other issues relating
to or affecting the housing provisions under this
subtitle;
‘‘(4) provide technical assistance, coordina-
tion, and support to each appropriate agency
regarding advancing housing protections and
access to housing for victims of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalk-
ing, including compliance with this subtitle;
‘‘(5) ensure that adequate technical assistance
is made available to covered housing providers
regarding implementation of this subtitle, as
well as other issues related to advancing hous-
ing protections for victims of domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking,
including compliance with this subtitle;
‘‘(6) act as a liaison with the judicial branches
of Federal, State, and local governments on
matters relating to the housing needs of victims
of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual as-
sault, and stalking;
‘‘(7) implement a quality control system and a
corrective action plan system for those covered
housing providers that fail to comply with this
subtitle, wherein—
‘‘(A) such corrective action plans shall be de-
veloped in partnership with national, State, or
local programs focused on child or adult victims
of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual as-
sault, or stalking; and
‘‘(B) such corrective action plans shall include
provisions requiring covered housing providers
to review and develop appropriate notices, pro-
cedures, and staff training to improve compli-
ance with this subtitle, in partnership with na-
tional, state, or local programs focused on child
or adult victims;
‘‘(8) establish a formal reporting process to re-
ceive individual complaints concerning non-
compliance with this subtitle;
‘‘(9) coordinate the development of inter-
agency guidelines to ensure that information
concerning available dwelling units is for-
warded to the Director by all covered housing
providers for use by the Secretary in facilitating
the emergency transfer process;
‘‘(10) coordinate with HUD regional offices
and officials at each appropriate agency the de-
velopment of Federal regulations, policy, proto-
cols, and guidelines regarding uniform time-
frames for the completion of emergency trans-
fers; and
‘‘(11) ensure that the guidance and notices to
victims are distributed in commonly encountered
languages.
‘‘(c) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed—
‘‘(1) to limit any claim filed or other pro-
ceeding commenced, by the date of enactment of
the Violence Against Women Reauthorization
Act of 2019, with regard to any right, remedy, or
procedure otherwise available under the Vio-
lence Against Women Reauthorization Act of
2005 (Public Law 109–162, 119 Stat. 2960), as in
effect on the day prior to such date of enact-
ment; or
‘‘(2) to supersede any provision of any Fed-
eral, State, or local law that provides greater
protection than this subsection for victims of do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
or stalking.
‘‘SEC. 41414. PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION.
‘‘(a) NONDISCRIMINATION REQUIREMENT.—No
covered housing provider shall discriminate
against any person because that person has op-
posed any act or practice made unlawful by this
subtitle, or because that individual testified, as-
sisted, or participated in any matter related to
this subtitle.
‘‘(b) PROHIBITION ON COERCION.—No covered
housing provider shall coerce, intimidate,
threaten, or interfere with, or retaliate against,
any person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or
on account of the person having exercised or en-
joyed, or on account of the person having aided
or encouraged any other individual in the exer-
cise or enjoyment of, any rights or protections
under this subtitle, including—
‘‘(1) intimidating or threatening any person
because that person is assisting or encouraging
an individual entitled to claim the rights or pro-
tections under this subtitle; and
‘‘(2) retaliating against any person because
that person has participated in any investiga-
tion or action to enforce this subtitle.
‘‘(c) ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY OF THE SEC-
RETARY.—The authority of the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development and the Office
for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity to en-
force this section shall be the same as the Fair
Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3610 et seq.).’’.
SEC. 603. PROTECTING THE RIGHT TO REPORT
CRIME FROM ONE’S HOME.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 2 of subtitle N of
title IV of the Violence Against Women Act of
1994 (34 U.S.C. 12491 et seq.), as amended by this
Act, is further amended by inserting after sec-
tion 41414 the following:
‘‘SEC. 41415. RIGHT TO REPORT CRIME AND EMER-
GENCIES FROM ONE’S HOME.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Landlords, homeowners,
residents, occupants, and guests of, and appli-
cants for, housing assisted under a covered
housing program shall have the right to seek
law enforcement or emergency assistance on
their own behalf or on behalf of another person
in need of assistance, and shall not be penalized
based on their requests for assistance or based
on criminal activity of which they are a victim
or otherwise not at fault under statutes, ordi-
nances, regulations, or policies adopted or en-
forced by covered governmental entities as de-
fined in subsection (d). Penalties that are pro-
hibited include—
‘‘(1) actual or threatened assessment of pen-
alties, fees, or fines;
‘‘(2) actual or threatened eviction;
‘‘(3) actual or threatened refusal to rent or
renew tenancy;
‘‘(4) actual or threatened refusal to issue an
occupancy permit or landlord permit; and
‘‘(5) actual or threatened closure of the prop-
erty, or designation of the property as a nui-
sance or a similarly negative designation.
‘‘(b) REPORTING.—Consistent with the process
provided for in section 104(b) of the Housing
and Community Development Act of 1974 (42
U.S.C. 5304(b)), covered governmental entities
shall—
‘‘(1) report any of their laws or policies, or, as
applicable, the laws or policies adopted by sub-
grantees, that impose penalties on landlords,
homeowners, residents, occupants, guests, or
housing applicants based on requests for law
enforcement or emergency assistance or based
on criminal activity that occurred at a property;
and
‘‘(2) certify that they are in compliance with
the protections under this subtitle or describe
the steps they will take within 180 days to come
into compliance, or to ensure compliance among
subgrantees.
‘‘(c) OVERSIGHT.—Oversight and account-
ability mechanisms provided for under title VIII
of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3601 et
seq.) shall be available to address violations of
this section.
‘‘(d) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this sec-
tion, ‘covered governmental entity’ shall mean
any municipal, county, or state government that
receives funding pursuant to section 106 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.001 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3020 April 3, 2019
‘‘(e) SUBGRANTEES.—For those covered govern-
mental entities that distribute funds to sub-
grantees, compliance with subsection (b)(1) in-
cludes inquiring about the existence of laws and
policies adopted by subgrantees that impose
penalties on landlords, homeowners, residents,
occupants, guests, or housing applicants based
on requests for law enforcement or emergency
assistance or based on criminal activity that oc-
curred at a property.’’.
(b) SUPPORTING EFFECTIVE, ALTERNATIVE
CRIME REDUCTION METHODS.—
(1) ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZED USE OF BYRNE-JAG
FUNDS.—Section 501(a)(1) of subpart 1 of part E
of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe
Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10152(a)(1)) is
amended by adding after subparagraph (H) the
following:
‘‘(I) Programs for the development and imple-
mentation of alternative methods of reducing
crime in communities, to supplant punitive pro-
grams or policies. For purposes of this subpara-
graph, a punitive program or policy is a pro-
gram or policy that (i) imposes a penalty on a
victim of domestic violence, dating violence, sex-
ual assault, or stalking, on the basis of a re-
quest by the victim for law enforcement or emer-
gency assistance; or (ii) imposes a penalty on
such a victim because of criminal activity at the
property in which the victim resides.’’.
(2) ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZED USE OF COPS
FUNDS.—Section 1701(b) of part Q of title I of the
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 (34 U.S.C. 10381(b)) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (22), by striking ‘‘and’’ after
the semicolon;
(B) in paragraph (23), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(24) to develop and implement alternative
methods of reducing crime in communities, to
supplant punitive programs or policies (as such
term is defined in section 501(a)(1)(I)).’’.
(3) ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZED USE OF GRANTS
TO ENCOURAGE ARREST POLICIES.—Section
2101(b) of part U of title I of the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C.
10461(b)), as amended by this Act, is further
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(25) To develop and implement alternative
methods of reducing crime in communities, to
supplant punitive programs or policies. For pur-
poses of this paragraph, a punitive program or
policy is a program or policy that (A) imposes a
penalty on a victim of domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, or stalking, on the
basis of a request by the victim for law enforce-
ment or emergency assistance; or (B) imposes a
penalty on such a victim because of criminal ac-
tivity at the property in which the victim re-
sides.’’.
SEC. 604. TRANSITIONAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE
GRANTS FOR VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE, DATING VIOLENCE, SEX-
UAL ASSAULT, OR STALKING.
Section 40299 of the Violence Against Women
Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12351) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding
paragraph (1)—
(A) by striking ‘‘the Director of the Violence
Against Women Office’’ and inserting ‘‘the Di-
rector of the Office on Violence Against
Women’’; and
(B) by inserting after ‘‘, other nonprofit, non-
governmental organizations’’ the following: ‘‘,
population-specific organizations’’; and
(2) in subsection (g)—
(A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘2014
through 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through
2024’’; and
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘5 percent’’
and inserting ‘‘8 percent’’.
SEC. 605. ADDRESSING THE HOUSING NEEDS OF
VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE,
DATING VIOLENCE, SEXUAL AS-
SAULT, AND STALKING.
(a) MCKINNEY-VENTO HOMELESS ASSISTANCE
GRANTS.—Section 423(a) of the McKinney-Vento
Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11383(a)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(13) Facilitating and coordinating activities
to ensure compliance with section 41411(e) of the
Violence Against Women Act of 1994, including,
in consultation with the regional office (if appli-
cable) of the appropriate agency (as such term
is defined in section 41411 of the Violence
Against Women Act of 1994), development of ex-
ternal emergency transfer memoranda of under-
standing between covered housing providers,
participating in the local Continua of Care, fa-
cilitation of external emergency transfers be-
tween those covered housing providers partici-
pating in the local Continua of Care, and moni-
toring compliance with the confidentiality pro-
tections of section 41411(c)(4) of the Violence
Against Women Act of 1994 for reporting to that
regional office.’’.
(b) DEFINITION OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AND
OTHER DANGEROUS OR LIFE-THREATENING CON-
DITIONS AMENDED.—Section 103(b) of the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 11302(b)) is amended to read as follows:
(b) DOMESTIC VIOLENCE AND OTHER DAN-
GEROUS OR LIFE-THREATENING CONDITIONS.—
Notwithstanding any other provision of this sec-
tion, the Secretary shall consider to be homeless
any individual or family who—
‘‘(1) is fleeing, or attempting to flee, domestic
violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalk-
ing, and who have no other residence and lack
resoures to obtain other permanent housing; or
‘‘(2) is fleeing or attempting to flee a dan-
gerous or life-threateniing condition in the indi-
vidual’s or family’s current housing situation,
including where the health and safety of chil-
dren are jeopardized and who have no other res-
idence and lack the resources or support net-
works to obtain other permanent housing.’.
(c) COLLABORATIVE GRANTS TO INCREASE THE
LONG-TERM STABILITY OF VICTIMS.—Section
41404(i) of the Violence Against Women Act of
1994 (34 U.S.C. 12474(i)) is amended by striking
‘‘2014 through 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020
through 2024’’.
(d) GRANTS TO COMBAT VIOLENCE AGAINST
WOMEN IN PUBLIC AND ASSISTED HOUSING.—Sec-
tion 41405 of the Violence Against Women Act of
1994 (34 U.S.C. 12475) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘the Director
of the Violence Against Women Office’’ and in-
serting ‘‘the Director of the Office on Violence
Against Women’’;
(2) in subsection (c)(2)(D), by inserting after
‘‘linguistically and culturally specific service
providers,’’ the following: ‘‘population-specific
organizations,’’; and
(3) in subsection (g), by striking ‘‘2014 through
2018’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘2020 through
2024’’.
SEC. 606. UNITED STATES HOUSING ACT OF 1937
AMENDMENTS.
Section 5A(d) of the United States Housing
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437c–1(d)) is amended—
(1) by amending paragraph (13) to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(13) DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING VIOLENCE,
SEXUAL ASSAULT, OR STALKING PROGRAMS.—
‘‘(A) COPIES.—A copy of—
‘‘(i) all standardized notices issued pursuant
to the housing protections under subtitle N of
the Violence Against Women Act of 1994, includ-
ing the notice required under section 41411(d) of
the Violence Against Women Act of 1994;
‘‘(ii) the emergency transfer plan issued pur-
suant to section 41411 of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994; and
‘‘(iii) any and all memoranda of under-
standing with other covered housing providers
developed to facilitate emergency transfers
under section 41411(e) of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994.
‘‘(B) DESCRIPTIONS.—A description of—
‘‘(i) any activities, services, or programs pro-
vided or offered by an agency, either directly or
in partnership with other service providers, to
child or adult victims of domestic violence, dat-
ing violence, sexual assault, or stalking;
‘‘(ii) any activities, services, or programs pro-
vided or offered by a public housing agency that
helps child and adult victims of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalk-
ing, to obtain or maintain housing;
‘‘(iii) any activities, services, or programs pro-
vided or offered by a public housing agency to
prevent domestic violence, dating violence, sex-
ual assault, and stalking, or to enhance victim
safety in assisted families; and
‘‘(iv) all training and support services offered
to staff of the public housing agency to provide
a basic understanding of domestic violence, dat-
ing violence, sexual assault, and stalking, and
to facilitate implementation of the housing pro-
tections of section 41411 of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994.’’; and
(2) in pararaph (16), by inserting ‘‘the Vio-
lence Against Women Act of 1994,’’ before ‘‘the
Fair Housing Act’’.
TITLE VII—ECONOMIC SECURITY FOR
VICTIMS
SEC. 701. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Over 1 in 3 women experience sexual vio-
lence, and 1 in 5 women have survived com-
pleted or attempted rape. Such violence has a
devastating impact on women’s physical and
emotional health, financial security, and ability
to maintain their jobs, and thus impacts inter-
state commerce and economic security.
(2) The Office on Violence Against Women of
the Department of Justice defines domestic vio-
lence as a pattern of abusive behavior in any re-
lationship that is used by one intimate partner
to gain or maintain power and control over an-
other intimate partner. Domestic violence can
include physical, sexual, emotional, economic,
or psychological actions or threats of actions
that influence another person. Domestic vio-
lence includes any behaviors that intimidate,
manipulate, humiliate, isolate, frighten, ter-
rorize, coerce, threaten, blame, hurt, injure, or
wound an individual.
(3) The Centers for Disease Control and Pre-
vention report that domestic violence or intimate
partner violence is a serious public health issue
for millions of individuals in the United States.
Nearly 1 in 4 women and 1 in 9 men in the
United States have suffered sexual violence,
physical violence, or stalking by an intimate
partner.
(4) Homicide is one of the leading causes of
death for women on the job. Domestic partners
or relatives commit 43 percent of workplace
homicides against women. One study found that
intimate partner violence resulted in 142 homi-
cides among women at work in the United States
from 2003 to 2008, a figure which represents 22
percent of the 648 workplace homicides among
women during the period. In fact, in 2010, homi-
cides against women at work increased by 13
percent despite continuous declines in overall
workplace homicides in recent years.
(5) Women in the United States are 11 times
more likely to be murdered with guns than
women in other high-income countries. Female
intimate partners are more likely to be murdered
with a firearm than all other means combined.
The presence of a gun in domestic violence situ-
ations increases the risk of homicide for women
by 500 percent.
(6) Violence can have a dramatic impact on
the survivor of such violence. Studies indicate
that 44 percent of surveyed employed adults ex-
perienced the effect of domestic violence in the
workplace, and 64 percent indicated their work-
place performance was affected by such vio-
lence. Another recent survey found that 78 per-
cent of offenders used workplace resources to
express anger, check up on, pressure, or threat-
en a survivor. Sexual assault, whether occurring
in or out of the workplace, can impair an em-
ployee’s work performance, require time away
from work, and undermine the employee’s abil-
ity to maintain a job. Nearly 50 percent of sex-
ual assault survivors lose their jobs or are forced
to quit in the aftermath of the assaults.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.001 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3021
April 3, 2019
(7) Studies find that 60 percent of single
women lack economic security and 81 percent of
households with single mothers live in economic
insecurity. Significant barriers that survivors
confront include access to housing, transpor-
tation, and child care. Ninety-two percent of
homeless women have experienced domestic vio-
lence, and more than 50 percent of such women
cite domestic violence as the direct cause for
homelessness. Survivors are deprived of their
autonomy, liberty, and security, and face tre-
mendous threats to their health and safety.
(8) The Centers for Disease Control and Pre-
vention report that survivors of severe intimate
partner violence lose nearly 8,000,000 days of
paid work, which is the equivalent of more than
32,000 full-time jobs and almost 5,600,000 days of
household productivity each year. Therefore,
women disproportionately need time off to care
for their health or to find safety solutions, such
as obtaining a restraining order or finding hous-
ing, to avoid or prevent further violence.
(9) Annual costs of intimate partner violence
are estimated to be more than $8,300,000,000. Ac-
cording to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, the costs of intimate partner vio-
lence against women in 1995 exceeded an esti-
mated $5,800,000,000. These costs included near-
ly $4,100,000,000 in the direct costs of medical
and mental health care and nearly
$1,800,000,000 in the indirect costs of lost pro-
ductivity. These statistics are generally consid-
ered to be underestimated because the costs as-
sociated with the criminal justice system are not
included.
(10) Fifty-five percent of senior executives re-
cently surveyed said domestic violence has a
harmful effect on their company’s productivity,
and more than 70 percent said domestic violence
negatively affects attendance. Seventy-eight
percent of human resources professionals con-
sider partner violence a workplace issue. How-
ever, more than 70 percent of United States
workplaces have no formal program or policy
that addresses workplace violence, let alone do-
mestic violence. In fact, only four percent of em-
ployers provided training on domestic violence.
(11) Studies indicate that one of the best pre-
dictors of whether a survivor will be able to stay
away from his or her abuser is the degree of his
or her economic independence. However, domes-
tic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
stalking often negatively impact a survivor’s
ability to maintain employment.
(12) Abusers frequently seek to exert financial
control over their partners by actively inter-
fering with their ability to work, including pre-
venting their partners from going to work,
harassing their partners at work, limiting their
partners’ access to cash or transportation, and
sabotaging their partners’ child care arrange-
ments.
(13) Economic abuse refers to behaviors that
control an intimate partner’s ability to acquire,
use, and maintain access to, money, credit, own-
ership of assets, or access to governmental or
private financial benefits, including defaulting
on joint obligations (such as school loans, credit
card debt, mortgages, or rent). Other forms of
such abuse may include preventing someone
from attending school, threatening to or actu-
ally terminating employment, controlling or
withholding access to cash, checking, or credit
accounts, and attempting to damage or sabotage
the creditworthiness of an intimate partner, in-
cluding forcing an intimate partner to write bad
checks, forcing an intimate partner to default
on payments related to household needs, such
as housing, or forcing an intimate partner into
bankruptcy.
(14) The Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act (Public Law 111–148), and the amend-
ments made by such Act, ensures that most
health plans must cover preventive services, in-
cluding screening and counseling for domestic
violence, at no additional cost. In addition, it
prohibits insurance companies from discrimi-
nating against patients for preexisting condi-
tions, like domestic violence.
(15) Yet, more can be done to help survivors.
Federal law in effect on the day before the date
of enactment of this Act does not explicitly—
(A) authorize survivors of domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking to
take leave from work to seek legal assistance
and redress, counseling, or assistance with safe-
ty planning activities;
(B) address the eligibility of survivors of do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
or stalking for unemployment compensation;
(C) provide job protection to survivors of do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
or stalking;
(D) prohibit insurers and employers who self-
insure employee benefits from discriminating
against survivors of domestic violence, dating vi-
olence, sexual assault, or stalking and those
who help them in determining eligibility, rates
charged, and standards for payment of claims;
or
(E) prohibit insurers from disclosing informa-
tion about abuse and the location of the sur-
vivors through insurance databases and other
means.
(16) This Act aims to empower survivors of do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
or stalking to be free from violence, hardship,
and control, which restrains basic human rights
to freedom and safety in the United States.
SEC. 702. NATIONAL RESOURCE CENTER ON
WORKPLACE RESPONSES TO ASSIST
VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC AND SEXUAL
VIOLENCE.
Section 41501 of the Violent Crime Control and
Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12501) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘and sexual harassment’’
after ‘‘domestic and sexual violence’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘employers and labor organi-
zations’’ and inserting ‘‘employers, labor orga-
nizations, and victim service providers’’;
(2) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ‘‘and stalk-
ing’’ and inserting ‘‘stalking, and sexual har-
assment’’;
(3) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting before the
period at the end ‘‘or sexual harassment’’;
(4) in subsection (c)(2)(A), by inserting ‘‘or
sexual harassment’’ after ‘‘sexual violence’’;
and
(5) in subsection (e), by striking ‘‘$1,000,000
for each of fiscal years 2014 through 2018’’ and
inserting ‘‘$2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2024’’.
SEC. 703. ENTITLEMENT TO UNEMPLOYMENT
COMPENSATION FOR VICTIMS OF
SEXUAL AND OTHER HARASSMENT
AND SURVIVORS OF DOMESTIC VIO-
LENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, OR STALK-
ING.
(a) UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION.—
(1) Section 3304(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 is amended by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end of paragraph (18), by redesignating
paragraph (19) as paragraph (20), and by insert-
ing after paragraph (18) the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(19) no person may be denied compensation
under such State law solely on the basis of the
individual having a voluntary separation from
work if such separation is attributable to such
individual being a victim of sexual or other har-
assment or a survivor of domestic violence, sex-
ual assault, or stalking; and’’.
(2) Section 3304 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(g) SEXUAL OR OTHER HARASSMENT; ETC.—
‘‘(1) DOCUMENTATION.—For purposes of sub-
section (a)(19), a voluntary separation of an in-
dividual shall be considered to be attributable to
such individual being a survivor or victim of
sexual or other harassment or a survivor of do-
mestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking if
such individual submits such evidence as the
State deems sufficient.
‘‘(2) SUFFICIENT DOCUMENTATION.—For pur-
poses of paragraph (1), a State shall deem suffi-
cient, at a minimum—
‘‘(A) evidence of such harassment, violence,
assault, or stalking in the form of—
‘‘(i) a sworn statement and a form of identi-
fication,
‘‘(ii) a police or court record, or
‘‘(iii) documentation from a victim service pro-
vider, an attorney, a police officer, a medical
professional, a social worker, an antiviolence
counselor, a member of the clergy, or another
professional, and
‘‘(B) an attestation that such voluntary sepa-
ration is attributable to such harassment, vio-
lence, assault, or stalking.
‘‘(3) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sec-
tion—
‘‘(A) The terms ‘domestic violence’, ‘sexual as-
sault’, and ‘stalking’ victim of sexual or other
harassment’, and ‘survivor of domestic violence,
sexual assault, or stalking’ have the meanings
given such terms under State law, regulation, or
policy.
‘‘(B) The term ‘victim service provider’ has the
meaning given such term in section 40002 of the
Violence Against Women Act of 1994.’’.
(b) UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION PER-
SONNEL TRAINING.—Section 303(a) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 503(a)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through
(12) as paragraphs (5) through (13), respectively;
and
(2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(4)(A) Such methods of administration as
will ensure that—
‘‘(i) applicants for unemployment compensa-
tion and individuals inquiring about such com-
pensation are notified of the provisions of sec-
tion 3304(a)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986; and
‘‘(ii) claims reviewers and hearing personnel
are trained in—
‘‘(I) the nature and dynamics of sexual and
other harassment, domestic violence, sexual as-
sault, or stalking; and
‘‘(II) methods of ascertaining and keeping
confidential information about possible experi-
ences of sexual and other harassment, domestic
violence, sexual assault, or stalking to ensure
that—
‘‘(aa) requests for unemployment compensa-
tion based on separations stemming from sexual
and other harassment, domestic violence, sexual
assault, or stalking are identified and adju-
dicated; and
‘‘(bb) confidentiality is provided for the indi-
vidual’s claim and submitted evidence.
‘‘(B) For purposes of this paragraph—
‘‘(i) the terms ‘domestic violence’, ‘sexual as-
sault’, and ‘stalking’ have the meanings given
such terms in section 40002 of the Violence
Against Women Act of 1994 ;
‘‘(ii) the term ‘sexual and other harassment’
has the meaning given such term under State
law, regulation, or policy; and
‘‘(iii) the term ‘survivor of domestic violence,
sexual assault, or stalking’ means—
‘‘(I) a person who has experienced or is expe-
riencing domestic violence, sexual assault, or
stalking; and
‘‘(II) a person whose family or household
member has experienced or is experiencing do-
mestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking.’’.
(c) TANF PERSONNEL TRAINING.—Section
402(a) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
602(a)) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing new paragraph:
‘‘(8) CERTIFICATION THAT THE STATE WILL PRO-
VIDE INFORMATION TO SURVIVORS OF SEXUAL AND
OTHER HARASSMENT, DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, SEX-
UAL ASSAULT, OR STALKING.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A certification by the chief
executive officer of the State that the State has
established and is enforcing standards and pro-
cedures to—
‘‘(i) ensure that applicants for assistance
under the State program funded under this part
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.001 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3022 April 3, 2019
and individuals inquiring about such assistance
are adequately notified of—
‘‘(I) the provisions of section 3304(a)(19) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and
‘‘(II) assistance made available by the State to
survivors of sexual and other harassment, do-
mestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking;
‘‘(ii) ensure that case workers and other agen-
cy personnel responsible for administering the
State program funded under this part are ade-
quately trained in—
‘‘(I) the nature and dynamics of sexual and
other harassment, domestic violence, sexual as-
sault, or stalking;
‘‘(II) State standards and procedures relating
to the prevention of, and assistance for individ-
uals who are survivors of sexual and other har-
assment, domestic violence, sexual assault, or
stalking; and
‘‘(III) methods of ascertaining and keeping
confidential information about possible experi-
ences of sexual and other harassment, domestic
violence, sexual assault, or stalking;
‘‘(iii) ensure that, if a State has elected to es-
tablish and enforce standards and procedures
regarding the screening for, and identification
of, domestic violence pursuant to paragraph
(7)—
‘‘(I) applicants for assistance under the State
program funded under this part and individuals
inquiring about such assistance are adequately
notified of options available under such stand-
ards and procedures; and
‘‘(II) case workers and other agency personnel
responsible for administering the State program
funded under this part are provided with ade-
quate training regarding such standards and
procedures and options available under such
standards and procedures; and
‘‘(iv) ensure that the training required under
subparagraphs (B) and, if applicable, (C)(ii) is
provided through a training program operated
by an eligible entity.
‘‘(B) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this para-
graph—
‘‘(i) the terms ‘domestic violence’, ‘sexual as-
sault’, and ‘stalking’ have the meanings given
such terms in section 40002 of the Violence
Against Women Act of 1994 ;
‘‘(ii) the term ‘sexual and other harassment’
has the meaning given such term under State
law, regulation, or policy; and
‘‘(iii) the term ‘survivor of domestic violence,
sexual assault, or stalking’ means—
‘‘(I) a person who has experienced or is expe-
riencing domestic violence, sexual assault, or
stalking; and
‘‘(II) a person whose family or household
member has experienced or is experiencing do-
mestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking.’’.
(d) SEXUAL AND OTHER HARASSMENT, DOMES-
TIC VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, OR STALKING
TRAINING GRANT PROGRAM.—
(1) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—The Secretary of
Labor (in this subsection referred to as the ‘‘Sec-
retary’’) is authorized to award—
(A) a grant to a national victim service pro-
vider in order for such organization to—
(i) develop and disseminate a model training
program (and related materials) for the training
required under section 303(a)(4)(B) of the Social
Security Act, as added by subsection (b), and
under subparagraph (B) and, if applicable, sub-
paragraph (C)(ii) of section 402(a)(8) of such
Act, as added by subsection (c); and
(ii) provide technical assistance with respect
to such model training program, including tech-
nical assistance to the temporary assistance for
needy families program and unemployment com-
pensation personnel; and
(B) grants to State, tribal, or local agencies in
order for such agencies to contract with eligible
entities to provide State, tribal, or local case-
workers and other State, tribal, or local agency
personnel responsible for administering the tem-
porary assistance for needy families program es-
tablished under part A of title IV of the Social
Security Act in a State or Indian reservation
with the training required under subparagraph
(B) and, if applicable, subparagraph (C)(ii) of
such section 402(a)(8).
(2) ELIGIBLE ENTITY DEFINED.—For purposes
of paragraph (1)(B), the term ‘‘eligible entity’’
means an entity—
(A) that is—
(i) a State or tribal domestic violence coalition
or sexual assault coalition;
(ii) a State or local victim service provider
with recognized expertise in the dynamics of do-
mestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking
whose primary mission is to provide services to
survivors of domestic violence, sexual assault, or
stalking, including a rape crisis center or domes-
tic violence program; or
(iii) an organization with demonstrated exper-
tise in State or county welfare laws and imple-
mentation of such laws and experience with dis-
seminating information on such laws and imple-
mentation, but only if such organization will
provide the required training in partnership
with an entity described in clause (i) or (ii); and
(B) that—
(i) has demonstrated expertise in the dynamics
of both domestic violence and sexual assault,
such as a joint domestic violence and sexual as-
sault coalition; or
(ii) will provide the required training in part-
nership with an entity described in clause (i) or
(ii) of subparagraph (A) in order to comply with
the dual domestic violence and sexual assault
expertise requirement under clause (i).
(3) APPLICATION.—An entity seeking a grant
under this subsection shall submit an applica-
tion to the Secretary at such time, in such form
and manner, and containing such information
as the Secretary specifies.
(4) REPORTS.—
(A) REPORTS TO CONGRESS.—Not later than a
year after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall
submit to Congress a report on the grant pro-
gram established under this subsection.
(B) REPORTS AVAILABLE TO PUBLIC.—The Sec-
retary shall establish procedures for the dissemi-
nation to the public of each report submitted
under subparagraph (A). Such procedures shall
include the use of the internet to disseminate
such reports.
(5) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to be
appropriated—
(i) $1,000,000 for fiscal year 2020 to carry out
the provisions of paragraph (1)(A); and
(ii) $12,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2024 to carry out the provisions of para-
graph (1)(B).
(B) THREE-YEAR AVAILABILITY OF GRANT
FUNDS.—Each recipient of a grant under this
subsection shall return to the Secretary any un-
used portion of such grant not later than 3
years after the date the grant was awarded, to-
gether with any earnings on such unused por-
tion.
(C) AMOUNTS RETURNED.—Any amounts re-
turned pursuant to subparagraph (B) shall be
available without further appropriation to the
Secretary for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of paragraph (1)(B).
(e) EFFECT ON EXISTING LAWS, ETC.—
(1) MORE PROTECTIVE LAWS, AGREEMENTS,
PROGRAMS, AND PLANS.—Nothing in this title
shall be construed to supersede any provision of
any Federal, State, or local law, collective bar-
gaining agreement, or employment benefits pro-
gram or plan that provides greater unemploy-
ment insurance benefits for survivors of sexual
and other harassment, domestic violence, sexual
assault, or stalking than the rights established
under this title.
(2) LESS PROTECTIVE LAWS, AGREEMENTS, PRO-
GRAMS, AND PLANS.—Any law, collective bar-
gaining agreement, or employment benefits pro-
gram or plan of a State or unit of local govern-
ment is preempted to the extent that such law,
agreement, or program or plan would impair the
exercise of any right established under this title
or the amendments made by this title.
(f) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) UNEMPLOYMENT AMENDMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in sub-
paragraph (B) and paragraph (2), the amend-
ments made by this section shall apply in the
case of compensation paid for weeks beginning
on or after the expiration of the 180-day period
beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
(B) EXTENSION OF EFFECTIVE DATE FOR STATE
LAW AMENDMENT.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in para-
graph (2), in a case in which the Secretary of
Labor identifies a State as requiring a change to
its statutes, regulations, or policies in order to
comply with the amendments made by this sec-
tion, such amendments shall apply in the case
of compensation paid for weeks beginning after
the earlier of—
(I) the date the State changes its statutes, reg-
ulations, or policies in order to comply with
such amendments; or
(II) the end of the first session of the State
legislature which begins after the date of enact-
ment of this Act or which began prior to such
date and remained in session for at least 25 cal-
endar days after such date, except that in no
case shall such amendments apply before the
date that is 180 days after the date of enactment
of this Act.
(ii) SESSION DEFINED.—In this subparagraph,
the term ‘‘session’’ means a regular, special,
budget, or other session of a State legislature.
(2) TANF AMENDMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in sub-
paragraph (B), the amendment made by sub-
section (c) shall take effect on the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(B) EXTENSION OF EFFECTIVE DATE FOR STATE
LAW AMENDMENT.—In the case of a State plan
under part A of title IV of the Social Security
Act which the Secretary of Health and Human
Services determines requires State action (in-
cluding legislation, regulation, or other adminis-
trative action) in order for the plan to meet the
additional requirements imposed by the amend-
ment made by subsection (c), the State plan
shall not be regarded as failing to comply with
the requirements of such amendment on the
basis of its failure to meet these additional re-
quirements before the first day of the first cal-
endar quarter beginning after the close of the
first regular session of the State legislature that
begins after the date of enactment of this Act.
For purposes of the previous sentence, in the
case of a State that has a two-year legislative
session, each year of the session is considered to
be a separate regular session of the State legisla-
ture.
(g) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the terms
‘‘domestic violence’’, ‘‘sexual assault’’, ‘‘stalk-
ing’’, ‘‘survivor of domestic violence, sexual as-
sault, or stalking’’, and ‘‘victim service pro-
vider’’ have the meanings given such terms in
section 3304(g) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986.
SEC. 704. STUDY AND REPORTS ON BARRIERS TO
SURVIVORS’ ECONOMIC SECURITY
ACCESS.
(a) STUDY.—The Secretary of Health and
Human Services, in consultation with the Sec-
retary of Labor, shall conduct a study on the
barriers that survivors of domestic violence, dat-
ing violence, sexual assault, or stalking
throughout the United States experience in
maintaining economic security as a result of
issues related to domestic violence, dating vio-
lence, sexual assault, or stalking.
(b) REPORTS.—Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of this title, and every 5 years
thereafter, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, in consultation with the Secretary of
Labor, shall submit a report to Congress on the
study conducted under subsection (a).
(c) CONTENTS.—The study and reports under
this section shall include—
(1) identification of geographic areas in which
State laws, regulations, and practices have a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.001 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3023
April 3, 2019
strong impact on the ability of survivors of do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
or stalking to exercise—
(A) any rights under this Act without compro-
mising personal safety or the safety of others,
including family members and excluding the
abuser; and
(B) other components of economic security;
(2) identification of geographic areas with
shortages in resources for such survivors, with
an accompanying analysis of the extent and im-
pact of such shortage;
(3) analysis of factors related to industries,
workplace settings, employer practices, trends,
and other elements that impact the ability of
such survivors to exercise any rights under this
Act without compromising personal safety or the
safety of others, including family members;
(4) the recommendations of the Secretary of
Health and Human Services and the Secretary
of Labor with respect to resources, oversight,
and enforcement tools to ensure successful im-
plementation of the provisions of this Act in
order to support the economic security and safe-
ty of survivors of domestic violence, dating vio-
lence, sexual assault, or stalking; and
(5) best practices for States, employers, health
carriers, insurers, and other private entities in
addressing issues related to domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
SEC. 705. GAO STUDY.
Not later than 18 months after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Comptroller General of
the United States shall submit to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate a report that examines, with respect
to survivors of domestic violence, dating vio-
lence, sexual assault, or stalking who are, or
were, enrolled at institutions of higher edu-
cation and borrowed a loan made, insured, or
guaranteed under title IV of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.) for
which the survivors have not repaid the total
interest and principal due, each of the fol-
lowing:
(1) The implications of domestic violence, dat-
ing violence, sexual assault, or stalking on a
borrower’s ability to repay their Federal student
loans.
(2) The adequacy of policies and procedures
regarding Federal student loan deferment, for-
bearance, and grace periods when a survivor
has to suspend or terminate the survivor’s en-
rollment at an institution of higher education
due to domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, or stalking.
(3) The adequacy of institutional policies and
practices regarding retention or transfer of cred-
its when a survivor has to suspend or terminate
the survivor’s enrollment at an institution of
higher education due to domestic violence, dat-
ing violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
(4) The availability or any options for a sur-
vivor of domestic violence, dating violence, sex-
ual assault, or stalking who attended an insti-
tution of higher education that committed un-
fair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices, or
otherwise substantially misrepresented informa-
tion to students, to be able to seek a defense to
repayment of the survivor’s Federal student
loan.
(5) The limitations faced by a survivor of do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault,
or stalking to obtain any relief or restitution on
the survivor’s Federal student loan debt due to
the use of forced arbitration, gag orders, or bans
on class actions.
SEC. 706. EDUCATION AND INFORMATION PRO-
GRAMS FOR SURVIVORS.
(a) PUBLIC EDUCATION CAMPAIGN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Labor, in
conjunction with the Secretary of Health and
Human Services (through the Director of the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and
the grant recipient under section 41501 of the Vi-
olence Against Women Act of 1994 that estab-
lishes the national resource center on workplace
responses to assist victims of domestic and sex-
ual violence) and the Attorney General (through
the Principal Deputy Director of the Office on
Violence Against Women), shall coordinate and
provide for a national public outreach and edu-
cation campaign to raise public awareness of
the workplace impact of domestic violence, dat-
ing violence, sexual assault, and stalking, in-
cluding outreach and education for employers,
service providers, teachers, and other key part-
ners. This campaign shall pay special attention
to ensure that survivors are made aware of the
existence of the following types of workplace
laws (federal and/or State): anti-discrimination
laws that bar treating survivors differently;
leave laws, both paid and unpaid that are avail-
able for use by survivors; unemployment insur-
ance laws and policies that address survivor eli-
gibility.
(2) DISSEMINATION.—The Secretary of Labor,
in conjunction with the Secretary of Health and
Human Services and the Attorney General, as
described in paragraph (1), may disseminate in-
formation through the public outreach and edu-
cation campaign on the resources and rights re-
ferred to in this subsection directly or through
arrangements with health agencies, professional
and nonprofit organizations, consumer groups,
labor organizations, institutions of higher edu-
cation, clinics, the media, and Federal, State,
and local agencies.
(3) INFORMATION.—The information dissemi-
nated under paragraph (2) shall include, at a
minimum, a description of—
(A) the resources and rights that are—
(i) available to survivors of domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking; and
(ii) established in this Act and the Violence
Against Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C.12291 et
seq.);
(B) guidelines and best practices on preven-
tion of domestic violence, dating violence, stalk-
ing, and sexual assault;
(C) resources that promote healthy relation-
ships and communication skills;
(D) resources that encourage bystander inter-
vention in a situation involving domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, stalking, or sexual as-
sault;
(E) resources that promote workplace policies
that support and help maintain the economic se-
curity of survivors of domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, or stalking; and
(F) resources and rights that the heads of
Federal agencies described in paragraph (2) de-
termine are appropriate to include.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) EMPLOYEE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘employee’’ means
any individual employed by an employer. In the
case of an individual employed by a public
agency, such term means an individual em-
ployed as described in section 3(e)(2) of the Fair
Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C.
203(e)(2)).
(B) BASIS.—The term includes a person em-
ployed as described in subparagraph (A) on a
full- or part-time basis, for a fixed time period,
on a temporary basis, pursuant to a detail, or as
a participant in a work assignment as a condi-
tion of receipt of Federal or State income-based
public assistance.
(2) EMPLOYER.—The term ‘‘employer’’—
(A) means any person engaged in commerce or
in any industry or activity affecting commerce
who employs 15 or more individuals; and
(B) includes any person acting directly or in-
directly in the interest of an employer in rela-
tion to an employee, and includes a public agen-
cy that employs individuals as described in sec-
tion 3(e)(2) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938, but does not include any labor organiza-
tion (other than when acting as an employer) or
anyone acting in the capacity of officer or agent
of such labor organization.
(3) FLSA TERMS.—The terms ‘‘employ’’ and
‘‘State’’ have the meanings given the terms in
section 3 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of
1938 (29 U.S.C. 203).
(c) STUDY ON WORKPLACE RESPONSES.—The
Secretary of Labor, in conjunction with the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services, shall con-
duct a study on the status of workplace re-
sponses to employees who experience domestic
violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or
stalking while employed, in each State and na-
tionally, to improve the access of survivors of
domestic violence, dating violence, sexual as-
sault, or stalking to supportive resources and
economic security.
(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry
out this section, such sums as may be necessary
for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024.
SEC. 707. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this Act, any amendment
made by this Act, or the application of such pro-
vision or amendment to any person or cir-
cumstance is held to be unconstitutional, the re-
mainder of the provisions of this Act, the
amendments made by this Act, and the applica-
tion of such provisions or amendments to any
person or circumstance shall not be affected.
TITLE VIII—HOMICIDE REDUCTION
INITIATIVES
SEC. 801. PROHIBITING PERSONS CONVICTED OF
MISDEMEANOR CRIMES AGAINST
DATING PARTNERS AND PERSONS
SUBJECT TO PROTECTION ORDERS.
Section 921(a) of title 18, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in paragraph (32), by striking all that fol-
lows after ‘‘The term ‘intimate partner’ ’’ and
inserting the following: ‘‘—
‘‘(A) means, with respect to a person, the
spouse of the person, a former spouse of the per-
son, an individual who is a parent of a child of
the person, and an individual who cohabitates
or has cohabited with the person; and
‘‘(B) includes—
‘‘(i) a dating partner or former dating partner
(as defined in section 2266); and
‘‘(ii) any other person similarly situated to a
spouse who is protected by the domestic or fam-
ily violence laws of the State or tribal jurisdic-
tion in which the injury occurred or where the
victim resides.’’;
(2) in paragraph (33)(A)—
(A) in clause (i), by inserting after ‘‘Federal,
State,’’ the following: ‘‘municipal,’’; and
(B) in clause (ii), by inserting ‘‘intimate part-
ner,’’ after ‘‘spouse,’’ each place it appears;
(3) by redesignating paragraphs (34) and (35)
as paragraphs (35) and (36) respectively; and
(4) by inserting after paragraph (33) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(34)(A) The term ‘misdemeanor crime of
stalking’ means an offense that—
‘‘(i) is a misdemeanor crime of stalking under
Federal, State, Tribal, or municipal law; and
‘‘(ii) is a course of harassment, intimidation,
or surveillance of another person that—
‘‘(I) places that person in reasonable fear of
material harm to the health or safety of—
‘‘(aa) that person;
‘‘(bb) an immediate family member (as defined
in section 115) of that person;
‘‘(cc) a household member of that person; or
‘‘(dd) a spouse or intimate partner of that per-
son; or
‘‘(II) causes, attempts to cause, or would rea-
sonably be expected to cause emotional distress
to a person described in item (aa), (bb), (cc), or
(dd) of subclause (I).
‘‘(B) A person shall not be considered to have
been convicted of such an offense for purposes
of this chapter, unless—
‘‘(i) the person was represented by counsel in
the case, or knowingly and intelligently waived
the right to counsel in the case; and
‘‘(ii) in the case of a prosecution for an of-
fense described in this paragraph for which a
person was entitled to a jury trial in the juris-
diction in which the case was tried, either—
‘‘(I) the case was tried by a jury; or
‘‘(II) the person knowingly and intelligently
waived the right to have the case tried by a
jury, by guilty plea or otherwise.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.001 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3024 April 3, 2019
‘‘(C) A person shall not be considered to have
been convicted of such an offense for purposes
of this chapter if the conviction has been ex-
punged or set aside, or is an offense for which
the person has been pardoned or has had civil
rights restored (if the law of the applicable ju-
risdiction provides for the loss of civil rights
under such an offense) unless the pardon,
expungement, or restoration of civil rights ex-
pressly provides that the person may not ship,
transport, possess, or receive firearms.’’.
SEC. 802. PROHIBITING STALKERS AND INDIVID-
UALS SUBJECT TO COURT ORDER
FROM POSSESSING A FIREARM.
Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) in subsection (d)—
(A) in paragraph (8), by striking ‘‘that re-
strains such person’’ and all that follows, and
inserting ‘‘described in subsection (g)(8);’’;
(B) in paragraph (9), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’;
(C) by inserting after paragraph (9) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(10) who has been convicted in any court of
a misdemeanor crime of stalking.’’; and
(2) in subsection (g)—
(A) by amending paragraph (8) to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(8) who is subject to a court order—
‘‘(A) that was issued—
‘‘(i) after a hearing of which such person re-
ceived actual notice, and at which such person
had an opportunity to participate; or
‘‘(ii) in the case of an ex parte order, relative
to which notice and opportunity to be heard are
provided—
‘‘(I) within the time required by State, tribal,
or territorial law; and
‘‘(II) in any event within a reasonable time
after the order is issued, sufficient to protect the
due process rights of the person;
‘‘(B) that restrains such person from—
‘‘(i) harassing, stalking, or threatening an in-
timate partner of such person or child of such
intimate partner or person, or engaging in other
conduct that would place an intimate partner in
reasonable fear of bodily injury to the partner
or child; or
‘‘(ii) intimidating or dissuading a witness from
testifying in court; and
‘‘(C) that—
‘‘(i) includes a finding that such person rep-
resents a credible threat to the physical safety
of such individual described in subparagraph
(B); or
‘‘(ii) by its terms explicitly prohibits the use,
attempted use, or threatened use of physical
force against such individual described in sub-
paragraph (B) that would reasonably be ex-
pected to cause bodily injury;’’;
(B) in paragraph (9), by striking the comma at
the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(C) by inserting after paragraph (9) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(10) who has been convicted in any court of
a misdemeanor crime of stalking,’’.
TITLE IX—SAFETY FOR INDIAN WOMEN
SEC. 901. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the following:
(1) American Indians and Alaska Natives are
2.5 times as likely to experience violent crimes—
and at least 2 times more likely to experience
rape or sexual assault crimes—compared to all
other races.
(2) More than 4 in 5 American Indian and
Alaska Native women, or 84.3 percent, have ex-
perienced violence in their lifetime.
(3) The vast majority of Native victims—96%
of women and 89% of male victims—report being
victimized by a non-Indian.
(4) Native victims of sexual violence are three
times as likely to have experienced sexual vio-
lence by an interracial perpetrator as non-His-
panic White victims and Native stalking victims
are nearly 4 times as likely to be stalked by
someone of a different race.
(5) While tribes exercising jurisdiction over
non-Indians have reported significant successes,
the inability to prosecute crimes related to the
Special Domestic Violence Criminal Jurisdiction
crimes continues to leave Tribes unable to fully
hold domestic violence offenders accountable.
(6) Tribal prosecutors report that the majority
of domestic violence cases involve children ei-
ther as witnesses or victims, and Department of
Justice reports that American Indian and Alas-
ka Native children suffer exposure to violence at
rates higher than any other race in the United
States.
(7) Childhood exposure to violence has imme-
diate and long-term effects, including: increased
rates of altered neurological development, poor
physical and mental health, poor school per-
formance, substance abuse, and overrepresenta-
tion in the juvenile justice system.
(8) According to the Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention, homicide is the third lead-
ing cause of death among American Indian and
Alaska Native women between 10 and 24 years
of age and the fifth leading cause of death for
American Indian and Alaska Native women be-
tween 25 and 34 years of age.
(9) On some reservations, Indian women are
murdered at more than 10 times the national av-
erage.
(10) According to a 2010 Government Account-
ability Office report, United States Attorneys
declined to prosecute nearly 52 percent of vio-
lent crimes that occur in Indian country.
(11) Investigation into cases of missing and
murdered Indian women is made difficult for
tribal law enforcement agencies due to a lack of
resources, such as—
(A) necessary training, equipment, or funding;
(B) a lack of interagency cooperation; and
(C) a lack of appropriate laws in place.
(12) Domestic violence calls are among the
most dangerous calls that law enforcement re-
ceives.
(13) The complicated jurisdictional scheme
that exists in Indian country—
(A) has a significant negative impact on the
ability to provide public safety to Indian com-
munities;
(B) has been increasingly exploited by crimi-
nals; and
(C) requires a high degree of commitment and
cooperation among tribal, Federal, and State
law enforcement officials.
(14) Restoring and enhancing local, tribal ca-
pacity to address violence against women pro-
vides for greater local control, safety, account-
ability, and transparency.
(15) In States with restrictive land settlement
acts such as Alaska, ‘‘Indian country’’ is lim-
ited, resources for local tribal responses either
nonexistent or insufficient to meet the needs, ju-
risdiction unnecessarily complicated and in-
creases the already high levels of victimization
of American Indian and Alaska Native women.
According to the Tribal Law and Order Act
Commission Report, Alaska Native women are
over-represented in the domestic violence victim
population by 250 percent; they comprise 19 per-
cent of the State population, but are 47 percent
of reported rape victims. And among other In-
dian Tribes, Alaska Native women suffer the
highest rates of domestic and sexual violence in
the country.
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this title
are—
(1) to clarify the responsibilities of Federal,
State, tribal, and local governments with respect
to responding to cases of domestic violence, dat-
ing violence, stalking, trafficking, sexual vio-
lence, crimes against children, and assault
against tribal law enforcement officers and mur-
dered Indians;
(2) to increase coordination and communica-
tion among Federal, State, tribal, and local law
enforcement agencies; and
(3) to empower tribal governments with the re-
sources and information necessary to effectively
respond to cases of domestic violence, dating vi-
olence, stalking, sex trafficking, sexual violence,
and missing and murdered Indians; and
(4) to increase the collection of data related to
missing and murdered Indians and the sharing
of information among Federal, State, and tribal
officials responsible for responding to and inves-
tigating cases of missing and murdered Indians.
SEC. 902. AUTHORIZING FUNDING FOR THE TRIB-
AL ACCESS PROGRAM.
Section 534 of title 28, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated $3,000,000
for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024, to re-
main available until expended, for the purposes
of enhancing the ability of tribal government
entities to access, enter information into, and
obtain information from, Federal criminal infor-
mation databases, as authorized by this sec-
tion.’’.
SEC. 903. TRIBAL JURISDICTION OVER CRIMES OF
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING VIO-
LENCE, OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE,
SEXUAL VIOLENCE, SEX TRAF-
FICKING, STALKING, AND ASSAULT
OF A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
OR CORRECTIONS OFFICER.
Section 204 of Public Law 90–284 (25 U.S.C.
1304) (commonly known as the ‘‘Indian Civil
Rights Act of 1968’’) is amended—
(1) in the heading, by striking ‘‘CRIMES OF DO-
MESTIC VIOLENCE’’ and inserting ‘‘CRIMES OF
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING VIOLENCE, OB-
STRUCTION OF JUSTICE, SEXUAL VIOLENCE, SEX
TRAFFICKING, STALKING, AND ASSAULT OF A LAW
ENFORCEMENT OR CORRECTIONS OFFICER’’;
(2) in subsection (a)(6), in the heading, by
striking ‘‘SPECIAL DOMESTIC VIOLENCE CRIMINAL
JURISDICTION’’ and inserting ‘‘SPECIAL TRIBAL
CRIMINAL JURISDICTION’’;
(3) by striking ‘‘special domestic violence
criminal jurisdiction’’ each place such term ap-
pears and inserting ‘‘special tribal criminal ju-
risdiction’’;
(4) in subsection (a)—
(A) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(12) STALKING.—The term ‘stalking’ means
engaging in a course of conduct directed at a
specific person proscribed by the criminal law of
the Indian tribe that has jurisdiction over the
Indian country where the violation occurs that
would cause a reasonable person to—
‘‘(A) fear for the person’s safety or the safety
of others; or
‘‘(B) suffer substantial emotional distress.’’;
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (6) and (7) as
paragraphs (10) and (11);
(C) by inserting before paragraph (10) (as re-
designated) the following:
‘‘(8) SEX TRAFFICKING.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘sex trafficking’
means conduct—
‘‘(i) consisting of—
‘‘(I) recruiting, enticing, harboring, trans-
porting, providing, obtaining, advertising, main-
taining, patronizing, or soliciting by any means
a person; or
‘‘(II) benefitting, financially or by receiving
anything of value, from participation in a ven-
ture that has engaged in an act described in
subclause (I); and
‘‘(ii) carried out with the knowledge, or, ex-
cept where the act constituting the violation of
clause (i) is advertising, in reckless disregard of
the fact, that—
‘‘(I) means of force, threats of force, fraud, co-
ercion, or any combination of such means will
be used to cause the person to engage in a com-
mercial sex act; or
‘‘(II) the person has not attained the age of 18
years and will be caused to engage in a commer-
cial sex act.
‘‘(B) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph, the
terms ‘coercion’ and ‘commercial sex act’ have
the meanings given the terms in section 1591(e)
of title 18, United States Code.
‘‘(9) SEXUAL VIOLENCE.—The term ‘sexual vio-
lence’ means any nonconsensual sexual act or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.001 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3025
April 3, 2019
contact proscribed by the criminal law of the In-
dian tribe that has jurisdiction over the Indian
country where the violation occurs, including in
any case in which the victim lacks the capacity
to consent to the act.’’;
(D) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as
paragraphs (6) and (7);
(E) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through
(3) as paragraphs (2) through (4);
(F) in paragraph (3) (as redesignated), to read
as follows:
‘‘(3) DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.—The term ‘domestic
violence’ means violence—
‘‘(A) committed by a current or former spouse
or intimate partner of the victim, by a person
with whom the victim shares a child in common,
by a person who is cohabitating with or has
cohabitated with the victim as a spouse or inti-
mate partner, or by a person similarly situated
to a spouse of the victim under the domestic- or
family- violence laws of an Indian tribe that has
jurisdiction over the Indian country where the
violence occurs; or
‘‘(B) committed against a victim who is a child
under the age of 18, or an elder (as such term is
defined by tribal law) who resides or has resided
in the same household as the defendant.’’;
(G) by inserting before paragraph (2) (as re-
designated), the following:
‘‘(1) ASSAULT OF A LAW ENFORCEMENT OR COR-
RECTIONAL OFFICER.—The term ‘assault of a law
enforcement or correctional officer’ means any
criminal violation of the law of the Indian tribe
that has jurisdiction over the Indian country
where the violation occurs that involves the
threatened, attempted, or actual harmful or of-
fensive touching of a law enforcement or correc-
tional officer.’’;
(H) by inserting after paragraph (4) (as redes-
ignated), the following:
‘‘(5) OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE.—The term ‘ob-
struction of justice’ means any violation of the
criminal law of the Indian tribe that has juris-
diction over the Indian country where the viola-
tion occurs, and the violation involves inter-
fering with the administration or due process of
the tribe’s laws including any tribal criminal
proceeding or investigation of a crime.’’;
(5) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting after ‘‘the
powers of self-government of a participating
tribe’’ the following: ‘‘, including any partici-
pating tribes in the State of Maine,’’
(6) in subsection (b)(4)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)(i), by inserting after
‘‘over an alleged offense’’ the following: ‘‘, other
than obstruction of justice or an act of assault
of a law enforcement or corrections officer,’’;
and
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end;
(ii) in clause (iii)(II), by striking the period at
the end and inserting the following: ‘‘; or’’; and
(iii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(iv) is being prosecuted for a crime of sexual
violence, stalking, sex trafficking, obstructing
justice, or assaulting a police or corrections offi-
cer under the laws of the prosecuting tribe.’’;
(7) in subsection (c)—
(A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by
striking ‘‘domestic violence’’ and inserting ‘‘trib-
al’’; and
(B) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in the paragraph heading, by striking
‘‘AND DATING VIOLENCE’’ and inserting ‘‘, DAT-
ING VIOLENCE, OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE, SEXUAL
VIOLENCE, STALKING, SEX TRAFFICKING, OR AS-
SAULT OF A LAW ENFORCEMENT OR CORRECTIONS
OFFICER’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘or dating violence’’ and in-
serting ‘‘, dating violence, obstruction of justice,
sexual violence, stalking, sex trafficking, or as-
sault of a law enforcement or corrections offi-
cer’’;
(8) in subsection (d), by striking ‘‘domestic vi-
olence’’ each place it appears and inserting
‘‘tribal’’;
(9) in subsection (f)—
(A) by striking ‘‘special domestic violence’’
each place it appears and inserting ‘‘special
tribal’’;
(B) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘prosecutes’’
and all that follows through the semicolon at
the end and inserting the following: ‘‘pros-
ecutes—
‘‘(A) a crime of domestic violence;
‘‘(B) a crime of dating violence;
‘‘(C) a criminal violation of a protection order;
‘‘(D) a crime of sexual violence;
‘‘(E) a crime of stalking;
‘‘(F) a crime of sex trafficking;
‘‘(G) a crime of obstruction of justice; or
‘‘(H) a crime of assault of a law enforcement
or correctional officer;’’;
(C) in paragraph (4), by inserting ‘‘sexual vio-
lence, stalking, sex trafficking, obstruction of
justice, assault of a law enforcement or correc-
tional officer,’’ after ‘‘dating violence,’’; and
(D) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(5) to create a pilot project to allow up to
five Indian tribes in Alaska to implement special
tribal criminal jurisdiction.’’;
(10) by redesignating subsections (g) and (h)
as subsections (h) and (i), respectively;
(11) by inserting after subsection (f) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(g) INDIAN COUNTRY DEFINED.—For purposes
of the pilot project described in subsection (f)(5),
the definition of ‘Indian country’ shall include
Alaska Native-owned Townsites, Allotments,
and former reservation lands acquired in fee by
Alaska Native Village Corporations pursuant to
the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43
U.S.C. 33) and other lands transferred in fee to
Native villages.’’.
(12) in subsection (i) (as redesignated) by
striking ‘‘fiscal years 2014 through 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘fiscal years 2020 through 2024’’.
SEC. 904. ANNUAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
Beginning in the first fiscal year after the
date of enactment of this title, and annually
thereafter, the Attorney General and the Sec-
retary of the Interior shall jointly prepare and
submit a report, to the Committee on Indian Af-
fairs and the Committee on the Judiciary of the
Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources
and the Committee on the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives, that—
(1) includes known statistics on missing and
murdered Indian women in the United States,
including statistics relating to incidents of sex-
ual abuse or sexual assault suffered by the vic-
tims; and
(2) provides recommendations regarding how
to improve data collection on missing and mur-
dered Indian women.
TITLE X—OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST
WOMEN
SEC. 1001. ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE ON VIO-
LENCE AGAINST WOMEN.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE ON VIOLENCE
AGAINST WOMEN.—Section 2002 of title I of the
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of
1968 (34 U.S.C. 10442) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘a Violence
Against Women Office’’ and inserting ‘‘an Of-
fice on Violence Against Women’’;
(2) in subsection (b), by inserting after ‘‘with-
in the Department of Justice’’ the following: ‘‘,
not subsumed by any other office’’;
(3) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ‘‘Violence
Against Women Act of 1994 (title VI of Public
103–322) and the Violence Against Women Act of
2000 (Division B of Public Law 106–386)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Violence Against Women Act of 1994
(title VI1 of Public 103–322), the Violence
Against Women Act of 2000 (Division B of Public
Law 106–386), the Violence Against Women and
Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of
2005 (title IX of Public Law 109–162; 119 Stat.
3080), the Violence Against Women Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2013 (Public Law 113–4; 127 Stat. 54),
and the Violence Against Women Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2019’’.
(b) DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE ON VIOLENCE
AGAINST WOMEN.—Section 2003 of the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34
U.S.C. 10443) is amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 2003. DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE ON VIO-
LENCE AGAINST WOMEN.
‘‘(a) APPOINTMENT.—The President, by and
with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall
appoint a Director for the Office on Violence
Against Women (in this title referred to as the
‘Director’) to be responsible, under the general
authority of the Attorney General, for the ad-
ministration, coordination, and implementation
of the programs and activities of the Office.
‘‘(b) OTHER EMPLOYMENT.—The Director shall
not—
‘‘(1) engage in any employment other than
that of serving as Director; or
‘‘(2) hold any office in, or act in any capacity
for, any organization, agency, or institution
with which the Office makes any contract or
other agreement under the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994 (title IV of Public Law 103–
322), the Violence Against Women Act of 2000
(division B of Public Law 106–386), the Violence
Against Women and Department of Justice Re-
authorization Act of 2005 (title IX of Public Law
109–162; 119 Stat. 3080), the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law
113–4; 127 Stat. 54), or the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2019.
‘‘(c) VACANCY.—In the case of a vacancy, the
President may designate an officer or employee
who shall act as Director during the vacancy.
‘‘(d) COMPENSATION.—The Director shall be
compensated at a rate of pay not to exceed the
rate payable for level V of the Executive Sched-
ule under section 5316 of title 5, United States
Code.’’.
(c) DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF DIRECTOR OF
THE OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN.—
Section 2004 of the Omnibus Crime Control and
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10444) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 2004. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF DIREC-
TOR OF THE OFFICE ON VIOLENCE
AGAINST WOMEN.
‘‘The Director shall have the following duties:
‘‘(1) Maintaining liaison with the judicial
branches of the Federal and State Governments
on matters relating to violence against women.
‘‘(2) Providing information to the President,
the Congress, the judiciary, State, local, and
tribal governments, and the general public on
matters relating to violence against women.
‘‘(3) Serving, at the request of the Attorney
General, as the representative of the Depart-
ment of Justice on domestic task forces, commit-
tees, or commissions addressing policy or issues
relating to violence against women.
‘‘(4) Serving, at the request of the President,
acting through the Attorney General, as the
representative of the United States Government
on human rights and economic justice matters
related to violence against women in inter-
national fora, including, but not limited to, the
United Nations.
‘‘(5) Carrying out the functions of the Depart-
ment of Justice under the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994 (title IV of Public Law 103–
322), the Violence Against Women Act of 2000
(division B of Public Law 106–386), the Violence
Against Women and Department of Justice Re-
authorization Act of 2005 (title IX of Public Law
109–162; 119 Stat. 3080), the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law
113–4; 127 Stat. 54), and the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2019, including
with respect to those functions—
‘‘(A) the development of policy, protocols, and
guidelines;
‘‘(B) the development and management of
grant programs and other programs, and the
provision of technical assistance under such
programs; and
‘‘(C) the awarding and termination of grants,
cooperative agreements, and contracts.
‘‘(6) Providing technical assistance, coordina-
tion, and support to—
‘‘(A) other components of the Department of
Justice, in efforts to develop policy and to en-
force Federal laws relating to violence against
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.001 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3026 April 3, 2019
women, including the litigation of civil and
criminal actions relating to enforcing such laws;
‘‘(B) other Federal, State, local, and tribal
agencies, in efforts to develop policy, provide
technical assistance, synchronize federal defini-
tions and protocols, and improve coordination
among agencies carrying out efforts to eliminate
violence against women, including Indian or in-
digenous women; and
‘‘(C) grantees, in efforts to combat violence
against women and to provide support and as-
sistance to victims of such violence.
‘‘(7) Exercising such other powers and func-
tions as may be vested in the Director pursuant
to this subchapter or by delegation of the Attor-
ney General.
‘‘(8) Establishing such rules, regulations,
guidelines, and procedures as are necessary to
carry out any function of the Office.’’.
(d) STAFF OF OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST
WOMEN.—Section 2005 of the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C.
10445) is amended in the heading, by striking
‘‘VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN OFFICE’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘OFFICE ON VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN’’.
(e) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—Section 121(a)(1)
of the Violence Against Women and Department
of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (34 U.S.C.
20124(a)(1)) is amended by striking ‘‘the Vio-
lence Against Women Office’’ and inserting ‘‘the
Office on Violence Against Women’’.
TITLE XI—IMPROVING CONDITIONS FOR
WOMEN IN FEDERAL CUSTODY
SEC. 1101. IMPROVING THE TREATMENT OF PRI-
MARY CARETAKER PARENTS AND
OTHER INDIVIDUALS IN FEDERAL
PRISONS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be cited
as the ‘‘Ramona Brant Improvement of Condi-
tions for Women in Federal Custody Act’’.
(b) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 303 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘§ 4051. Treatment of primary caretaker par-
ents and other individuals
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
‘‘(1) the term ‘correctional officer’ means a
correctional officer of the Bureau of Prisons;
‘‘(2) the term ‘covered institution’ means a
Federal penal or correctional institution;
‘‘(3) the term ‘Director’ means the Director of
the Bureau of Prisons;
‘‘(4) the term ‘post-partum recovery’ means
the first 8-week period of post-partum recovery
after giving birth;
‘‘(5) the term ‘primary caretaker parent’ has
the meaning given the term in section 31903 of
the Family Unity Demonstration Project Act (34
U.S.C. 12242);
‘‘(6) the term ‘prisoner’ means an individual
who is incarcerated in a Federal penal or cor-
rectional institution, including a vulnerable per-
son; and
‘‘(7) the term ‘vulnerable person’ means an in-
dividual who—
‘‘(A) is under 21 years of age or over 60 years
of age;
‘‘(B) is pregnant;
‘‘(C) identifies as lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender, or intersex;
‘‘(D) is victim or witness of a crime;
‘‘(E) has filed a nonfrivolous civil rights claim
in Federal or State court;
‘‘(F) has a serious mental or physical illness
or disability; or
‘‘(G) during the period of incarceration, has
been determined to have experienced or to be ex-
periencing severe trauma or to be the victim of
gender-based violence—
‘‘(i) by any court or administrative judicial
proceeding;
‘‘(ii) by any corrections official;
‘‘(iii) by the individual’s attorney or legal
service provider; or
‘‘(iv) by the individual.
‘‘(b) GEOGRAPHIC PLACEMENT.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE.—The Director
shall establish within the Bureau of Prisons an
office that determines the placement of pris-
oners.
‘‘(2) PLACEMENT OF PRISONERS.—In deter-
mining the placement of a prisoner, the office
established under paragraph (1) shall—
‘‘(A) if the prisoner has children, place the
prisoner as close to the children as possible;
‘‘(B) in deciding whether to assign a
transgender or intersex prisoner to a facility for
male or female prisoners, and in making other
housing and programming assignments, consider
on a case-by-case basis whether a placement
would ensure the prisoner’s health and safety,
including serious consideration of the prisoner’s
own views with respect to their safety, and
whether the placement would present manage-
ment or security problems; and
‘‘(C) consider any other factor that the office
determines to be appropriate.
‘‘(c) PROHIBITION ON PLACEMENT OF PREG-
NANT PRISONERS OR PRISONERS IN POST-PARTUM
RECOVERY IN SEGREGATED HOUSING UNITS.—
‘‘(1) PLACEMENT IN SEGREGATED HOUSING
UNITS.—A covered institution may not place a
prisoner who is pregnant or in post-partum re-
covery in a segregated housing unit unless the
prisoner presents an immediate risk of harm to
the prisoner or others.
‘‘(2) RESTRICTIONS.—Any placement of a pris-
oner described in subparagraph (A) in a seg-
regated housing unit shall be limited and tem-
porary.
‘‘(d) PARENTING CLASSES.—The Director shall
provide parenting classes to each prisoner who
is a primary caretaker parent.
‘‘(e) TRAUMA SCREENING.—The Director shall
provide training to each correctional officer and
each employee of the Bureau of Prisons who
regularly interacts with prisoners, including
each instructor and health care professional, to
enable those correctional officers and employees
to—
‘‘(1) identify a prisoner who has a mental or
physical health need relating to trauma the
prisoner has experienced; and
‘‘(2) refer a prisoner described in paragraph
(1) to the proper healthcare professional for
treatment.
‘‘(f) INMATE HEALTH.—
‘‘(1) HEALTH CARE ACCESS.—The Director shall
ensure that all prisoners receive adequate
health care.
‘‘(2) HYGIENIC PRODUCTS.—The Director shall
make essential hygienic products, including
shampoo, toothpaste, toothbrushes, and any
other hygienic product that the Director deter-
mines appropriate, available without charge to
prisoners.
‘‘(3) GYNECOLOGIST ACCESS.—The Director
shall ensure that all prisoners have access to a
gynecologist as appropriate.
‘‘(g) USE OF SEX-APPROPRIATE CORRECTIONAL
OFFICERS.—
‘‘(1) REGULATIONS.—The Director shall make
rules under which—
‘‘(A) a correctional officer may not conduct a
strip search of a prisoner of the opposite sex un-
less—
‘‘(i) the prisoner presents a risk of immediate
harm to the prisoner or others, and no other
correctional officer of the same sex as the pris-
oner, or medical staff is available to assist; or
‘‘(ii) the prisoner has previously requested
that an officer of a different sex conduct
searches;
‘‘(B) a correctional officer may not enter a
restroom reserved for prisoners of the opposite
sex unless—
‘‘(i) a prisoner in the restroom presents a risk
of immediate harm to themselves or others; or
‘‘(ii) there is a medical emergency in the rest-
room and no other correctional officer of the ap-
propriate sex is available to assist;
‘‘(C) a transgender prisoner’s sex is deter-
mined according to the sex with which they
identify; and
‘‘(D) a correctional officer may not search or
physically examine a prisoner for the sole pur-
pose of determining the prisoner’s genital status
or sex.
‘‘(2) RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.—Nothing in
paragraph (1) shall be construed to affect the
requirements under the Prison Rape Elimination
Act of 2003 (42 U.S.C. 15601 et seq.).’’.
(c) SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT.—Section
3621(e) of title 18, United States Code, is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(7) ELIGIBILITY OF PRIMARY CARETAKER PAR-
ENTS AND PREGNANT WOMEN.—The Director of
the Bureau of Prisons may not prohibit an eligi-
ble prisoner who is a primary caretaker parent
(as defined in section 4051) or pregnant from
participating in a program of residential sub-
stance abuse treatment provided under para-
graph (1) on the basis of a failure by the eligible
prisoner, before being committed to the custody
of the Bureau of Prisons, to disclose to any offi-
cial of the Bureau of Prisons that the prisoner
had a substance abuse problem on or before the
date on which the eligible prisoner was com-
mitted to the custody of the Bureau of Pris-
ons.’’.
(d) IMPLEMENTATION DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Director
of the Bureau of Prisons shall implement this
section and the amendments made by this sec-
tion.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Director of
the Bureau of Prisons shall submit to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the
Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Rep-
resentatives a report on the implementation of
this section and the amendments made by this
section.
(e) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENT.—The table of sections for chapter 303 of
title 18, United States Code, is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘4051. Treatment of primary caretaker parents
and other individuals.’’.
SEC. 1102. PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY OF
WOMEN.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be cited
as the ‘‘Stop Infant Mortality And Recidivism
Reduction Act’’ or the ‘‘SIMARRA Act’’.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 270 days
after the date of the enactment of this section,
the Director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons
(in this section referred to as the ‘‘Director’’)
shall establish a pilot program (in this section
referred to as the ‘‘Program’’) in accordance
with this section to permit women incarcerated
in Federal prisons and the children born to such
women during incarceration to reside together
while the inmate serves a term of imprisonment
in a separate housing wing of the prison.
(c) PURPOSES.—The purposes of this section
are to—
(1) prevent infant mortality among infants
born to incarcerated mothers and greatly reduce
the trauma and stress experienced by the un-
born fetuses of pregnant inmates;
(2) reduce the recidivism rates of federally in-
carcerated women and mothers, and enhance
public safety by improving the effectiveness of
the Federal prison system for women as a popu-
lation with special needs;
(3) establish female offender risk and needs
assessment as the cornerstones of a more effec-
tive and efficient Federal prison system;
(4) implement a validated post-sentencing risk
and needs assessment system that relies on dy-
namic risk factors to provide Federal prison offi-
cials with a roadmap to address the pre- and
post-natal needs of Federal pregnant offenders,
manage limited resources, and enhance public
safety;
(5) perform regular outcome evaluations of the
effectiveness of programs and interventions for
federally incarcerated pregnant women and
mothers to assure that such programs and inter-
ventions are evidence-based and to suggest
changes, deletions, and expansions based on the
results of such evaluations; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.001 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3027
April 3, 2019
(6) assist the Department of Justice to address
the underlying cost structure of the Federal
prison system and ensure that the Department
can continue to run prison nurseries safely and
securely without compromising the scope or
quality of the Department’s critical health, safe-
ty and law enforcement missions.
(d) DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF BUREAU OF
PRISONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall carry out
this section in consultation with—
(A) a licensed and board-certified gynecologist
or obstetrician;
(B) the Director of the Administrative Office
of the United States Courts;
(C) the Director of the Office of Probation and
Pretrial Services;
(D) the Director of the National Institute of
Justice; and
(E) the Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices.
(2) DUTIES.—The Director shall, in accordance
with paragraph (3)—
(A) develop an offender risk and needs assess-
ment system particular to the health and sen-
sitivities of Federally incarcerated pregnant
women and mothers in accordance with this
subsection;
(B) develop recommendations regarding recidi-
vism reduction programs and productive activi-
ties in accordance with subsection (c);
(C) conduct ongoing research and data anal-
ysis on—
(i) the best practices relating to the use of of-
fender risk and needs assessment tools par-
ticular to the health and sensitivities of feder-
ally incarcerated pregnant women and mothers;
(ii) the best available risk and needs assess-
ment tools particular to the health and sensitivi-
ties of Federally incarcerated pregnant women
and mothers and the level to which they rely on
dynamic risk factors that could be addressed
and changed over time, and on measures of risk
of recidivism, individual needs, and responsive-
ness to recidivism reduction programs;
(iii) the most effective and efficient uses of
such tools in conjunction with recidivism reduc-
tion programs, productive activities, incentives,
and rewards; and
(iv) which recidivism reduction programs are
the most effective—
(I) for Federally incarcerated pregnant women
and mothers classified at different recidivism
risk levels; and
(II) for addressing the specific needs of Feder-
ally incarcerated pregnant women and mothers;
(D) on a biennial basis, review the system de-
veloped under subparagraph (A) and the rec-
ommendations developed under subparagraph
(B), using the research conducted under sub-
paragraph (C), to determine whether any revi-
sions or updates should be made, and if so,
make such revisions or updates;
(E) hold periodic meetings with the individ-
uals listed in paragraph (1) at intervals to be de-
termined by the Director; and
(F) report to Congress in accordance with sub-
section (i).
(3) METHODS.—In carrying out the duties
under paragraph (2), the Director shall—
(A) consult relevant stakeholders; and
(B) make decisions using data that is based on
the best available statistical and empirical evi-
dence.
(e) ELIGIBILITY.—An inmate may apply to
participate in the Program if the inmate—
(1) is pregnant at the beginning of or during
the term of imprisonment; and
(2) is in the custody or control of the Federal
Bureau of Prisons.
(f) PROGRAM TERMS.—
(1) TERM OF PARTICIPATION.—To correspond
with the purposes and goals of the Program to
promote bonding during the critical stages of
child development, an eligible inmate selected
for the Program may participate in the Program,
subject to subsection (g), until the earliest of—
(A) the date that the inmate’s term of impris-
onment terminates;
(B) the date the infant fails to meet any med-
ical criteria established by the Director or the
Director’s designee along with a collective deter-
mination of the persons listed in subsection
(d)(1); or
(C) 30 months.
(2) INMATE REQUIREMENTS.—For the duration
of an inmate’s participation in the Program, the
inmate shall agree to—
(A) take substantive steps towards acting in
the role of a parent or guardian to any child of
that inmate;
(B) participate in any educational or coun-
seling opportunities established by the Director,
including topics such as child development, par-
enting skills, domestic violence, vocational
training, or substance abuse, as appropriate;
(C) abide by any court decision regarding the
legal or physical custody of the child;
(D) transfer to the Federal Bureau of Prisons
any child support payments for the infant of the
participating inmate from any person or govern-
mental entity; and
(E) specify a person who has agreed to take at
least temporary custody of the child if the in-
mate’s participation in the Program terminates
before the inmate’s release.
(g) CONTINUITY OF CARE.—The Director shall
take appropriate actions to prevent detachment
or disruption of either an inmate’s or infant’s
health and bonding-based well-being due to ter-
mination of the Program.
(h) REPORTING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 6 months
after the date of the enactment of this section
and once each year thereafter for 5 years, the
Director shall submit a report to the Congress
with regards to progress in implementing the
Program.
(2) FINAL REPORT.—Not later than 6 months
after the termination of the Program, the Direc-
tor shall issue a final report to the Congress
that contains a detailed statement of the Direc-
tor’s findings and conclusions, including rec-
ommendations for legislation, administrative ac-
tions, and regulations the Director considers ap-
propriate.
(i) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—To
carry out this section, there is authorized to be
appropriated $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024.
TITLE XII—LAW ENFORCEMENT TOOLS TO
ENHANCE PUBLIC SAFETY
SEC. 1201. NOTIFICATION TO LAW ENFORCEMENT
AGENCIES OF PROHIBITED PUR-
CHASE OR ATTEMPTED PURCHASE
OF A FIREARM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title I of the NICS Improve-
ment Amendments Act of 2007 (18 U.S.C. 922
note) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 108. NOTIFICATION TO LAW ENFORCEMENT
AGENCIES OF PROHIBITED PUR-
CHASE OF A FIREARM.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a back-
ground check conducted by the National Instant
Criminal Background Check System pursuant to
the request of a licensed importer, licensed man-
ufacturer, or licensed dealer of firearms (as such
terms are defined in section 921 of title 18,
United States Code), which background check
determines that the receipt of a firearm by a
person would violate subsection (g)(8), (g)(9), or
(g)(10) of section 922 of title 18, United States
Code, and such determination is made after 3
business days have elapsed since the licensee
contacted the System and a firearm has been
transferred to that person, the System shall no-
tify the law enforcement agencies described in
subsection (b).
‘‘(b) LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES DE-
SCRIBED.—The law enforcement agencies de-
scribed in this subsection are the law enforce-
ment agencies that have jurisdiction over the lo-
cation from which the licensee contacted the
system and the law enforcement agencies that
have jurisdiction over the location of the resi-
dence of the person for which the background
check was conducted, as follows:
‘‘(1) The field office of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.
‘‘(2) The local law enforcement agency.
‘‘(3) The State law enforcement agency.
‘‘(4) The Tribal law enforcement agency.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of con-
tents of the NICS Improvement Amendments Act
of 2007 (18 10 U.S.C. 922 note) is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section 107 the
following:
‘‘Sec. 108. Notification to law enforcement
agencies of prohibited purchase of
a firearm.’’.
SEC. 1202. REPORTING OF BACKGROUND CHECK
DENIALS TO STATE, LOCAL, AND
TRIBAL AUTHORITIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 44 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 925A the following:
‘‘§ 925B. Reporting of background check deni-
als to State, local, and tribal authorities
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—If the national instant
criminal background check system established
under section 103 of the Brady Handgun Vio-
lence Prevention Act (18 U.S.C. 922 note) pro-
vides a notice pursuant to section 922(t) of this
title that the receipt of a firearm by a person
would violate subsection (g)(8), (g)(9), or (g)(10)
of section 922 of this title or State law, the At-
torney General shall, in accordance with sub-
section (b) of this section—
‘‘(1) report to the law enforcement authorities
of the State where the person sought to acquire
the firearm and, if different, the law enforce-
ment authorities of the State of residence of the
person—
‘‘(A) that the notice was provided;
‘‘(B) of the specific provision of law that
would have been violated;
‘‘(C) of the date and time the notice was pro-
vided;
‘‘(D) of the location where the firearm was
sought to be acquired; and
‘‘(E) of the identity of the person; and
‘‘(2) report the incident to local or tribal law
enforcement authorities and, where practicable,
State, tribal, or local prosecutors, in the juris-
diction where the firearm was sought and in the
jurisdiction where the person resides.
‘‘(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR REPORT.—A report is
made in accordance with this subsection if the
report is made within 24 hours after the provi-
sion of the notice described in subsection (a), ex-
cept that the making of the report may be de-
layed for so long as is necessary to avoid com-
promising an ongoing investigation.
‘‘(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
subsection (a) shall be construed to require a re-
port with respect to a person to be made to the
same State authorities that originally issued the
notice with respect to the person.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sec-
tions for such chapter is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 925A the fol-
lowing:
‘‘925B. Reporting of background check denials
to State, local, and tribal authori-
ties.’’.
SEC. 1203. SPECIAL ASSISTANT U.S. ATTORNEYS
AND CROSS-DEPUTIZED ATTORNEYS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 44 of title 18,
United States Code, as amended by this Act, is
further amended by inserting after section 925B
the following:
‘‘§ 925C. Special assistant U.S. attorneys and
cross-deputized attorneys
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—In order to improve the en-
forcement of paragraphs (8), (9), and (10) of sec-
tion 922(g), the Attorney General may—
‘‘(1) appoint, in accordance with section 543
of title 28, qualified State, tribal, territorial and
local prosecutors and qualified attorneys work-
ing for the United States government to serve as
special assistant United States attorneys for the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.001 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3028 April 3, 2019
purpose of prosecuting violations of such para-
graphs;
‘‘(2) deputize State, tribal, territorial and local
law enforcement officers for the purpose of en-
hancing the capacity of the agents of the Bu-
reau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explo-
sives in responding to and investigating viola-
tions of such paragraphs; and
‘‘(3) establish, in order to receive and expedite
requests for assistance from State, tribal, terri-
torial and local law enforcement agencies re-
sponding to intimate partner violence cases
where such agencies have probable cause to be-
lieve that the offenders may be in violation of
such paragraphs, points of contact within—
‘‘(A) each Field Division of the Bureau of Al-
cohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives; and
‘‘(B) each District Office of the United States
Attorneys.
‘‘(b) IMPROVE INTIMATE PARTNER AND PUBLIC
SAFETY.—The Attorney General shall—
‘‘(1) identify no less than 75 jurisdictions
among States, territories and tribes where there
are high rates of firearms violence and threats
of firearms violence against intimate partners
and other persons protected under paragraphs
(8), (9), and (10) of section 922(g) and where
local authorities lack the resources to address
such violence; and
‘‘(2) make such appointments as described in
subsection (a) in jurisdictions where enhanced
enforcement of such paragraphs is necessary to
reduce firearms homicide and injury rates.
‘‘(c) QUALIFIED DEFINED.—For purposes of
this section, the term ‘qualified’ means, with re-
spect to an attorney, that the attorney is a li-
censed attorney in good standing with any rel-
evant licensing authority.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sec-
tions for such chapter is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 925B the fol-
lowing:
‘‘925C. Special assistant U.S. attorneys and
cross-deputized attorneys.’’.
TITLE XIII—CLOSING THE LAW
ENFORCEMENT CONSENT LOOPHOLE
SEC. 1301. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Closing the
Law Enforcement Consent Loophole Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 1302. PROHIBITION ON ENGAGING IN SEX-
UAL ACTS WHILE ACTING UNDER
COLOR OF LAW.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 2243 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in the section heading, by adding at the
end the following: ‘‘or by any person acting
under color of law’’;
(2) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as
subsections (d) and (e), respectively;
(3) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(c) OF AN INDIVIDUAL BY ANY PERSON ACT-
ING UNDER COLOR OF LAW.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Whoever, acting under
color of law, knowingly engages in a sexual act
with an individual, including an individual who
is under arrest, in detention, or otherwise in the
actual custody of any Federal law enforcement
officer, shall be fined under this title, impris-
oned not more than 15 years, or both.
‘‘(2) DEFINITION.—In this subsection, the term
‘sexual act’ has the meaning given the term in
section 2246.’’; and
(4) in subsection (d), as so redesignated, by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) In a prosecution under subsection (c), it
is not a defense that the other individual con-
sented to the sexual act.’’.
(b) DEFINITION.—Section 2246 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (5), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the
end;
(2) in paragraph (6), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by inserting after paragraph (6) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(7) the term ‘Federal law enforcement officer’
has the meaning given the term in section 115.’’.
(c) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of sec-
tions for chapter 109A of title 18, United States
Code, is amended by amending the item related
to section 2243 to read as follows:
‘‘2243. Sexual abuse of a minor or ward or by
any person acting under color of
law.’’.
SEC. 1303. INCENTIVES FOR STATES.
(a) AUTHORITY TO MAKE GRANTS.—The Attor-
ney General is authorized to make grants to
States that have in effect a law that—
(1) makes it a criminal offense for any person
acting under color of law of the State to engage
in a sexual act with an individual, including an
individual who is under arrest, in detention, or
otherwise in the actual custody of any law en-
forcement officer; and
(2) prohibits a person charged with an offense
described in paragraph (1) from asserting the
consent of the other individual as a defense.
(b) REPORTING REQUIREMENT.—A State that
receives a grant under this section shall submit
to the Attorney General, on an annual basis, in-
formation on—
(1) the number of reports made to law enforce-
ment agencies in that State regarding persons
engaging in a sexual act while acting under
color of law during the previous year; and
(2) the disposition of each case in which sex-
ual misconduct by a person acting under color
of law was reported during the previous year.
(c) APPLICATION.—A State seeking a grant
under this section shall submit an application to
the Attorney General at such time, in such man-
ner, and containing such information as the At-
torney General may reasonably require, includ-
ing information about the law described in sub-
section (a).
(d) GRANT AMOUNT.—The amount of a grant
to a State under this section shall be in an
amount that is not greater than 10 percent of
the average of the total amount of funding of
the 3 most recent awards that the State received
under the following grant programs:
(1) Part T of title I of the Omnibus Crime Con-
trol and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34 U.S.C. 10441
et seq.) (commonly referred to as the ‘‘STOP Vi-
olence Against Women Formula Grant Pro-
gram’’).
(2) Section 41601 of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12511) (commonly
referred to as the ‘‘Sexual Assault Services Pro-
gram’’).
(e) GRANT TERM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General shall
provide an increase in the amount provided to a
State under the grant programs described in
subsection (d) for a 2-year period.
(2) RENEWAL.—A State that receives a grant
under this section may submit an application
for a renewal of such grant at such time, in
such manner, and containing such information
as the Attorney General may reasonably re-
quire.
(3) LIMIT.—A State may not receive a grant
under this section for more than 4 years.
(f) USES OF FUNDS.—A State that receives a
grant under this section shall use—
(1) 25 percent of such funds for any of the
permissible uses of funds under the grant pro-
gram described in paragraph (1) of subsection
(d); and
(2) 75 percent of such funds for any of the
permissible uses of funds under the grant pro-
gram described in paragraph (2) of subsection
(d).
(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to carry
out this chapter $5,000,000 for each of fiscal
years 2020 through 2024.
(h) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this section,
the term ‘‘State’’ means each of the several
States and the District of Columbia, Indian
Tribes, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,
Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and
the Northern Mariana Islands.
SEC. 1304. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
(a) REPORT BY ATTORNEY GENERAL.—Not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of this
Act, and each year thereafter, the Attorney
General shall submit to Congress a report con-
taining—
(1) the information required to be reported to
the Attorney General under section 3(b); and
(2) information on—
(A) the number of reports made, during the
previous year, to Federal law enforcement agen-
cies regarding persons engaging in a sexual act
while acting under color of law; and
(B) the disposition of each case in which sex-
ual misconduct by a person acting under color
of law was reported.
(b) REPORT BY GAO.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
each year thereafter, the Comptroller General of
the United States shall submit to Congress a re-
port on any violations of section 2243(c) of title
18, United States Code, as amended by section 2,
committed during the 1-year period covered by
the report.
SEC. 1305. DEFINITION.
In this title, the term ‘‘sexual act’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 2246 of title
18, United States Code.
TITLE XIV—OTHER MATTERS
SEC. 1401. NATIONAL STALKER AND DOMESTIC VI-
OLENCE REDUCTION.
Section 40603 of the Violent Crime Control and
Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12402) is
amended by striking ‘‘2014 through 2018’’ and
inserting ‘‘2020 through 2024’’.
SEC. 1402. FEDERAL VICTIM ASSISTANTS REAU-
THORIZATION.
Section 40114 of the Violence Against Women
Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–322) is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘SEC. 40114. AUTHORIZATION FOR FEDERAL VIC-
TIM’S COUNSELORS.
‘‘There are authorized to be appropriated for
the United States Attorneys for the purpose of
appointing victim/witness counselors for the
prosecution of sex crimes and domestic violence
crimes where applicable (such as the District of
Columbia), $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years
2020 through 2024.’’.
SEC. 1403. CHILD ABUSE TRAINING PROGRAMS
FOR JUDICIAL PERSONNEL AND
PRACTITIONERS REAUTHORIZATION.
Section 224(a) of the Crime Control Act of 1990
(34 U.S.C. 20334(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘2014
through 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through
2024’’.
SEC. 1404. SEX OFFENDER MANAGEMENT.
Section 40152(c) of the Violent Crime Control
and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C.
12311(c)) is amended by striking ‘‘2014 through
2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through 2024’’.
SEC. 1405. COURT-APPOINTED SPECIAL ADVO-
CATE PROGRAM.
Section 219(a) of the Crime Control Act of 1990
(34 U.S.C. 20324(a)) is amended by striking ‘‘2014
through 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through
2024’’.
SEC. 1406. RAPE KIT BACKLOG.
Section 2(j) of the DNA Analysis Backlog
Elimination Act of 2000 (34 U.S.C. 40701) is
amended by striking ‘‘2015 through 2019’’ and
inserting ‘‘2020 through 2024’’.
SEC. 1407. SEXUAL ASSAULT FORENSIC EXAM
PROGRAM GRANTS.
Section 304(d) of the DNA Sexual Assault Jus-
tice Act of 2004 (34 U.S.C. 40723(d)) is amended
by striking ‘‘2015 through 2019’’ and inserting
‘‘2020 through 2024’’.
The Acting CHAIR. No amendment
to that amendment in the nature of a
substitute is in order except those
printed in part B of House Report 116–
32. Each such amendment may be of-
fered only in the order printed in the
report, by a Member designated in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.001 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3029
April 3, 2019
report, shall be considered read, shall
be debatable for the time specified in
the report, equally divided and con-
trolled by the proponent and an oppo-
nent, shall not be subject to amend-
ment, and shall not be subject to a de-
mand for division of the question.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. JEFFRIES
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 1 printed in
part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 114, after line 13, insert the following:
(4) COMMON LANGUAGES.—The Secretary of
Labor shall ensure that the information dis-
seminated to survivors under paragraph (2) is
made available in commonly encountered
languages.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from New York (Mr. JEFFRIES) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I rise today to offer an
amendment to H.R. 1585, the reauthor-
ization of the Violence Against Women
Act.
This amendment modestly modifies
the bill to ensure that the materials
distributed to victims and survivors
are available in commonly encountered
languages.
There are approximately 26 million
Americans whose primary language is
not English. One in five American fam-
ilies speak another language at home.
In my home State of New York, that
number is one in three. Languages spo-
ken throughout the country include
Spanish, Chinese, Tagalog, Viet-
namese, and French, just to name a
few.
H.R. 1585 provides that the Secretary
of Labor may disseminate information
on the resources and rights available to
survivors of domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, or stalking. It
is important that all survivors and all
victims, regardless of the language
they primarily speak or read, have ac-
cess to such critical information.
This amendment will not adversely
impact Federal spending. In fact, sev-
eral agencies, including the Depart-
ment of Labor, have similar obliga-
tions to provide materials and notices
in commonly encountered languages,
and guidance and resources are avail-
able on how to do so consistent with
existing provisions in other areas of
law.
Let me also briefly express my sup-
port for this important and significant
legislation.
Since the Violence Against Women
Act was first enacted 30 years ago, it
has helped to address the crisis of do-
mestic and sexual violence through
vital grant programs and improved law
enforcement response to sexual crimes.
It has also elevated an important na-
tional conversation about this issue,
drawing attention to its prevalence, re-
ducing stigma, and encouraging sur-
vivors to get support.
I want to thank the distinguished
chair of the House Judiciary Com-
mittee, JERRY NADLER, for his tremen-
dous leadership, as well as my friend,
Congresswoman KAREN BASS, for her
leadership in ushering forward H.R.
1585.
I am proud today that we are doing
our part in the United States House of
Representatives to reauthorize the Vio-
lence Against Women Act and urge my
colleagues to support this amendment
and the underlying bill.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
claim the time in opposition, although
I am not opposed to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
appreciate my friend from New York. I
have no problem with his amendment.
It is already a current, existing order,
introduced by President Clinton, and it
is also under DOJ guidance. This is
currently happening, and I think his
wanting to continue this, to put it in
this bill, I would have no problem with.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. JEFFRIES. Mr. Chair, I thank
the distinguished gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. COLLINS), my colleague,
the ranking member on the House Ju-
diciary Committee, for his support.
This is a nation of immigrants. We
are a gorgeous mosaic of people from
all across the world. Out of many, we
are one. That is what makes America
such a phenomenal country.
We just want to make sure that, with
respect to this issue of sexual and do-
mestic violence, every American who is
a victim has an opportunity to get ac-
cess to the resources that will be put
into law.
I thank my colleagues for their sup-
port, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. JEFFRIES).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from New York will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MS. SCANLON
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 2 printed in
part B of House Report 116–32.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 25, line 15, insert ‘‘(a) IN GENERAL—’’
before ‘‘Section 1201’’.
Page 26, after line 12, insert the following:
(b) GAO REPORT.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General of the United States
shall submit to Congress a report on the re-
turn on investment for legal assistance
grants awarded pursuant to section 1201 of
division B of the Victims of Trafficking and
Violence Protection Act of 2000 (34 U.S.C.
20121), including an accounting of the
amount saved, if any, on housing, medical,
or employment social welfare programs.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from Pennsylvania (Ms. SCANLON) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Pennsylvania.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self as much time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I rise today to offer an
amendment to study the return on in-
vestment of legal services for survivors
of domestic violence.
As a former legal services board
member and director of a pro bono pro-
gram, I know the importance of legal
representation for the most vulnerable
members of our community.
Access to justice is especially critical
when it comes to survivors of domestic
violence and human trafficking. Too
often, survivors are left to navigate the
overwhelming fallout of abuse alone,
whether that means seeking custody,
housing, medical care, employment
protections, or other legal assistance.
In the aftermath of abuse, legal rem-
edies are often complicated and hard to
manage, and legal representation in
these critical moments can make a
life-changing difference. Sometimes
that means a lawyer who can remove
the abuser from the home so the sur-
vivor doesn’t lose their housing; other
times, it is an attorney helping a sur-
vivor access the medical resources to
heal from physical and mental injuries.
Access to justice remains a crucial
issue in our legal system, and one of
the key contributions of VAWA is that
it recognizes the importance of legal
services for the survivors of abuse. So
not only does VAWA provide critical
medical and housing services, but it
provides legal representation that
often saves public dollars.
As with many social services, upfront
investment in legal services can result
in long-term benefits and savings. That
is why my amendment would ask the
GAO to conduct a study about the eco-
nomic benefits of investments in legal
services provided under the jurisdic-
tion of VAWA.
It is important that we have a full
grasp of the importance of these in-
vestments so that my colleagues and I
can continue pushing for robust invest-
ment in these critical legal resources. I
urge my colleagues to support this
amendment and the underlying bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.044 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3030 April 3, 2019
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
claim the time in opposition, although
I am not opposed to it.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
reserve the balance my time.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Chair, I thank
the distinguished gentleman from
Georgia, and I thank my colleagues for
their support.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from New York (Mr. NAD-
LER).
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Chair, I support this amendment,
which would require the preparation of
a GAO report on the return on invest-
ment for legal assistance grants for
victims.
Studies show that the efficiency of
the legal system improves whenever
victims receive assistance by legal pro-
fessionals. This amendment would pro-
vide a vehicle to help us assess the ef-
fectiveness and ramifications of pro-
viding legal assistance for victims, par-
ticularly in the areas of housing, med-
ical needs, and employment social wel-
fare programs.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support this amendment.
Ms. SCANLON. Mr. Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms.
SCANLON).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chair, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentlewoman from Pennsylvania
will be postponed.
b 1530
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MS. ESCOBAR
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 3 printed in
part B of House Report 116–32.
Ms. ESCOBAR. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 156, insert after line 20 (and conform
the table of contents accordingly):
SEC. 1103. RESEARCH AND REPORT ON WOMEN
IN FEDERAL INCARCERATION.
Not later than 18 months after the date of
enactment of this Act, and thereafter, every
other year, the National Institutes of Jus-
tice, in consultation with the Bureau of Jus-
tice Statistics and the Bureau of Prisons (in-
cluding the Women and Special Population
Branch) shall prepare a report on the status
of women in federal incarceration. Depend-
ing on the topic to be addressed, and the fa-
cility, data shall be collected from Bureau of
Prisons personnel and a sample that is rep-
resentative of the population of incarcerated
women. The report shall include:
(1) With regard to federal facilities wherein
women are incarcerated—
(A) responses by such women to questions
from the Adverse Childhood Experience
(ACES) questionnaire;
(B) demographic data of such women, in-
cluding sexual orientation and gender iden-
tity;
(C) responses by such women to questions
about the extent of exposure to sexual vic-
timization, sexual violence and domestic vio-
lence (both inside and outside of incarcer-
ation);
(D) the number of such women were preg-
nant at the time that they entered incarcer-
ation;
(E) the number of such women who have
children age 18 or under, and if so, how
many; and
(F) the crimes for which such women are
incarcerated and the length of their sen-
tence.
(2) With regard to all federal facilities
where persons are incarcerated—
(A) a list of best practices with respect to
women’s incarceration and transition, in-
cluding staff led programs, services and man-
agement practices (including making sani-
tary products readily available and easily
accessible, and access to and provision of
healthcare);
(B) the availability of trauma treatment at
each facility (including number of beds, and
number of trained staff);
(C) rates of serious mental illness broken
down by gender and security level and a list
of residential programs available by site; and
(D) the availability of vocational edu-
cation and a list of vocational programs pro-
vided by each facility.
SEC. 1104. REENTRY PLANNING AND SERVICES
FOR INCARCERATED WOMEN.
The Attorney General, in coordination
with the Chief of U.S. Probation and Pretrial
Services and the Director of the Bureau of
Prisons (including Women and Special Popu-
lation Branch), shall collaborate on a model
of gender responsive transition for incarcer-
ated women, including the development of a
national standard on prevention with respect
to domestic and sexual violence. In devel-
oping the model, the Chief and the Director
shall consult with such experts within the
federal government (including the Office on
Violence Against Women of the Department
of Justice) and in the victim service provider
community (including sexual and domestic
violence and homelessness, job training and
job placement service providers) as are nec-
essary to the completion of a comprehensive
plan. Issues addressed should include—
(1) the development by the Bureau of Pris-
ons of a contract for gender collaborative
services; and
(2) identification by re-entry affairs coordi-
nators and responsive planning for the needs
of re-entering women with respect to—
(A) housing, including risk of homeless-
ness;
(B) previous exposure to and risk for do-
mestic and sexual violence; and
(C) the need for parenting classes, assist-
ance securing childcare, or assistance in
seeking or securing jobs that afford flexi-
bility (as might be necessary in the re-entry,
parenting or other contexts).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from Texas (Ms. ESCOBAR) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
Ms. ESCOBAR. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I thank Representatives
BASS and FITZPATRICK and Chairman
NADLER for their work on this bill,
which will provide critical support to
women.
My amendment has two components
to help ensure our work reaches women
in every corner of society.
The first requires an annual report
on the status of women in Federal in-
carceration. According to the Federal
Bureau of Prisons, women account for
approximately 7 percent of the Federal
inmate population. As of March 28, the
U.S. had 180,181 Federal inmates. This
means that the number of female pris-
oners in America is about 12,613.
Women in prison face unique chal-
lenges. For example, they are more
likely to have their children taken
away from them while they are incar-
cerated, more likely to have trouble
accessing basic hygiene products, and
more likely to suffer from mental
health problems.
A report done by the Center for
American Progress found that 75 per-
cent of incarcerated women suffer from
substance abuse problems, while 68 per-
cent experienced physical or sexual
abuse at some point in their lives.
This commonsense amendment would
compile more comprehensive, badly
needed data to help us better under-
stand the needs of incarcerated women
and help us deliver the services they
need.
The report on women would include
data points such as sexual orientation
and gender identity, exposure to sexual
and domestic violence, whether the
woman was pregnant at the time of her
incarceration, and length of sentence.
The report would also collect data on
all Federal facilities where women are
incarcerated to determine best prac-
tices and the availability of trauma
treatment.
This information can then be used by
Congress to develop policies that would
better serve women and their families.
The second component of my amend-
ment directs the Attorney General, in
coordination with the Chief of U.S.
Probation and Pretrial Services and
the Director of the Bureau of Prisons,
to collaborate on reentry planning and
services for incarcerated women, in-
cluding the development of a national
standard on domestic and sexual vio-
lence prevention.
Reentry and planning services are
vital because reentering society is a
difficult process for many and rep-
resents a critical point of transition
that may help solidify rehabilitation or
may, if poorly managed, pose new risk
to success.
This is especially the case for women
because of the unique circumstances I
mentioned previously. Many are care-
takers for their children, victims of
abuse, and have addiction issues.
For example, finding a place to live
is especially difficult. Formerly incar-
cerated individuals are nearly 10 times
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.047 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3031
April 3, 2019
more likely to become homeless. Data
from the Prison Policy Initiative show
that formerly incarcerated women face
homelessness at much higher rates
than men. For women of color, the rate
of homelessness only increases. Fur-
ther, many shelters are reluctant to
accept women with children.
When developing reentry plans and
services, the Department of Justice of-
ficials are required to address gender-
collaborative services; housing; pre-
vious exposure to and risk for domestic
and sexual violence; and the need for
parenting classes, securing childcare
assistance, and assistance securing jobs
that afford flexibility.
Finally, the establishment of a na-
tional standard on domestic and sexual
violence prevention will ensure that
the government sets the bar for pro-
tecting vulnerable women from abuse.
Affirmatively including incarcerated
women in the reauthorization of VAWA
will enable the government to treat
these women with dignity and respect
and ensure we are doing all we can to
prevent future victims of violence.
I urge my colleagues to support this
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. I claim the
time in opposition to the amendment,
although I am not opposed.
The Acting CHAIR (Mrs. LAWRENCE).
Without objection, the gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, again, I am not opposed to the
amendment. I appreciate some of the
comments by the gentlewoman from
Texas.
Several of these were actually in the
FIRST STEP Act, which we passed last
year, on criminal justice reform. I am
glad to see that they are still being dis-
cussed.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Chair, I
thank the distinguished gentleman
from Georgia, and I yield 30 seconds to
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
NADLER).
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding.
I support this amendment, which
would direct the preparation of a re-
port on the status of women in Federal
incarceration. The amendment would
also direct the Attorney General to
work on a model of gender-responsive
transition for incarcerated women, in-
cluding the development of a national
standard on prevention with respect to
domestic and sexual violence.
According to the U.S. Commission on
Civil Rights, very little current data
exists on the status of incarcerated
women in Federal custody. This
amendment will allow us to better re-
spond to the needs of incarcerated
women, and it will provide us with vi-
tally important data, for oversight pur-
poses.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment.
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Texas (Ms. ESCOBAR).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MS. DEAN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 4 printed in
part B of House Report 116–32.
Ms. DEAN. Madam Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 16, after line 2, insert the following:
SEC. 4. AGENCY AND DEPARTMENT COORDINA-
TION.
The heads of Executive Departments re-
sponsible for carrying out this Act are au-
thorized to coordinate and collaborate on the
prevention of domestic violence, dating vio-
lence, sexual assault, and stalking, including
sharing best practices and efficient use of re-
sources and technology for victims and those
seeking assistance from the Government.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from Pennsylvania (Ms. DEAN) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Pennsylvania.
Ms. DEAN. Madam Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
I rise to offer this amendment to
H.R. 1585, the Violence Against Women
Reauthorization Act of 2019.
My amendment allows for cross-agen-
cy coordination to collaborate on the
prevention of domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, and stalking,
and for the agencies to share best prac-
tices for victims.
This will allow for greater efficiency
and transparency, and most impor-
tantly, it will allow for the sharing of
best practices and information that
could help survivors of domestic vio-
lence.
With every reauthorization of VAWA
since 1994, we have enhanced its protec-
tions, preserved its accomplishments,
and removed its shortcomings, includ-
ing adding protections for the elderly
and the disabled, expanding sexual as-
sault and stalking provisions, and
fighting housing discrimination.
These reauthorizations of VAWA
have allowed us to come together to
work collaboratively to combat domes-
tic violence. Similarly, my amendment
asks the agencies to work cohesively
together and coordinate to accomplish
a common goal: to protect survivors
and their families, and to end violence
against women.
As we know, domestic violence
plagues all communities across this
country and all the districts that we
represent. In my home State of Penn-
sylvania, the problem is no different.
In the last 10 years, more than 1,600
people have died as a result of domestic
violence, including people of all demo-
graphics. Domestic violence has af-
fected the lives of thousands of Penn-
sylvanians. Sadly, just in 2017, two of
my constituents in Montgomery Coun-
ty lost their lives to domestic violence.
That is why it is so imperative that
we reauthorize the Violence Against
Women Act, because we know, since its
inception, the rate of violence has de-
creased by a remarkable 63 percent.
We have the opportunity to come to-
gether once again and pass this bipar-
tisan VAWA reauthorization with new
and better provisions, including ex-
panding protections for young victims,
survivors without shelters, and LGBTQ
people; preventing intimate partner
homicides by prohibiting those con-
victed of dating violence from pos-
sessing firearms; and protecting the Of-
fice on Violence Against Women to en-
sure survivors of domestic violence
have access to the much-needed re-
sources they deserve.
I am pleased to be an original cospon-
sor of the Violence Against Women
Act, and I urge my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle to stand up against
domestic violence, support this amend-
ment, and vote to reauthorize this
vital piece of legislation.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition,
although I am not opposed to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. DEAN. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Penn-
sylvania (Ms. WILD).
Ms. WILD. Madam Chair, I thank the
gentlewoman from Pennsylvania for
yielding.
I rise in support of this amendment,
which is being sponsored by my col-
league and friend from Pennsylvania.
The Violence Against Women Reau-
thorization Act, VAWA, responds to
our Nation’s crisis of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault,
and stalking. VAWA expired in Sep-
tember of last year, and it is long past
time for Congress to reauthorize this
legislation.
Representative DEAN’s amendment
will increase interagency cooperation
efforts to prevent violence and provide
critical services to survivors. No one
solution can stop every act of violence,
but this amendment recognizes that
more coordination among agencies
over best practices, resources, and
technology will lead to better results
for those in need of urgent assistance.
As survivors transition out of crisis,
they need access to housing,
healthcare, and other vital resources to
rebuild their lives. In my home dis-
trict, organizations like Turning Point
of Lehigh Valley assist survivors of
abuse and their families. This amend-
ment and VAWA overall will enable
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.050 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3032 April 3, 2019
shelters like Turning Point to better
serve people in need.
Madam Chair, I am proud to stand
with survivors.
Ms. DEAN. Madam Chair, I thank the
author of this important bill, Rep-
resentative BASS, and I thank the tire-
less advocates who have worked to
bring us to this important day.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment and to
please support this bill.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms.
DEAN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MRS. TORRES OF
CALIFORNIA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 5 printed in
part B of House Report 116–32.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 33, line 17, strike ‘‘and’’ at the end.
Page 34, line 3, strike the period at the end
and insert the following: ‘‘; and’’.
Page 34, after line 3, insert the following:
(4) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(e) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of the enactment of the Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2019,
the Secretary, acting through the Director
of the Centers for Disease Control and Pre-
vention, shall submit to Congress, the Com-
mittee on Appropriations and the Committee
on Energy and Commerce of the House of
Representatives, and the Committee on Ap-
propriations and the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Sen-
ate a report on the activities funded by
grants awarded under this section and best
practices relating to rape prevention and
education.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from California (Mrs. TORRES) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Chair, I rise today to offer an amend-
ment to H.R. 1585, the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2019.
Madam Chair, rape is a crisis in this
country. In the United States, one in
five women will be raped in their life-
time—one in five. Men can be rape vic-
tims, too. As a matter of fact, 1 in 71
men will be raped.
The LGBTQ community suffers from
even higher rates of sexual violence
and rape. Forty-six percent of bisexual
women have been raped, and 47 percent
of transgender individuals have been
assaulted at some point in their lives.
These statistics are more severe for
people of color in the LGBTQ commu-
nity. What is worse is that many
LGBTQ victims are denied services
simply because of their sexual orienta-
tion or gender identity.
Whether we know it or not, everyone
in this room knows a rape survivor.
Maybe she or he is the barista who
makes your morning coffee.
b 1545
Maybe she or he is a security officer
who smiles at you on your way to
work. Maybe he or she is your co-
worker, your sibling, your partner, or
your child. Many people don’t realize
that they know a rape survivor.
Too often, rape isn’t reported because
victims fear the consequences. Often
survivors fear that no one will believe
them or that they will be blamed or
stigmatized. In the #MeToo era, the
pervasiveness of sexual assault has
come to the forefront. However, the
public is still grappling with our under-
standing of rape, the myth versus re-
ality.
Many people still think that rape is
only an act committed by a stranger in
a dark alley. Instances like this do
happen. In 2016, Brock Turner raped an
unconscious young woman behind a
dumpster. His punishment? Three
months in jail. This sentencing alone
reflects the failure to understand rape
and a tendency to blame the victim.
Our comprehension of rape has
changed dramatically in the past dec-
ade. Instances of rape being per-
petrated by strangers do happen, but
eight out of ten rape survivors knew
their rapist. The majority of female
survivors were raped by an intimate
partner.
While there is plenty of data on
VAWA grants administered by the Of-
fice of Violence Against Women, an
analysis by the Congressional Research
Service found that there is insufficient
information on RPE formula grants
run by the CDC.
To prevent rape and create innova-
tive trauma-informed policies and pro-
grams, we need to improve our under-
standing of which initiatives are effec-
tive. My amendment will bridge this
information gap and help better inform
our rape prevention efforts. My amend-
ment requires the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention to provide a re-
port to Congress on the activity of
grant awardees funded through the
Rape Prevention and Education Grant
Program as well as on emerging and
best practices relating to rape preven-
tion and education.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I rise in opposition, although I
am not opposed to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Chair, I would like to thank the gentle-
woman from California (Ms. BASS), the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON
LEE), and Chairman NADLER for intro-
ducing H.R. 1585, the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2019,
and I urge its swift passage.
Lastly, Madam Chair, I would ask
that this amendment be made in order,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from California (Mrs.
TORRES).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MR. BURGESS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 6 printed in
part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Chairman, I
call up amendment No. 6 to H.R. 1585.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 170, line 18, strike ‘‘Section 2(j)’’ and
insert ‘‘Section 2’’.
Page 170, line 19, strike ‘‘by’’ and insert ‘‘—
’’.
Page 170, strike lines 20 through 21, and in-
sert the following:
(1) in subsection (f)—
(A) in paragraph (1) by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) by redesignating paragraph (2) as para-
graph (3); and
(C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) information on best practices for state
and local governments to reduce the backlog
of DNA evidence’’; and
(2) in subsection (j), by striking ‘‘2015
through 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through
2024’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. BURGESS) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Texas.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Chairman,
the Violence Against Women Act reau-
thorizes the Debbie Smith DNA Back-
log Grant Program through 2024. This
amendment simply requires State and
local governments that are recipients
of the grant program to include infor-
mation in their reports to the Attorney
General on best practices for reducing
the backlog of DNA evidence.
This grant program was originally
authorized under the Justice for All
Act of 2004 to provide grants to State
and local governments for the collec-
tion and analysis of forensic samples
and to ensure the timely processing of
DNA evidence by law enforcement.
Congress reauthorized the program sev-
eral times, most recently providing
$151 million for fiscal year 2019.
Despite these efforts, the backlog of
untested DNA evidence is still high.
According to reporting from The Texas
Tribune, a paper back in the State of
Texas, it costs between $500 and $2,000
to test a kit, and there are approxi-
mately 3,500 untested kits in Texas
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.052 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3033
April 3, 2019
alone. We must continue working to re-
duce this backlog so that we can bring
justice to the victims of assault.
State and local grant recipients are
required to submit a report to the At-
torney General which is then summa-
rized for Congress. My amendment adds
best practices for reducing the backlog
to the report required by grant recipi-
ents in order to better understand the
needs of entities directly involved in
collecting and processing DNA evi-
dence.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment, although I am not opposed to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from New York is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I sup-
port this amendment to improve the
reporting requirements for States and
localities that receive funding under
the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant
Program.
As we all know, because of the in-
creased awareness of the potential for
DNA evidence to help solve criminal
cases, the demand for DNA testing con-
tinues to grow nationwide. Crime lab-
oratories now process more DNA than
ever before. In recognition of this, H.R.
1585 reauthorizes the Debbie Smith
Act, which I helped to originate.
This amendment directs States and
localities to report information to the
Attorney General on best practices for
reducing the backlog of DNA evidence.
The emphasis on best practices is a
good one, as it will help ensure that
the backlog is cleared in as expeditious
and efficient a manner as possible.
Madam Chair, I encourage my col-
leagues to support the amendment, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Chairman, I
thank the gentleman for his support,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MS. WATERS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 7 printed in
part B of House Report 116–32.
Ms. WATERS. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 39, after line 6, insert the following:
‘‘(12) To train campus personnel in how to
use a victim-centered, trauma-informed
interview technique, which means asking
questions of a student or a campus employee
who is reported to be a victim of sexual har-
assment, sexual assault, domestic violence,
dating violence, or stalking, in a manner
that is focused on the experience of the re-
ported victim, that does not judge or blame
the reported victim for the alleged crime,
and that is informed by evidence-based re-
search on the neurobiology of trauma. To
the extent practicable, campus personnel
shall allow the reported victim to partici-
pate in a recorded interview and to receive a
copy of the recorded interview.’’;
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from California (Ms. WATERS) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
Ms. WATERS. Madam Chairman, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of
H.R. 1585, the Violence Against Women
Reauthorization Act of 2019. This legis-
lation is the result of the tireless work
of advocates, Chairman NADLER, of the
bill’s original sponsor, my colleague
from California, Congresswoman
KAREN BASS, and most especially, the
women who survived domestic violence
and sexual assault and bravely shared
their stories. Without their courage,
this legislation would not be on the
floor today.
I also appreciate the title in this bill
which helps victims of domestic vio-
lence access safe housing. Women who
are in dangerous situations at home
need to be able to quickly transfer to
alternative housing, and that is pre-
cisely what Title 6 of this bill aims to
do. I understand that there are some
stakeholders who have raised some
questions about how the implementa-
tion of this title would work, and I will
continue to work with them as this bill
moves through the Senate.
Though the Violence Against Women
Act has led to widespread change in
how our Nation understands and re-
sponds to domestic violence, sexual as-
sault, and sexual harassment, much
work remains to be done.
Twenty-five years after the original
Violence Against Women Act passed in
1994, women who came forward are still
too often disregarded, disgraced, and
humiliated, all because those in power
know that if the stories of the trauma
and abuse suffered by women are true,
then everything—including their
power—would need to change. My
amendment is another step toward en-
suring that women who speak out and
refuse to be silenced are supported and
heard.
Section 303 of H.R. 1585 includes the
grant program that provides funds to
higher education institutions to com-
bat violent crimes on campuses, in-
cluding especially, domestic and sexual
violence. My amendment would create
a new purpose area for section 303
grants, which allows funding to be used
by higher education institutions to
train employees on how to conduct vic-
tim-centered, trauma-informed inter-
views with the students who report
being a victim of sexual assault, do-
mestic violence, stalking, or harass-
ment. The employee would be trained
to communicate in a manner which
does not blame or judge the survivor
for the crimes he or she reports.
My amendment stipulates that if a
student requests to have a record of
their conversations with college em-
ployees and administrators, then
schools which accept funding for this
purpose area must offer a recorded
interview. Given the lengthy record of
colleges suppressing reports of sexual
or domestic violence on campus, re-
corded interviews can be incredibly im-
portant to survivors.
Only one in five female college stu-
dents report their sexual assault, and
many cite a fear of retaliation and not
being believed as the primary reasons
they stayed silent. Students who come
forward and report an assault or other
crime should never be made to feel that
they are at fault, that they will be pun-
ished, or that they should feel shame.
College administrators should never
use their ignorance as to how trauma
affects young women—which can often
make it difficult for a victim to recall
exactly what happened and when—as a
reason to discredit those who report.
My amendment will help ensure that
never happens by facilitating the train-
ing necessary for colleges to better
support students as they navigate what
is likely to be one of the most trau-
matic moments in their lives.
So, Madam Chair, I urge all of my
colleagues to support training to pro-
mote more effective conversations be-
tween students and college employees
and vote in the affirmative for my
amendment.
Madam Chairman, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chairman, I do claim the time in oppo-
sition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I understand the gentlewoman’s
concern here, and I appreciate that
concern.
A bigger concern I have here is con-
cerning the trend of handling respon-
sibilities on campus and giving those—
in a criminal matter and putting them
into campus personnel rather than law
enforcement. My concern is that these
are crimes and they need to be treated
as crimes.
We need to do everything we possibly
can to treat those victims and give
them as much support and help as we
possibly can, but I don’t want to give
in to the implication that this should
be treated as anything other than a
crime, and law enforcement personnel
should be involved in all stages.
I have seen a concerning trend across
the country in trying to treat these
differently or even adding in a layer of
investigation. This needs to be treated
as a crime.
I understand the gentlewoman’s con-
cern here, and expanding this grant
program could result from others in re-
ducing resources that are available for
prosecution. So I understand the gen-
tlewoman’s concern. I just would op-
pose this for those reasons and no more
that.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.057 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3034 April 3, 2019
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Madam Chairman, I
rise to continue to try and educate my
colleagues on the opposite side of the
aisle about the trauma that is faced by
victims of sexual assault, and I am
hopeful that they will agree with me,
join in this amendment, and support
this amendment so that we can create
the opportunity to get these conversa-
tions going so that, indeed, these
women can be supported and under-
stood perhaps in ways this has never
happened before.
Madam Chair, I yield to the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. NADLER)
who is the chair of the Judiciary Com-
mittee.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I sup-
port this amendment which expands
the types of grants that can be funded
to combat violent crimes on college
campuses.
Evidence-based research on the
neurobiology of trauma has shown the
effectiveness of using victim-centered,
trauma-informed interview techniques
when investigating allegations of sex-
ual harassment, sexual assault, domes-
tic violence, dating violence, or stalk-
ing.
This amendment seeks to ensure that
campus personnel who investigate
these types of cases are trained in up-
to-date, research-based methods for
interviewing victims and handling
cases in a sensitive manner.
Madam Chair, I encourage my col-
leagues to support this amendment.
Ms. WATERS. Madam Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
b 1600
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I appreciate the gentlewoman’s
concern; but, also, I do understand this
issue, as someone who has been in the
legal community, been a counselor,
also a chaplain in the Air Force who
has had to deal with sexual assault
issues, and also served on the local
board of Rape Response.
I do get these issues. I don’t disagree
with the gentlewoman that there are
concerns here, that we do need to be
sensitive and we do need to do this.
My concern lies simply in the fact
that we need to put this funding and
these resources not to a bifurcated
process, but we also need to continue
to make sure that this goes to law en-
forcement, because someone who mis-
treats and someone who is a victim of
sexual harassment, sexual assault, do-
mestic violence, dating violence, or
stalking—it is a crime, and it needs to
be treated as that.
We need to make sure our law en-
forcement personnel can have better
resources and better access so that the
victims can be taken care of and the
perpetrators can be locked up. That is
my concern here, not that I don’t un-
derstand what the victims may be
going through.
Although I have never personally
been a victim, I have counseled on
many occasions people who have been
victims. So, I would just caution, so we
understand the differences in our opin-
ions, why someone may hold an opin-
ion. And mine was simply from a law
enforcement perspective, not that I
was ignoring or ambivalent toward the
feelings of those who have been victim-
ized.
Madam Chair, I would just oppose
this for those reasons and nothing
more, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentlewoman from California will
be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 8 OFFERED BY MR. YOUNG
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 8 printed in
part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. YOUNG. Madam Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 135, strike lines 8 through 15, and in-
sert the following:
‘‘(g) INDIAN COUNTRY DEFINED.—For pur-
poses of the pilot project described in sub-
section (f)(5), the definition of ‘Indian coun-
try’ shall include—
‘‘(1) Alaska Native-owned Townsites, Allot-
ments, and former reservation lands ac-
quired in fee by Alaska Native Village Cor-
porations pursuant to the Alaska Native
Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 33) and
other lands transferred in fee to Native vil-
lages, and
‘‘(2) all lands within any Alaska Native vil-
lage with a population that is at least 75 per-
cent Alaska Native.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from Alaska (Mr. YOUNG) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Alaska.
Mr. YOUNG. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, my amendment would
improve this bill’s application to re-
mote Alaska Native villages.
Women in Alaska Native villages suf-
fer the very highest sexual abuse rates
in the Nation.
Alaska Native women are overrepre-
sented in the domestic violence sur-
vivor population by 250 percent.
Alaska Natives comprise about 19
percent of the State’s population, yet
are 47 percent of the reported rape sur-
vivors.
Yet, Native villages currently lack
any efficient tools to criminally pros-
ecute the offenders. The remoteness
and isolation of the Native villages,
most of which are not connected to the
road system and only accessible by air,
makes it difficult to prevent violence
and care for the survivors.
Almost all of these villages lack any
form of law enforcement, and it can
take days for authorities to fly to the
village and respond to an incident, par-
ticularly when weather conditions are
bad.
My amendment will open the door to
a meaningful pilot project to help over-
come these limitations by crafting an
Alaska solution for a unique Alaska
problem.
Currently, the bill would create an
Alaska Native jurisdiction pilot pro-
gram for five villages, but only covers
Native lands that are largely outside
the villages. These lands are not where
people live and, therefore, not where
crimes are committed.
My amendment would add jurisdic-
tion for all lands inside Alaska Native
villages to cover where the majority of
violence actually occurs.
Villages need to be empowered to de-
velop local solutions to these problems.
My amendment is supported by the
National Congress of American Indi-
ans, Alaska Federation of Natives, the
Tanana Chiefs Conference, and Bristol
Bay Native Corporation.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment for Alaska,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment, although I am not opposed to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from New York is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I sup-
port this amendment because it im-
proves and enhances the special Tribal
criminal jurisdiction pilot project cre-
ated by VAWA in 2013 specifically to
benefit Alaska Natives.
For over 5 years, the special Tribal
criminal jurisdiction has given quali-
fying Tribes across the United States
the authority to prosecute non-Tribal
members for certain offenses.
This year’s reauthorization of VAWA
would extend that jurisdiction to more
crimes, including dating violence, sex-
ual assault, and stalking.
Tribes across the country have been
effectively exercising their authority
under VAWA and keeping their com-
munities safe. This amendment would
ensure that Alaska Native villages that
qualify are also able to exercise this
type of jurisdiction. It is only fair that
they be allowed to do so.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. YOUNG. Madam Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Alaska (Mr. YOUNG).
The amendment was agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.060 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3035
April 3, 2019
AMENDMENT NO. 9 OFFERED BY MS. JOHNSON OF
TEXAS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 9 printed in
part B of House Report 116–32.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 52, line 13, strike ‘‘means a transfer’’
and insert ‘‘means an emergency transfer
under subsection (e) from a unit of a covered
housing provider’’.
Page 52, line 16, insert ‘‘that can transfer
to any unit of the same covered housing pro-
vider’’ before the period at the end.
Page 52, line 18, strike ‘‘means a transfer’’
and insert ‘‘means an emergency transfer
under subsection (e) from a unit of a covered
housing provider’’.
Page 59, strike lines 17 through 21 and in-
sert the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A tenant who is a victim
of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, or stalking may apply for an emer-
gency transfer to another available and safe
dwelling unit assisted under a covered hous-
ing program, and the covered housing pro-
vider shall grant such application if—’’.
Page 60, line 24, strike ‘‘internal emer-
gency transfer’’ and insert ‘‘internal trans-
fer’’.
Page 61, beginning on line 4, strike ‘‘inter-
nal emergency transfer’’ and insert ‘‘internal
transfer’’.
Page 61, beginning on line 8, strike ‘‘inter-
nal emergency transfer’’ and insert ‘‘internal
transfer’’.
Page 61, line 15, strike ‘‘external emer-
gency transfer’’ and insert ‘‘external trans-
fer’’.
Page 62, beginning on line 1, strike ‘‘inter-
nal emergency transfer’’ and insert ‘‘internal
transfer’’.
Page 62, line 3, strike ‘‘external emergency
transfer’’ and insert ‘‘external transfer’’.
Page 62, line 5, strike ‘‘internal emergency
transfer’’ and insert ‘‘internal transfer’’.
Page 62, line 6, strike ‘‘external emergency
transfer’’ and insert ‘‘external transfer’’.
Page 62, line 8, strike ‘‘emergency’’.
Page 62, line 11, strike ‘‘emergency’’.
Page 63, line 9, strike ‘‘emergency’’.
Page 63, line 15, strike ‘‘emergency’’.
Page 63, line 18, strike ‘‘emergency’’.
Page 69, line 19, strike ‘‘subsection’’ and
insert ‘‘section’’.
Page 73, line 7, strike ‘‘subsection’’ and in-
sert ‘‘section’’.
Page 80, line 9, strike ‘‘external emergency
transfer’’ and insert ‘‘external transfer’’.
Page 80, line 21, strike ‘‘external emer-
gency transfer’’ and insert ‘‘external trans-
fer’’.
Page 80, line 24, strike ‘‘external emer-
gency transfer’’ and insert ‘‘external trans-
fer’’.
Page 84, line 6, strike ‘‘pararaph’’ and in-
sert ‘‘paragraph’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam
Chair, I rise today in support of my
amendment offered to H.R. 1585, the Vi-
olence Against Women Reauthorization
Act of 2019.
My amendment will ensure that a
tenant who is a victim of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault,
or stalking is able to apply for an
emergency transfer to another avail-
able and safe dwelling unit assisted
under a covered housing program. The
covered housing provider shall grant
such application.
This amendment has also been scored
by the Congressional Budget Office to
have no effect on direct spending or
revenues.
In my home State of Texas and my
city of Dallas, we are, unfortunately,
deeply familiar with the tragedies in-
volved in domestic violence. Families
have been broken apart and people
have lost their lives to the scourge of
domestic violence.
We have the duty to do more to pro-
tect these people. Therefore, it is nec-
essary for us to make clear the distinc-
tion in law, the difference between in-
ternal and external transfers. Though
it may sound trivial, this amendment
is crucial to providing victims of do-
mestic violence a sense of safety, secu-
rity, and dignity.
As representatives of Americans from
all corners of our country, we know
that this problem is not unique to any
one part of our Nation. It is widespread
and engrossing, and our response to it
must also measure up to the signifi-
cance of the challenge.
Americans today are in need of pro-
tections and assistance to recover from
domestic violence. They need these
protections to return to full and pros-
perous lives.
By voting in favor of this amend-
ment, Congress is upholding our sacred
obligation to protect the millions of
victims and survivors who need and de-
serve our wholehearted, full support.
As co-chair of the Congressional
Homeless Caucus, I have worked on
housing issues for a long time. I am ap-
preciative of my colleagues on the Ju-
diciary and Financial Services Com-
mittees for their partnership in
strengthening the housing protections
in this Violence Against Women Reau-
thorization Act of 2019.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support the amendment, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition,
although I am not opposed.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I appreciate the gentlewoman’s
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam
Chair, I simply urge adoption of this
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Texas (Ms. JOHNSON).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 10 OFFERED BY MRS. WAGNER
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 10 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 35, line 3, strike ‘‘and stalking’’ and
insert ‘‘stalking, and sex trafficking’’.
Page 35, strike lines 4 through 17, and in-
sert the following (and redesignate other
provisions accordingly):
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘or’’
at the end;
(iii) in subparagraph (C), by striking the
period at the end and inserting a semicolon;
and
Page 35, lines 22 through 23, strike ‘‘and
stalking’’ and insert ‘‘stalking, and sex traf-
ficking’’.
Page 36, line 8, insert ‘‘sex trafficking,’’
after ‘‘stalking,’’.
Page 36, strike lines 11 through 13 (and re-
designate other provisions accordingly).
Page 36, line 15, insert ‘‘and’’ after the
semicolon.
Page 36, strike lines 16 through 18 (and re-
designate other provisions accordingly).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from Missouri (Mrs. WAGNER) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Missouri.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Chair, I rise
today to urge my colleagues to support
my amendment to the Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act of
2019.
VAWA grant programs serve women
and girls, especially those in under-
served communities who are experi-
encing violence.
Sex trafficking is one such form of
violence. Victims endure horrific trau-
ma, violence, and abuse. Unfortu-
nately, there is a real gap in services
for child sex trafficking victims.
In Missouri, we struggle to find safe
and secure options for girls who are
looking to restart their lives. Amazing
nonprofits like The Covering House in
my district serve youth, along with
other organizations across the country,
but there is still a substantial unfilled
need for services.
In addition to counseling and hous-
ing, victim service providers are trying
to prevent violence by educating chil-
dren and ensuring that they never be-
come victims of sex trafficking in the
first place.
That is why programs like the Cre-
ating Hope through Outreach, Options,
Service, and Education for Children
and Youth program, CHOOSE, are so
essential.
This VAWA program ensures that the
Department of Justice can develop, ex-
pand, and strengthen victim-centered
interventions that target youth who
are victims of domestic violence, dat-
ing violence, sexual assault, stalking,
and sex trafficking.
It enables schools to provide training
to personnel on the needs of students
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.064 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3036 April 3, 2019
who are victims of trafficking, and it
develops prevention programming in
middle and high schools.
These are critical services, and this
amendment will ensure that the
CHOOSE program can continue to pro-
vide funding for programs that counter
sex trafficking, not only other forms of
violence.
We cannot unintentionally strip sex
trafficking references out of VAWA
text. Sex trafficking is a paramount
example of violence against girls and
women, and we must be careful not to
disenfranchise these victims as we leg-
islate.
I thank my colleague from Texas,
Representative SHEILA JACKSON LEE,
and others for cosponsoring my amend-
ment and working to ensure that we
have bipartisan support.
I will also work with my colleagues
in the Senate to ensure these ref-
erences are restored in the final VAWA
legislation.
Madam Chair, I urge my House col-
leagues to support my amendment and
ensure that child sex trafficking vic-
tims maintain access to critical serv-
ices, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Chair, I
claim time in opposition to the amend-
ment, although I am not opposed to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentlewoman from Texas is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Chair, I
thank Congresswoman WAGNER for her
continuing leadership. It has been a
pleasure to work with her over the
years in the House Committee on the
Judiciary on the question of human
trafficking and sex trafficking.
I am delighted to join this amend-
ment, along with Congresswoman
MALONEY from New York. We have a
long history of working on the issues of
human trafficking and sex trafficking.
Madam Chair, the International
Labor Organization estimates that
there are 40.3 million victims of human
trafficking. Twenty-five percent of
them are children; 75 percent of them
are women and girls.
It is a tragedy, but one out of seven
endangered runaways reported to the
National Center for Missing and Ex-
ploited Children were likely child sex
trafficking victims. Of those, 88 per-
cent were in the care of social services
or foster care when they ran.
From 2007 to 2017, the National
Human Trafficking Hotline has re-
ceived 34,700 sex trafficking cases in-
side the United States; and, in 2017, the
National Center for Missing and Ex-
ploited Children indicated that chil-
dren continue in 2017, again, to be sex
trafficked. The International Labor Or-
ganization, again, estimates that there
are 4.8 million people trapped in forced
sexual exploitation.
b 1615
What is necessary to know is that sex
trafficking can be a revolving door. It
is income that sex traffickers and
human traffickers use.
I am very delighted to join with Con-
gresswoman WAGNER’s amendment to
this bill dealing with violence against
women because it is an expanded bill
that answers the concerns of so many.
I am glad that this amendment will
ensure that the Creating Hope through
Outreach, Options, Service, and Edu-
cation for Children and Youth pro-
gram, the CHOOSE Children and Youth
program, can continue to be programs
that address sex trafficking.
It is important to note, in particular,
that it is answering the question of the
gap in services in our States for young
women who are at risk and who are
struggling to restart their lives. We
must ensure that, once these individ-
uals have been victimized, sex traf-
ficked, we do all we can to help them
heal and recover.
I ask all Members to join in sup-
porting this amendment, which empha-
sizes that sex trafficking is a part of
our trying to stop and stomp out for
good violence against women. I ask all
Members to support the Wagner-Jack-
son Lee-Maloney amendment.
Madam Chair, I rise in strong support of the
Wagner/Jackson Lee/Maloney Amendment to
H.R. 1585, the Violence Against Women Re-
authorization Act of 2019.
The Wagner/Jackson Lee/Maloney makes
an improvement to the bill by drawing atten-
tion to the lack of services for child sex traf-
ficking services and which draws attention to
groups like CHOOSE Children and Youth
(Creating Hope through Outreach, Options,
Service and Education for Children and Youth)
for educating and preventing sex trafficking.
Madam Chair, while we live in the richest,
most powerful country in the history of the
world, in our nation we still see the prevalence
of sex trafficking.
It is important that as we do this work be-
fore us today, we emphasize that sex traf-
ficking is also a form of violence against
women and children.
The Congress—this body—must work to en-
sure that services for sex trafficking victims
are available.
The Wagner/Jackson Lee/Maloney Amend-
ment addresses the gap in services in our
state for young women who are risk and who
are struggling to restart their lives.
Crime, and especially crimes falling within
the umbrella of offenses addressed in VAWA
are unconscionable and intolerable in a civ-
ilized society.
We must ensure that once these individuals
have been victimized, we do all we can to
help them heal and recover.
This Jackson Lee/Wagner/Maloney Amend-
ment works towards that end.
I ask all members to support the Wagner/
Jackson Lee/Maloney Amendment and I ask
thank the gentlelady from Missouri for her
work.
NOTES ON SEX TRAFFICKING
SEX TRAFFICKING IS AN EXTENSION OF HUMAN
TRAFFICKING
The International Labor Organization esti-
mates that there are 40.3 million victims of
human trafficking globally.
81 percent of them are trapped in forced
labor.
25 percent of them are children.
75 percent are women and girls.
The International Labor Organization esti-
mates that forced labor and human traf-
ficking is a $150 billion industry worldwide.
The U.S. Department of Labor has identi-
fied 148 goods from 75 countries made by
forced and child labor.
In 2017, an estimated 1 out of 7 endangered
runaways reported to the National Center
for Missing and Exploited Children were
likely child sex trafficking victims.
Of those, 88 percent were in the care of so-
cial services or foster care when they ran.
There is no official estimate of the total
number of human trafficking victims in the
U.S. Estimates indicate that the total num-
ber of victims nationally reaches into the
hundreds of thousands when estimates of
both adults and minors and sex trafficking
and labor trafficking are aggregated.
From 2007 to 2017, the National Human
Trafficking Hotline has received reports of
34,700 sex trafficking cases inside the United
States.
In 2017, the National Center for Missing &
Exploited Children estimated that 1 in 7 en-
dangered runaways reported to them were
likely sex trafficking victims.
The International Labor Organization esti-
mates that there are 4.8 million people
trapped in forced sexual exploitation glob-
ally.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Chair, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Chair, I
thank my friends across the aisle, cer-
tainly the Representative from Texas,
Ms. SHEILA JACKSON LEE, and my good
friend from New York, CAROLYN MALO-
NEY, who I know wanted to speak today
on the amendment but is held up in a
hearing that she is chairing presently.
I thank them for their bipartisan sup-
port, and I urge all my colleagues to
support this amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Chair, I
yield such time as he may consume to
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
NADLER), the chairman of the Judici-
ary Committee.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding.
I support this bipartisan amendment,
which would ensure that entities fo-
cused on addressing sex trafficking
maintain eligibility for CHOOSE
grants.
We know that sex trafficking is a se-
rious problem in the United States. At
this time, CHOOSE grants are avail-
able for the purpose of enhancing the
safety of youth and children who are
victims of or exposed to domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault,
stalking, or sex trafficking, and for
preventing future violence.
This amendment ensures that we
continue to provide critical funding to
address sex trafficking in our commu-
nities. I urge my colleagues to support
this amendment.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Chair, I
am holding up this bill, H.R. 1585. We
are very grateful for the many victims
who, once this bill is passed, will be
able to both be honored but also be pro-
tected.
At the same time, with the gentle-
woman’s help, we want to make sure
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.067 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3037
April 3, 2019
that sex trafficked victims are not left
out of important historic legislation
like H.R. 1585. With her amendment—
and I am pleased to join it with Con-
gresswoman MALONEY—we are ensuring
that sex trafficking and the victims of
sex trafficking will be heard, their
voices will be heard. More importantly,
there will be resources and programs
that will address their pain but also ad-
dress their ability to restore their
lives.
I ask my colleagues to support the
Wagner-Jackson Lee-Maloney amend-
ment to H.R. 1585, the Violence Against
Women Act.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York.
Madam Chair, I rise today in support of this
amendment.
Power and control. The tools of human traf-
fickers are the same as those of domestic
abusers.
Human trafficking and domestic violence are
not distinct crimes. They often overlap. In both
cases, it is often intimate partners who traffic
or abuse their victims. In both cases, abusers
and traffickers use emotional manipulation,
economic abuse, physical violence—all tactics
to exert power and control over their victims.
Support services for survivors need to rec-
ognize the intersections between sex traf-
ficking and domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault and stalking.
That is why this amendment from Congress-
woman WAGNER is so important.
This amendment would ensure that the Jus-
tice Department’s Creating Hope through Out-
reach, Options, Service and Education for
Children and Youth Program can continue to
include programs that address sex trafficking.
We must address both of these crimes individ-
ually and we do.
But we must also acknowledge that these
crimes can often overlap and where they over-
lap we need to address the patterns that per-
petuate this violence, in order to best serve
survivors and connect them with the resources
they need to get the help they deserve.
So I urge my colleagues to support this im-
portant amendment and thank the gentle-
woman from Missouri for all of her efforts to
combat human trafficking and domestic abuse.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. WAG-
NER).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentlewoman from Missouri will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 11 OFFERED BY MRS. WAGNER
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 11 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 15, strike lines 6 through 12, and in-
sert the following:
(G) in paragraph (16)—
(i) in subparagraph (C)(i), by striking
‘‘$20,000 in Department funds, unless the Dep-
uty Attorney General’’ and inserting
‘‘$100,000 in Department funds, unless the Di-
rector or Principal Deputy Director of the
Office on Violence Against Women, the Dep-
uty Attorney General,’’; and
(ii) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(E) INELIGIBILITY.—If the Attorney Gen-
eral finds that a recipient of grant funds
under this Act has fraudulently misused
such grant funds, after reasonable notice and
opportunity for a hearing, such recipient
shall not be eligible to receive grant funds
under this Act for up to 5 years. A misuse of
grant funds or an error that does not rise to
the level of fraud is not grounds for ineligi-
bility.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from Missouri (Mrs. WAGNER) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Missouri.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Chair, I rise
today to ask my colleagues to vote for
my amendment that will ensure great-
er transparency and accountability
when it comes to taxpayer dollars.
The Department of Justice inspector
general has found frequent misconduct,
fraud, and abuse in VAWA grant-mak-
ing. More than $7 billion in grants has
been awarded over the years, and au-
dits have revealed that too many re-
cipients are out of compliance with the
terms of these grants.
This amendment will ensure that the
Office on Violence Against Women can-
not continue to grant VAWA dollars to
organizations that are fraudulently
misusing funds. Organizations that
misuse funds will lose their eligibility
to receive VAWA grants for up to 5
years.
Errors that do not rise to the level of
fraud will not impact an organization’s
eligibility, but we must encourage
grant recipients to act with caution
and integrity. In this way, we can best
serve the women and girls that VAWA
programs are meant to empower.
I thank you for supporting justice
and services for America’s women and
children and girls, and I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on my amend-
ment and broaden access for organiza-
tions acting in compliance with hon-
esty and good faith.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment, although I am not opposed to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from New York is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I sup-
port this amendment, which would
make entities found by the Attorney
General to have fraudulently misused
VAWA grant funds ineligible to apply
for future grants for up to 5 years.
This amendment tries to guard
against the potential misuse of grant
funds, but it does so in a way that safe-
guards due process, after reasonable
notice and opportunity for a hearing.
Any misuse of funds that does not
rise to the level of fraud, or that is
merely an error, is insufficient to make
a grantee ineligible for funds and only
places a temporary, but sufficiently
lengthy, ban on receipt of funding.
Because this is a commonsense meas-
ure, I urge my colleagues to support
this amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Chair, I
thank the chairman for his leadership
and for his support of this amendment,
and I encourage all my colleagues to
support this amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. WAG-
NER).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 12 OFFERED BY MR. GRIJALVA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 12 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 131, strike line 8 and all that follows
through line 12, and insert the following:
‘‘(B)(i) committed against a victim who is
a child under the age of 18, or an elder (as
such term is defined by tribal law), including
when an offender recklessly engages in con-
duct that creates a substantial risk of death
or serious bodily injury to the victim, or
committed as described in subparagraph (A)
while the child or elder is present; and
‘‘(ii) the child or elder—
‘‘(I) resides or has resided in the same
household as the offender;
‘‘(II) is related to the offender by blood or
marriage;
‘‘(III) is related to another victim of the of-
fender by blood or marriage;
‘‘(IV) is under the care of a victim of the
offender who is an intimate partner or
former spouse; or
‘‘(V) is under the care of a victim of the of-
fender who is similarly situated to a spouse
of the victim under the domestic- or family-
violence laws of an Indian tribe that has ju-
risdiction over the Indian country where the
violence occurs.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from Arizona (Mr. GRIJALVA) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arizona.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Chair, as we
have heard over and over today, and
justifiably so, the reauthorization of
the Violence Against Women Act is
critical for women across this country.
This bill will ensure the safety of
women, especially Native American
women.
My amendment will expand the defi-
nition of domestic violence to include
violence against or witnessed by a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.069 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3038 April 3, 2019
child or elder, as defined by Tribal law.
This important amendment will allow
Tribes to ensure that perpetrators act-
ing violently toward or near children
or elders receive consequences for their
actions.
The Tulalip Tribe is one of the first
Tribes to implement the Special Do-
mestic Violence Criminal Jurisdiction
from the 2013 Violence Against Women
Act reauthorization. They immediately
experienced the implications of not
having this protection for children and
elders in their jurisdiction.
Of the 30 cases they received in Trib-
al court, 20 involved children and/or el-
ders. Although the violence impacted
the child or the elder, the Tribal court
was not able to prosecute. When the ju-
risdiction moved to the State, it did
not prosecute the remaining 20 cases in
State court. Justice was not served for
the children and/or the elders experi-
encing violence.
In 2010, the Attorney General’s report
on American Indian and Alaska Native
children exposed to violence included
the recommendation that Congress
should restore the inherent authority
of American Indian and Alaska Native
Tribes to assert jurisdiction over per-
sons who commit crimes against Amer-
ican Indian and Alaska Native chil-
dren.
This amendment is a step toward
guaranteeing that Congress keeps
American Indian and Alaska Native
children and elders safe. By passing
this amendment, Congress will restore
the inherent authority for the Tulalip
Tribe and others to fully secure the
safety of Tribal children and elders
throughout Indian Country.
I urge my colleagues to protect Na-
tive children and elders by supporting
this amendment.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition,
although I am not opposed.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Chair, I have
no other speakers, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Arizona (Mr. GRIJALVA).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 13 OFFERED BY MR. GRIJALVA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 13 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 134, strike line 3 and all that follows
through page 135, line 18, and insert the fol-
lowing:
(9) by striking subsections (f), (g), and (h)
and inserting the following:
‘‘(f) GRANTS AND REIMBURSEMENT TO TRIB-
AL GOVERNMENTS.—
‘‘(1) REIMBURSEMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General is
authorized to reimburse tribal government
authorities for expenses incurred in exer-
cising special tribal criminal jurisdiction.
‘‘(B) ELIGIBLE EXPENSES.—Eligible expenses
for reimbursement shall include—
‘‘(i) expenses incurred to arrest or pros-
ecute offenders and to detain inmates (in-
cluding costs associated with providing
health care);
‘‘(ii) expenses related to indigent defense
services; and
‘‘(iii) costs associated with probation and
rehabilitation services.
‘‘(C) PROCEDURE.—Reimbursements author-
ized pursuant to this section shall be in ac-
cordance with rules promulgated by the At-
torney General after consultation with In-
dian tribes and within one year after the
date of enactment of this Act. The rules pro-
mulgated by the Department shall set a
maximum allowable reimbursement to any
tribal government in a one year period.
‘‘(2) GRANTS.—The Attorney General may
award grants to the governments of Indian
tribes (or to authorized designees of those
governments)—
‘‘(A) to strengthen tribal criminal justice
systems to assist Indian tribes in exercising
special tribal criminal jurisdiction, includ-
ing—
‘‘(i) law enforcement (including the capac-
ity of law enforcement, court personnel, or
other non-law enforcement entities that
have no Federal or State arrest authority
agencies but have been designated by a tribe
as responsible for maintaining public safety
within its territorial jurisdiction, to enter
information into and obtain information
from national crime information databases);
‘‘(ii) prosecution;
‘‘(iii) trial and appellate courts (including
facilities construction);
‘‘(iv) probation systems;
‘‘(v) detention and correctional facilities
(including facilities construction);
‘‘(vi) alternative rehabilitation centers;
‘‘(vii) culturally appropriate services and
assistance for victims and their families; and
‘‘(viii) criminal codes and rules of criminal
procedure, appellate procedure, and evi-
dence;
‘‘(B) to provide indigent criminal defend-
ants with the effective assistance of licensed
defense counsel, at no cost to the defendant,
in criminal proceedings in which a partici-
pating tribe prosecutes—
‘‘(i) a crime of domestic violence;
‘‘(ii) a crime of dating violence;
‘‘(iii) a criminal violation of a protection
order;
‘‘(iv) a crime of sexual violence;
‘‘(v) a crime of stalking;
‘‘(vi) a crime of sex trafficking;
‘‘(vii) a crime of obstruction of justice; or
‘‘(viii) a crime of assault of a law enforce-
ment or correctional officer;
‘‘(C) to ensure that, in criminal pro-
ceedings in which a participating tribe exer-
cises special tribal criminal jurisdiction, ju-
rors are summoned, selected, and instructed
in a manner consistent with all applicable
requirements;
‘‘(D) to accord victims of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual violence,
stalking, sex trafficking, obstruction of jus-
tice, assault of a law enforcement or correc-
tional officer, and violations of protection
orders rights that are similar to the rights of
a crime victim described in section 3771(a) of
title 18, consistent with tribal law and cus-
tom; and
‘‘(E) to create a pilot project to allow up to
five Indian tribes in Alaska to implement
special tribal criminal jurisdiction.
‘‘(g) INDIAN COUNTRY DEFINED.—For pur-
poses of the pilot project described in sub-
section (f)(2)(E), the definition of ‘Indian
country’ shall include Alaska Native-owned
Townsites, Allotments, and former reserva-
tion lands acquired in fee by Alaska Native
Village Corporations pursuant to the Alaska
Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 33)
and other lands transferred in fee to Native
villages.
‘‘(h) SUPPLEMENT, NOT SUPPLANT.—
Amounts made available under this section
shall supplement and not supplant any other
Federal, State, tribal, or local government
amounts made available to carry out activi-
ties described in this section.
‘‘(i) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated
$7,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through
2024 to carry out subsection (f) and to pro-
vide training, technical assistance, data col-
lection, and evaluation of the criminal jus-
tice systems of participating tribes.
‘‘(j) USE OF FUNDS.—Not less than 25 per-
cent of the total amount of funds appro-
priated under this section in a given year
shall be used for each of the purposes de-
scribed in paragraphs (1) and (2) of sub-
section (f), with remaining funds available to
be distributed for either of the purposes de-
scribed in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection
(f), or any combination of such purposes, de-
pending on need and in consultation with In-
dian tribes.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from Arizona (Mr. GRIJALVA) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arizona.
MODIFICATION TO AMENDMENT NO. 13 OFFERED
BY MR. GRIJALVA
Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Chair, I ask
unanimous consent that my amend-
ment be modified in the form that I
have placed at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will re-
port the modification.
The Clerk read as follows:
Modification to Amendment No. 13
Offered by Mr. GRIJALVA:
The amendment is modified to read as fol-
lows:
Page 134, strike line 3 and all that follows
through page 135, line 18, and insert the fol-
lowing:
(9) by striking subsections (f), (g), and (h)
and inserting the following:
‘‘(f) GRANTS AND REIMBURSEMENT TO TRIB-
AL GOVERNMENTS.—
‘‘(1) REIMBURSEMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General is
authorized to reimburse tribal government
authorities for expenses incurred in exer-
cising special tribal criminal jurisdiction.
‘‘(B) ELIGIBLE EXPENSES.—Eligible expenses
for reimbursement shall include—
‘‘(i) expenses incurred to arrest or pros-
ecute offenders and to detain inmates (in-
cluding costs associated with providing
health care);
‘‘(ii) expenses related to indigent defense
services; and
‘‘(iii) costs associated with probation and
rehabilitation services.
‘‘(C) PROCEDURE.—Reimbursements author-
ized pursuant to this section shall be in ac-
cordance with rules promulgated by the At-
torney General after consultation with In-
dian tribes and within one year after the
date of enactment of this Act. The rules pro-
mulgated by the Department shall set a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.073 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3039
April 3, 2019
maximum allowable reimbursement to any
tribal government in a one year period.
‘‘(2) GRANTS.—The Attorney General may
award grants to the governments of Indian
tribes (or to authorized designees of those
governments)—
‘‘(A) to strengthen tribal criminal justice
systems to assist Indian tribes in exercising
special tribal criminal jurisdiction, includ-
ing—
‘‘(i) law enforcement (including the capac-
ity of law enforcement, court personnel, or
other non-law enforcement entities that
have no Federal or State arrest authority
agencies but have been designated by a tribe
as responsible for maintaining public safety
within its territorial jurisdiction, to enter
information into and obtain information
from national crime information databases);
‘‘(ii) prosecution;
‘‘(iii) trial and appellate courts (including
facilities construction);
‘‘(iv) probation systems;
‘‘(v) detention and correctional facilities
(including facilities construction);
‘‘(vi) alternative rehabilitation centers;
‘‘(vii) culturally appropriate services and
assistance for victims and their families; and
‘‘(viii) criminal codes and rules of criminal
procedure, appellate procedure, and evi-
dence;
‘‘(B) to provide indigent criminal defend-
ants with the effective assistance of licensed
defense counsel, at no cost to the defendant,
in criminal proceedings in which a partici-
pating tribe prosecutes—
‘‘(i) a crime of domestic violence;
‘‘(ii) a crime of dating violence;
‘‘(iii) a criminal violation of a protection
order;
‘‘(iv) a crime of sexual violence;
‘‘(v) a crime of stalking;
‘‘(vi) a crime of sex trafficking;
‘‘(vii) a crime of obstruction of justice; or
‘‘(viii) a crime of assault of a law enforce-
ment or correctional officer;
‘‘(C) to ensure that, in criminal pro-
ceedings in which a participating tribe exer-
cises special tribal criminal jurisdiction, ju-
rors are summoned, selected, and instructed
in a manner consistent with all applicable
requirements;
‘‘(D) to accord victims of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual violence,
stalking, sex trafficking, obstruction of jus-
tice, assault of a law enforcement or correc-
tional officer, and violations of protection
orders rights that are similar to the rights of
a crime victim described in section 3771(a) of
title 18, consistent with tribal law and cus-
tom; and
‘‘(E) to create a pilot project to allow up to
five Indian tribes in Alaska to implement
special tribal criminal jurisdiction.
‘‘(g) SUPPLEMENT, NOT SUPPLANT.—
Amounts made available under this section
shall supplement and not supplant any other
Federal, State, tribal, or local government
amounts made available to carry out activi-
ties described in this section.
‘‘(h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated
$7,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through
2024 to carry out subsection (f) and to pro-
vide training, technical assistance, data col-
lection, and evaluation of the criminal jus-
tice systems of participating tribes.
‘‘(i) USE OF FUNDS.—Not less than 25 per-
cent of the total amount of funds appro-
priated under this section in a given year
shall be used for each of the purposes de-
scribed in paragraphs (1) and (2) of sub-
section (f), with remaining funds available to
be distributed for either of the purposes de-
scribed in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection
(f), or any combination of such purposes, de-
pending on need and in consultation with In-
dian tribes.’’.
Mr. GRIJALVA (during the reading).
Madam Chair, I ask unanimous consent
that the reading of the modification be
dispensed with.
The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection
to the request of the gentleman from
Arizona?
There was no objection.
The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection
to the original request of the gen-
tleman from Arizona?
There was no objection.
The Acting CHAIR. The amendment
is modified.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arizona.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Chair, the
underlying bill will provide a historic
extension of Tribal jurisdiction and en-
sure that more Native people receive
the proper legal protections against
people who commit violence toward
them.
Unfortunately, during the historic
passage of the 2013 Violence Against
Women reauthorization, the Saginaw
Chippewa Tribe quickly realized the
cost of implementing this important
provision was pricey. Cost concerns
about implementing Tribal jurisdiction
are generally related to incarceration,
healthcare, and jury selection.
Further, a National Congress of
American Indians report found that
there are multiple implementation
costs related to incarceration,
healthcare, code development, law en-
forcement, and prosecutors. This
hinders some Tribes from imple-
menting the most important provisions
related to the Violence Against Women
Act.
Unlike States, Tribes do not have the
ability to tax for the costs related to
implementing these important provi-
sions that protect its people.
With the support of Representative
KILDEE, who represents the area of the
Saginaw Chippewa Tribe, the amend-
ment I am offering will help alleviate
the costs Tribes will incur due to the
expanded criminal jurisdiction provi-
sion.
This amendment would authorize the
Department of Justice to reimburse
Tribes that incur costs related to ar-
rest, indigent defense services, and re-
habilitation services.
Further, this amendment provides
language allowing DOJ to award grants
to improve their law enforcement, de-
tention and correctional facilities, cul-
turally appropriate services, and crimi-
nal code development.
I urge my colleagues to protect In-
dian Country from violence and sup-
port this amendment that will ease the
costs incurred by Tribes for imple-
menting this historic bill.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition,
although at this point I am not nec-
essarily opposed.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Chair, I have
no other speakers. I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
b 1630
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I do think it is interesting, for a
sovereign government, the expansion
should come out of the funds here is
the only concern I would have on this,
but other than that, I yield back the
balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment, as modified, offered
by the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
GRIJALVA).
The amendment, as modified, was
agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 14 OFFERED BY MR. EMMER
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 14 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. EMMER. Madam Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 32, after line 24, insert the following
(and conform the table of contents accord-
ingly):
SECTION 205. DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM ON
TRAUMA-INFORMED TRAINING FOR
LAW ENFORCEMENT.
Title IV of the Violent Crime Control and
Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 10101
note) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘Subtitle Q—Trauma-informed Training for
Law Enforcement
‘‘SEC. 41701. DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM ON
TRAUMA-INFORMED TRAINING FOR
LAW ENFORCEMENT.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
‘‘(1) the term ‘Attorney General’ means the
Attorney General, acting through the Direc-
tor of the Office on Violence Against Women;
‘‘(2) the term ‘covered individual’ means an
individual who interfaces with victims of do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual as-
sault, and stalking, including—
‘‘(A) an individual working for or on behalf
of an eligible entity;
‘‘(B) a school or university administrator;
and
‘‘(C) an emergency services or medical em-
ployee;
‘‘(3) the term ‘demonstration site’, with re-
spect to an eligible entity that receives a
grant under this section, means—
‘‘(A) if the eligible entity is a law enforce-
ment agency described in paragraph (4)(A),
the area over which the eligible entity has
jurisdiction; and
‘‘(B) if the eligible entity is an organiza-
tion or agency described in paragraph (4)(B),
the area over which a law enforcement agen-
cy described in paragraph (4)(A) that is
working in collaboration with the eligible
entity has jurisdiction; and
‘‘(4) the term ‘eligible entity’ means—
‘‘(A) a State, local, territorial, or Tribal
law enforcement agency; or
‘‘(B) a national, regional, or local victim
services organization or agency working in
collaboration with a law enforcement agency
described in subparagraph (A).
‘‘(b) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General
shall award grants on a competitive basis to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.036 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3040 April 3, 2019
eligible entities to carry out the demonstra-
tion program under this section by imple-
menting evidence-based or promising poli-
cies and practices to incorporate trauma-in-
formed techniques designed to—
‘‘(A) prevent re-traumatization of the vic-
tim;
‘‘(B) ensure that covered individuals use
evidence-based practices to respond to and
investigate cases of domestic violence, dat-
ing violence, sexual assault, and stalking;
‘‘(C) improve communication between vic-
tims and law enforcement officers in an ef-
fort to increase the likelihood of the success-
ful investigation and prosecution of the re-
ported crime in a manner that protects the
victim to the greatest extent possible;
‘‘(D) increase collaboration among stake-
holders who are part of the coordinated com-
munity response to domestic violence, dat-
ing violence, sexual assault, and stalking;
and
‘‘(E) evaluate the effectiveness of the
training process and content by measuring—
‘‘(i) investigative and prosecutorial prac-
tices and outcomes; and
‘‘(ii) the well-being of victims and their
satisfaction with the criminal justice proc-
ess.
‘‘(2) TERM.—The Attorney General shall
make grants under this section for each of
the first 2 fiscal years beginning after the
date of enactment of this Act.
‘‘(3) AWARD BASIS.—The Attorney General
shall award grants under this section to mul-
tiple eligible entities for use in a variety of
settings and communities, including—
‘‘(A) urban, suburban, Tribal, remote, and
rural areas;
‘‘(B) college campuses; or
‘‘(C) traditionally underserved commu-
nities.
‘‘(c) USE OF FUNDS.—An eligible entity that
receives a grant under this section shall use
the grant to—
‘‘(1) train covered individuals within the
demonstration site of the eligible entity to
use evidence-based, trauma-informed tech-
niques and knowledge of crime victims’
rights throughout an investigation into do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual as-
sault, or stalking, including by—
‘‘(A) conducting victim interviews in a
manner that—
‘‘(i) elicits valuable information about the
domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, or stalking; and
‘‘(ii) avoids re-traumatization of the vic-
tim;
‘‘(B) conducting field investigations that
mirror best and promising practices avail-
able at the time of the investigation;
‘‘(C) customizing investigative approaches
to ensure a culturally and linguistically ap-
propriate approach to the community being
served;
‘‘(D) becoming proficient in understanding
and responding to complex cases, including
cases of domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, or stalking—
‘‘(i) facilitated by alcohol or drugs;
‘‘(ii) involving strangulation;
‘‘(iii) committed by a non-stranger;
‘‘(iv) committed by an individual of the
same sex as the victim;
‘‘(v) involving a victim with a disability;
‘‘(vi) involving a male victim; or
‘‘(vii) involving a lesbian, gay, bisexual, or
transgender (commonly referred to as
‘LGBT’) victim;
‘‘(E) developing collaborative relationships
between—
‘‘(i) law enforcement officers and other
members of the response team; and
‘‘(ii) the community being served; and
‘‘(F) developing an understanding of how to
define, identify, and correctly classify a re-
port of domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, or stalking; and
‘‘(2) promote the efforts of the eligible en-
tity to improve the response of covered indi-
viduals to domestic violence, dating vio-
lence, sexual assault, and stalking through
various communication channels, such as
the website of the eligible entity, social
media, print materials, and community
meetings, in order to ensure that all covered
individuals within the demonstration site of
the eligible entity are aware of those efforts
and included in trainings, to the extent prac-
ticable.
‘‘(d) DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM TRAININGS
ON TRAUMA-INFORMED APPROACHES.—
‘‘(1) IDENTIFICATION OF EXISTING
TRAININGS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General
shall identify trainings for law enforcement
officers, in existence as of the date on which
the Attorney General begins to solicit appli-
cations for grants under this section, that—
‘‘(i) employ a trauma-informed approach to
domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, and stalking; and
‘‘(ii) focus on the fundamentals of—
‘‘(I) trauma responses; and
‘‘(II) the impact of trauma on victims of
domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, and stalking.
‘‘(B) SELECTION.—An eligible entity that
receives a grant under this section shall se-
lect one or more of the approaches employed
by a training identified under subparagraph
(A) to test within the demonstration site of
the eligible entity.
‘‘(2) CONSULTATION.—In carrying out para-
graph (1), the Attorney General shall consult
with the Director of the Office for Victims of
Crime in order to seek input from and cul-
tivate consensus among outside practi-
tioners and other stakeholders through fa-
cilitated discussions and focus groups on
best practices in the field of trauma-in-
formed care for victims of domestic violence,
dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.
‘‘(e) EVALUATION.—The Attorney General,
in consultation with the Director of the Na-
tional Institute of Justice, shall require each
eligible entity that receives a grant under
this section to identify a research partner,
preferably a local research partner, to—
‘‘(1) design a system for generating and
collecting the appropriate data to facilitate
an independent process or impact evaluation
of the use of the grant funds;
‘‘(2) periodically conduct an evaluation de-
scribed in paragraph (1); and
‘‘(3) periodically make publicly available,
during the grant period—
‘‘(A) preliminary results of the evaluations
conducted under paragraph (2); and
‘‘(B) recommendations for improving the
use of the grant funds.
‘‘(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
The Attorney General shall carry out this
section using amounts otherwise available to
the Attorney General.
‘‘(g) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to interfere
with the due process rights of any indi-
vidual.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from Minnesota (Mr. EMMER) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Minnesota.
Mr. EMMER. Madam Chair, as we
consider the Violence Against Women
Act, or VAWA, reauthorization, I offer
an amendment to allow for a dem-
onstration program that will issue
grants to promote trauma-informed
training for law enforcement and other
personnel.
The amendment is substantially
similar to the Abby Honold Act, which
has been led by bipartisan Minnesota
Members of Congress. The amendment
does not authorize new appropriations,
but merely enables existing funds to be
used for training that ultimately could
save lives and help find the perpetra-
tors of an assault.
The amendment aims to help victims
of sexual crimes, in addition to those
who have experienced other forms of
trauma, by improving the care and
treatment they receive after the event.
Specifically, the amendment will cre-
ate a voluntary grant program to train
law enforcement agencies in evidence-
based, trauma-informed interview
techniques to prevent retraumatization
of victims, improve communication be-
tween victims and law enforcement,
and ensure accurate and complete in-
formation is submitted to law enforce-
ment.
The amendment and bill is in honor
of Abby Honold, who attended the Uni-
versity of Minnesota. Abby was the vic-
tim of rape, but I know her as one of
the bravest people I have ever met for
being able to publicly share her story
and fight for changes to the law that
will help countless Americans.
During traumatic events, parts of the
brain shut down and block shocking ex-
periences, shielding the victim, but af-
fecting recollection. When searching
for evidence of criminal behavior,
many interview techniques are not de-
veloped to comfort the victim and ef-
fectively access these memories. Infor-
mation collected in the normal manner
may inhibit memory recall and accu-
racy of events and details. This often
leads to suspicion of the victim.
Thankfully, Abby was treated by a
nurse who had been trained to provide
trauma-informed techniques that al-
lowed the nurse to ask sensitive ques-
tions in a respectful way that enabled
an accurate recount of events. Nurse
Walther, who interviewed Abby, made
her feel comfortable, and by using the
trauma-informed techniques, avoided
retraumatization.
The difference that we can make for
victims by providing training for these
techniques will ensure that recovery
and healing can occur for victims of
these traumatic instances.
Abby also encountered Officer Kevin
Randolph, who went above and beyond
to help her win her case against her
perpetrator because he understood how
these techniques lead to more accurate
information and ensured prosecution.
In Minnesota alone, 2,000 women re-
port being raped or sexually assaulted
every year. Abby’s Act will help law
enforcement investigate sexual assault
cases and improve care and treatment
for victims.
The amendment establishes a pilot
program to train law enforcement, first
responders, university officials, or any
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.042 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3041
April 3, 2019
other personnel who interface with vic-
tims of sexual violence in trauma-in-
formed techniques focused on pre-
venting retraumatization of the vic-
tim, improving communication and
rapport between victims and law en-
forcement, as well as collaboration be-
tween the different entities that assist
a victim of sexual violence.
Sexual assault is a crime, and it is
vital for law enforcement to have accu-
rate and complete information to pros-
ecute it. For Abby and for the thou-
sands of victims who experience trau-
ma, this is a key part of their recovery
process, as is a compassionate response
in the immediate aftermath of an
event.
This pilot program would be an im-
portant step forward to provide better
treatment to sexual assault victims in
crisis and to make certain it is treated
like the serious crime that it is.
I am disappointed that the bill before
us today will be a partisan vote and
Republicans on the Judiciary Com-
mittee were excluded from the process,
but I offer this bipartisan amendment
as a demonstration that we can still
work together.
I also hope the Senate considers this
body’s overwhelming support for the
Abby Honold Act as it contemplates
VAWA reauthorization.
Abby has been a strong advocate for
the use of trauma-informed care by law
enforcement, and I have been fortunate
to work with her and our law enforce-
ment community on this important
legislation.
A good first step to holding those ac-
countable is ensuring law enforcement
has the tools and resources needed to
investigate these crimes.
This bill is just one step towards
solving a clear problem across our
country.
Victims of sexual assault deserve the
best possible care and the most com-
passionate response following their
trauma, and we can provide it now. We
must all work together to ensure these
crimes are treated as the heinous acts
they are, with the hope that one day
they cease altogether.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentleman from Minnesota has expired.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Chair, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment, even though I am not opposed to
it.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentlewoman from Wash-
ington is recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Chair, I am
very proud to cosponsor this bipartisan
amendment with my colleague from
Minnesota to provide access to training
on trauma-informed techniques for law
enforcement and other agencies that
respond to survivors of domestic vio-
lence and sexual assault.
Unfortunately, as you well know, de-
spite our best efforts, rape and sexual
assault continue to be underreported,
and the statistic tells us that, out of
every 1,000 rapes, 995 perpetrators will
walk free.
One thing we can do to address this is
to make sure that investigators have
training on trauma-informed tech-
niques to work with the survivors of
sexual violence so that investigators
don’t further harm survivors. This is
not just in the best interest of the sur-
vivor, but it is also to make sure that
law enforcement can hold perpetrators
accountable.
I am particularly moved by the cour-
age and the determination of Abby
Honold, the namesake of this amend-
ment, and many, many women across
my State and across the country who
have suffered the same situation as she
has.
Ms. Honold endured a brutal attack,
and then she did something truly cou-
rageous. And let me just say, Madam
Chair, that it is courageous to continue
to submit yourself to investigation
after a brutal assault. She took action
to call attention to the importance of
the trauma-informed services she re-
ceived that helped her to pursue jus-
tice, and today, her work has resulted
in this amendment to ensure that oth-
ers will be able to provide the same
kind of assistance that she received.
So as we recognize Sexual Assault
Awareness Month, I hope that my col-
leagues will support this amendment to
the reauthorization of the Violence
Against Women Act, traditionally a bi-
partisan act in this Chamber.
When Congress passed VAWA 25
years ago, it was a landmark achieve-
ment that sent a very clear message to
people living in abusive or violent situ-
ations that we saw them, that we
would stand with them. With each re-
authorization, we continue to expand
critical protections and make improve-
ments like this amendment to better
serve survivors.
Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Minnesota (Ms.
OMAR), my colleague on this side of the
aisle.
Ms. OMAR. Madam Chair, I rise
today in support of this amendment.
This amendment to the Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act
includes language of a bill that I am
proud to be an original cosponsor of
called the Abby Honold Act.
Abby is a constituent of mine, a
former student at the University of
Minnesota. A survivor of sexual as-
sault, she has been a fierce champion of
this initiative and was the driving
force behind this legislation that bears
her name.
I want to make sure that my col-
leagues support this amendment on be-
half of the thousands of victims who
experience trauma. This is a key part
of their recovery process and a crucial
response to the immediate aftermath.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Chair, we
look forward to everyone supporting
this amendment. We hope that we con-
tinue to operate in a bipartisan fashion
in this Chamber to pass not only this
amendment, but the full reauthoriza-
tion of the Violence Against Women
Act.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Minnesota (Mr. EMMER).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 15 OFFERED BY MR. QUIGLEY
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 15 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 171, insert after line 2, the following
(and conform the table of contents accord-
ingly):
SEC. 1408. REVIEW ON LINK BETWEEN SUB-
STANCE USE AND VICTIMS OF DO-
MESTIC VIOLENCE DATING VIO-
LENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, OR STALK-
ING.
Not later than 24 months after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the
Department of Health and Human Services
shall complete a review and submit a report
to Congress on whether being a victim of do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual as-
sault, or stalking increases the likelihood of
having a substance use disorder.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from Illinois (Mr. QUIGLEY) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Illinois.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Chair, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, I rise today to offer
this straightforward, commonsense
amendment that does not affect direct
spending or revenues.
My amendment requires the Sec-
retary of HHS to complete a review of
the relationship between survival of
domestic violence, dating violence, sex-
ual assault, or stalking and the likeli-
hood of developing a substance use dis-
order.
This information is vital because we
know traumatic experiences such as
domestic violence are associated with
behavioral health conditions; we know
that behavioral health conditions are
associated with substance use dis-
orders; and we know that substance use
is linked to traumatic experiences.
What we don’t know is if survivors of
domestic violence have an increased
likelihood of developing a substance
use disorder. Although the evidence ex-
ists, we have yet to conduct a com-
prehensive review of the data to make
the connection.
It is important to understand the na-
ture and impact of trauma to effec-
tively serve those who have suffered. If
the review indicates a connection, it
would help providers prevent domestic
violence survivors from developing a
substance use disorder and enable sur-
vivors to access preventative and more
comprehensive services.
This review will also give a better
understanding of the broader impacts
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.079 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3042 April 3, 2019
and effects of trauma on survivors. So-
cial stigma silences both domestic vio-
lence survivors and those suffering
from substance use disorders. We can-
not allow survivors to be silenced any
longer.
To reduce stigma, we must talk
about these issues, better educate our-
selves on the struggles of those living
with them, and let survivors know they
are not alone. By acknowledging that
there might be a connection between
domestic violence survival and sub-
stance use disorders, we can begin the
conversation and let victims know that
we are willing and able to support
them through their recovery.
Congress has a responsibility to vic-
tims and survivors. This amendment
and, more broadly, this bill is one step
toward fulfilling that responsibility.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition to
the amendment, even though I am not
opposed to it.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
FITZPATRICK).
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Chair, I
rise today in strong support of legisla-
tion introduced by myself and Rep-
resentative KAREN BASS to reauthorize
the Violence Against Women Act.
VAWA programs have provided edu-
cational tools and helped survivors and
their families get the resources they
need to protect themselves and to
begin the healing process. This should
not be a partisan issue.
b 1645
I would like to thank Congress-
woman BASS for her leadership. She is
a valued partner in this fight, and I am
grateful that we can make this bill bi-
partisan.
Across our country, Madam Chair,
millions of women and children have
been saved by the programs funded
through VAWA. Shelters, counseling,
training, and law enforcement are all
key parts of a national strategy to end
domestic violence, sexual assault, dat-
ing violence, and stalking.
In the district I represent, in Bucks
and Montgomery Counties, in Pennsyl-
vania, and in all of our districts,
VAWA programs are saving lives.
A Woman’s Place in Bucks County,
Pennsylvania, relies on VAWA funding
to save lives. Unlike some larger wom-
en’s organizations, their emergency
housing only has room for seven fami-
lies. Nonetheless, their shelter saved
150 women and children who were in
imminent danger, often fleeing for
their lives.
Another Bucks County organization,
Network of Victim Assistance, or
NOVA, has helped more than 3,600 vic-
tims of sexual assault, human traf-
ficking, stalking, and other serious
crimes. NOVA’s work to expand pre-
vention programs, which is essential to
preventing violence, is supported by
VAWA.
This bill also includes my Combat
Online Predators Act, which will in-
crease penalties for cyberstalking
against children. My constituent,
Madison Zezzo, was cyberstalked by a
then 51-year-old predator, who was
only sentenced to probation and coun-
seling. Three years later, he made con-
tact with Madison again and created a
web of social media accounts to
cyberstalk her. He was later sentenced
to between 18 months and 7 years in
prison.
From domestic violence and sexual
assault to cyberstalking, we must do
more to prevent violence and, when it
does happen, to support victims and
bring perpetrators to justice.
Madam Chair, the Violence Against
Women Act will help us do all these
things. I urge my colleagues, both
Democrat and Republican alike, to sup-
port this legislation, which will save
lives in all of our communities.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Chair, I yield
the balance of my time to the gentle-
woman from Oklahoma (Ms. KENDRA S.
HORN), an extraordinary advocate on
this issue.
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma.
Madam Chair, I thank the gentleman
from Illinois for yielding time to me to
speak on this important topic.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of this
amendment today which directs the
Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices to study the relationship between
domestic violence, dating violence, sex-
ual assault, or stalking experience and
the likelihood of developing a sub-
stance use disorder.
This information is critical. If we are
going to make smart policy, we must
take an evidence-based approach. We
must understand the nature and im-
pact of trauma to best serve those who
have suffered.
We know traumatic experiences, such
as domestic violence, are associated
with behavioral conditions, including
substance abuse; and we know that
these behavioral health conditions are
also associated with collective trauma.
The full impact of trauma is only now
beginning to be understood as tools
such as the Adverse Childhood Experi-
ences Score, or ACES, begin to inform
this.
As the gentleman from Illinois men-
tioned, broadening our understanding
will weaken stigma. Far too often, so-
cial stigma silences both domestic vio-
lence survivors and those suffering
from substance use disorders. We must
empower them, not further traumatize
them.
To reduce this stigma, we have to
continue to talk about these issues,
educate ourselves about these issues,
and support those who are struggling
with them. This amendment and, more
broadly, this bill is an important step
towards fulfilling that responsibility.
Reauthorizing the Violence Against
Women Act reaffirms and expands pro-
tections for women everywhere. It im-
proves services available to survivors,
empowers local law enforcement to
protect their communities, prevents
stalkers and abusers from obtaining
firearms, and strengthens protections
against discrimination in housing and
the workplace—because everyone, ev-
erywhere deserves a life free from
abuse.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment, so we can
better protect and treat those who
have experienced unspeakable suf-
fering, and to support the reauthoriza-
tion of the Violence Against Women
Act.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Chair, I ask
support for the amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. QUIGLEY).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 16 OFFERED BY MS. MENG
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 16 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Ms. MENG. Madam Chair, as the des-
ignee of the gentlewoman from New
Hampshire (Ms. KUSTER), I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 171, insert after line 2 the following
(and conform the table of contents accord-
ingly):
SEC. 1408. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP TO
STUDY FEDERAL EFFORTS TO COL-
LECT DATA ON SEXUAL VIOLENCE.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Attorney General shall establish an
interagency working group (in this section
referred to as the ‘‘Working Group’’) to
study Federal efforts to collect data on sex-
ual violence and to make recommendations
on the harmonization of such efforts.
(b) COMPOSITION.—The Working Group
shall be comprised of at least one representa-
tive from the following agencies, who shall
be selected by the head of that agency:
(1) The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.
(2) The Department of Education.
(3) The Department of Health and Human
Services.
(4) The Department of Justice.
(c) DUTIES.—The Working Group shall con-
sider the following:
(1) What activity constitutes different acts
of sexual violence.
(2) Whether reports that use the same
terms for acts of sexual violence are col-
lecting the same data on these acts.
(3) Whether the context which led to an act
of sexual violence should impact how that
act is accounted for in reports.
(4) Whether the data collected is presented
in a way that allows the general public to
understand what acts of sexual violence are
included in each measurement.
(5) Steps that agencies that compile re-
ports relating to sexual violence can take to
avoid double counting incidents of sexual vi-
olence.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.082 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3043
April 3, 2019
(d) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 2
years after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Working Group shall publish and
submit to Congress a report on the following:
(1) The activities of the Working Group.
(2) Recommendations to harmonize Fed-
eral efforts to collect data on sexual vio-
lence.
(3) Actions Federal agencies can take to
implement the recommendations described
in paragraph (2).
(4) Recommendations for congressional ac-
tion to implement the recommendations de-
scribed in paragraph (2).
(e) TERMINATION.—The Working Group
shall terminate 30 days after the date on
which the report is submitted pursuant to
subsection (d).
(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) HARMONIZE.—The term ‘‘harmonize’’ in-
cludes efforts to coordinate sexual violence
data collection to produce complementary
information, as appropriate, without com-
promising programmatic needs.
(2) SEXUAL VIOLENCE.—The term ‘‘sexual
violence’’ includes an unwanted sexual act
(including both contact and non-contact)
about which the Federal Government col-
lects information.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from New York (Ms. MENG) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
Ms. MENG. Madam Chair, I rise
today in strong support of Congress-
woman KUSTER’s bipartisan amend-
ment that calls on key Federal agen-
cies to harmonize their sexual violence
surveys and reporting systems.
This amendment was inspired by a
Government Accountability Office
study that found Federal agencies en-
gaged in collecting data on sexual vio-
lence are using different terminology
for the same types of sex crimes, and
these crimes are being categorized in
dissimilar ways.
As one example, an act some Federal
surveys identified as rape is considered
‘‘nonconsensual sex acts’’ or ‘‘sexual
coercion’’ in others.
For another survey, attempted non-
consensual sex acts are not specifically
included in the definition of ‘‘non-
consensual sex acts’’ in the survey,
even though they are counted in over-
arching measurement of this behavior.
These surveys and reporting systems
are important, but their ambiguities
and inconsistencies are very problem-
atic and need to be corrected.
Ms. KUSTER’s amendment requires
four Federal agencies that conduct
eight critical sexual violence surveys
to form a working group to help im-
prove coordination and develop clearer
sexual violence terminology and cat-
egorization. This working group will
then complete a report identifying the
internal steps and congressional action
that can be taken to address this issue.
I know Ms. KUSTER is proud that this
amendment is bipartisan, and she has
asked me to extend her thanks to our
colleagues, Representatives TURNER,
SPEIER, MORELLE, and RASKIN, for join-
ing her to introduce it for consider-
ation within this landmark legislation
to reauthorize the Violence Against
Women Act.
Additionally, she is grateful to House
Judiciary Committee leadership for
their support, and to Senators McCas-
kill and JOHNSON for shepherding a
similar bill through the Senate last
year.
Madam Chair, we know the #MeToo
movement continues to shed a light on
the disturbing prevalence of sexual vio-
lence in our country. For survivors, it
has been a powerful and moving re-
minder that they are not alone. For all
of us, it has been a wake-up call that
the status quo is unacceptable and will
not be tolerated anymore.
In order to fully understand the
scope of the challenge we face, we need
reliable, transparent data. The Federal
Government has a critical role to play
to that end. We have tremendous con-
fidence that better communication
amongst these agencies, coupled with
thoughtfully harmonized terminology
and categorization, will yield more ac-
curate data. Armed with that knowl-
edge, we can better prevent and end the
scourge of sexual violence.
Madam Chair, I urge support of Ms.
KUSTER’s amendment, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition,
although I am not opposed to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. MENG. Madam Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from New York (Ms. MENG).
The amendment was agreed to.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings will
now resume on those amendments
printed in part B of House Report 116–
32 on which further proceedings were
postponed, in the following order:
Amendment No. 1 by Mr. JEFFRIES of
New York.
Amendment No. 2 by Ms. SCANLON of
Pennsylvania.
Amendment No. 7 by Ms. WATERS of
California.
Amendment No. 10 by Mrs. WAGNER
of Missouri.
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the minimum time for any electronic
vote after the first vote in this series.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. JEFFRIES
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on amendment No. 1 offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
JEFFRIES) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 363, noes 67,
not voting 7, as follows:
[Roll No. 147]
AYES—363
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Balderson
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Graves (MO)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Pallone
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.040 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3044 April 3, 2019
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Young
NOES—67
Abraham
Allen
Amash
Babin
Baird
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Brooks (AL)
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
DesJarlais
Duncan
Estes
Ferguson
Gaetz
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green (TN)
Grothman
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Hunter
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Lesko
Loudermilk
Massie
McClintock
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mooney (WV)
Norman
Palazzo
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rose, John W.
Roy
Scalise
Scott, Austin
Steube
Walker
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wright
Yoho
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—7
Holding
McEachin
Payne
Radewagen
Rooney (FL)
Rutherford
Ryan
b 1723
Mr. GOODEN, Mrs. MILLER, Messrs.
GAETZ, JOHNSON of South Dakota,
CLINE, BUDD, JOHN W. ROSE of Ten-
nessee, GROTHMAN, ABRAHAM, and
LOUDERMILK changed their vote from
‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
Messrs. PALMER, REED, TIPTON,
HIGGINS of Louisiana, MAST, and
MCHENRY changed their vote from
‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Mr. HOLDING. Madam Chair, I was inad-
vertently detained during roll call No. 147. Had
I been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on
rollcall No. 147.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MS. SCANLON
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms.
SCANLON) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 394, noes 36,
not voting 7, as follows:
[Roll No. 148]
AYES—394
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
NOES—36
Amash
Babin
Banks
Biggs
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Cline
Duncan
Gaetz
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Green (TN)
Harris
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hunter
Jordan
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Lesko
Massie
Mast
McClintock
Mitchell
Palazzo
Ratcliffe
Roy
Steube
Weber (TX)
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—7
Bishop (UT)
McEachin
Payne
Radewagen
Rooney (FL)
Rutherford
Ryan
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1729
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MS. WATERS
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) on which further proceedings
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.038 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3045
April 3, 2019
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 258, noes 173,
not voting 6, as follows:
[Roll No. 149]
AYES—258
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Bacon
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Collins (NY)
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walden
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—173
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gibbs
Gohmert
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Walberg
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—6
McEachin
Payne
Radewagen
Rooney (FL)
Rutherford
Ryan
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1735
Mr. CARTER of Georgia changed his
vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 10 OFFERED BY MRS. WAGNER
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Missouri (Mrs. WAG-
NER) on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 429, noes 0,
not voting 8, as follows:
[Roll No. 150]
AYES—429
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.090 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3046 April 3, 2019
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—8
Courtney
Larson (CT)
McEachin
Payne
Radewagen
Rooney (FL)
Rutherford
Ryan
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1743
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 17 OFFERED BY MS. MENG
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. MALINOWSKI).
It is now in order to consider amend-
ment No. 17 printed in part B of House
Report 116–32.
Ms. MENG. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 145, line 19, insert after ‘‘parent’’ the
following: ‘‘, and such classes shall be made
available to prisoners with limited English
proficiency in compliance with Title VI of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from New York (Ms. MENG) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
Ms. MENG. Mr. Chair, my amend-
ment would ensure that incarcerated,
pregnant prisoners who are primary
caretaker parents and who have lim-
ited English proficiency will have ac-
cess to parenting classes.
Mr. Chair, we know that at the end of
2016 there were over 111,000 women in
prisons across our country. That is a
nearly 750 percent increase from 1980.
Women are the fastest growing popu-
lation of incarcerated individuals in
our country.
Our Nation has 4 percent of the
world’s female population, but 30 per-
cent of its female incarcerated popu-
lation.
We also know that women of color
are significantly overrepresented in
our criminal justice system. In fact,
two-thirds of women in jail are women
of color.
Additionally, a recent study pub-
lished just 2 weeks ago in the American
Journal of Public Health found that,
during their 1-year study of rates of
pregnancy and outcomes among women
in prison in 22 States and the Federal
system, almost 1,400 pregnant women
were admitted to prison.
Given the intersection of these data
points, my amendment ensures that
parenting classes be accessible to those
incarcerated women with limited
English proficiency.
The Bureau of Prisons already pro-
vides certain parenting classes for
pregnant incarcerated individuals.
They include the Mother and Infants
Nursing Together, MINT, program; and
the Residential Parenting Program.
The MINT program teaches parenting
skills to facilitate mother-child bond-
ing and provides the tools to help build
a stable home environment upon re-
lease.
The Residential Parenting Program
at the Washington State Department
of Corrections allows Bureau of Prison
incarcerated women and their infants
to participate in the program.
Studies show that these programs are
significant for incarcerated females
and their families, as they can play im-
portant roles in successful reentry into
society.
Under my amendment, all pregnant
incarcerated women or incarcerated
moms will be able to better provide for
their children no matter what language
they speak.
The BOP’s incarcerated female popu-
lation is incredibly diverse, with many
ethnicities and many foreign countries
represented, but no one should be de-
nied the chance to be the best parent
they can be simply because they are
non-English speaking.
Mr. Chair, I thank my good friend
Congresswoman KAREN BASS as well as
Congressman FITZPATRICK for their
leadership in shepherding this land-
mark legislation.
The 2019 reauthorization of the Vio-
lence Against Women Act responds to
our Nation’s crisis of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault,
and stalking.
Mr. Chair, I urge support for my
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I rise in opposition to the amend-
ment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
am not necessarily opposed to the goal
of the amendment. In fact, I under-
stand the amendment. I appreciate the
gentlewoman bringing it.
I have supported similar programs in
the FIRST STEP Act. The thing here is
that this amendment is not necessary
because, in the underlying bill, it al-
ready provides for parenting classes
and resources.
I appreciate the gentlewoman bring-
ing it. I don’t necessarily have a prob-
lem with it, except it is already there.
So, offering this amendment is fine,
but I just, at this point, would just say
it is already there.
I have supported similar programs
before. I appreciate the gentlewoman’s
concern in this, and we would agree on
that.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. MENG. Mr. Chairman, we just
want to make sure that no one is de-
nied the chance to bond with their
newborn or child simply because they
don’t speak the language.
This amendment ensures compliance
with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, which prohibits discrimination on
the basis of race, color, and national
origin in programs and activities re-
ceiving Federal financial assistance.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, again, understanding the con-
cerns, all this is already, frankly, cov-
ered. It is covered in the underlying
bill, but it is also covered in other pro-
grams.
In going through some of these—and
I know we have got a couple more—in
some of these amendments, anything
that takes funding away that would go
from regular programs would be of con-
cern, but I am happy to work with my
colleagues to address these issues in
other areas. I just don’t think VAWA,
probably, is the best way, but I appre-
ciate the gentlewoman’s concern.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from New York (Ms. MENG).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 18 OFFERED BY MS. MENG
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 18 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.049 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3047
April 3, 2019
Ms. MENG. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 153, line 25, strike ‘‘and’’ at the end.
Page 153, after line 25, insert the following
(and redesignate other provisions accord-
ingly):
(F) develop tools to communicate par-
enting program availability and eligibility
criteria to each employee of the Bureau of
Prisons and each pregnant inmate to ensure
that each pregnant inmate in the custody of
a Bureau of Prisons facility understands the
resources available to such inmate; and
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from New York (Ms. MENG) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
Ms. MENG. Mr. Chair, this amend-
ment would ensure that our Federal
prison develops tools to communicate
parenting program availability and eli-
gibility criteria to each employee of
the Bureau of Prisons and each preg-
nant incarcerated woman so that each
of these women in the custody of a Bu-
reau of Prisons facility understands
the resources available to them.
Mr. Chair, we know that women are
the fastest growing population in the
criminal justice system. Only 5 percent
of the world’s female population lives
in the U.S., but they account for nearly
30 percent of the world’s incarcerated
women. That is an injustice to not only
those incarcerated but to their fami-
lies, our economy, and our society as a
whole.
According to Prison Policy Initia-
tive, 80 percent of the women who will
go to jail this year are moms, including
nearly 150,000 women who are pregnant
when they are admitted, and many of
these women are the primary caretaker
of their family.
This means that the impact of their
incarceration reaches far beyond the
prison system. As we incarcerate
women, we are also incarcerating their
families.
Currently, the BOP does offer some
programs to women who are moms or
soon-to-be mothers. Mothers and In-
fants Nursing Together, otherwise
known as MINT, is offered to moms
who are pregnant at the time of com-
mitment. Participating mothers can
enroll in pre- and postnatal classes on
childbirth, parenting, and coping
skills. This program offers the chance
for mothers to acquire parenting skills
and bond with their infant after birth.
The Residential Parenting Program
offered by the Washington State De-
partment of Corrections’ Residential
Parenting Program gives its partici-
pants and their infants the opportunity
to reside in the minimum security unit
for up to 30 months after birth.
Mr. Chair, these programs are impor-
tant resources to pregnant mothers
and parents who are incarcerated. In
fact, participants of the MINT program
have reported that the program has
helped them learn important parenting
skills and develop a bond with their in-
fants.
However, the September 2018 Depart-
ment of Justice’s OIG review of the
Federal Bureau of Prisons’ manage-
ment of its female inmate population
found that BOP’s pregnancy programs
were underutilized.
Between fiscal years 2012 and 2016,
there were 951 pregnant incarcerated
women in BOP’s custody, 558 of whom
were in institutions designed to house
sentenced inmates. Of these 558 sen-
tenced pregnant inmates, they esti-
mate that only 204 participated in
MINT or the Residential Parenting
Program. That is, only 37 percent were
in these parenting and pregnancy pro-
grams.
The reasons were varied. Incarcer-
ated mothers who may be eligible for
the programs are often not identified
as being eligible. While social workers
are responsible for informing inmates
of these opportunities, social worker
positions often remain vacant.
Many staff did not fully understand
the eligibility criteria for the Mothers
and Infants Nursing Together program,
and, even more surprising, some staff
were entirely unaware of these pro-
grams’ existence.
These are valuable programs that
need to be reaching more people. This
amendment directs the Bureau of Pris-
ons to develop tools to better commu-
nicate the availability of these pro-
grams and their eligibility criteria to
inmates. With these improvements, in-
carcerated individuals will be empow-
ered to better utilize the resources
made available to them.
Mr. Chair, I urge support for the
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
b 1800
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
claim the time in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair,
again, I have been on this side, and I
would love to see more cooperation, es-
pecially since this is one of the areas I
do believe, Mr. Chair, we can actually
have agreement on. The chairman and
I have talked about this a great deal,
and others, members of our Judiciary
Committee.
The FIRST STEP Act, criminal jus-
tice reform is something that I have
been working on for many years. I
think the issue of women incarceration
is definitely something that needs to
be looked at.
Again, my concern with this program
is the diversion of dollars that go
through these programs to programs
that already exist, and I am not sure
how we are prioritizing these anymore.
Even the numbers given were based
over a number-of-years period, not a
single-year period.
When we were doing the FIRST
STEP Act and doing some of the incar-
ceration numbers, these numbers were
a lot lower in the Federal prison of
those actually pregnant at the time.
So again, I don’t, by any means, de-
mean or try to talk badly about an
amendment in the sense that it is not
intended well. I think the problem is
the underlying issues are already
there. The underlying stuff is there. I
appreciate her bringing that out. We
just disagree that this would be the
place to do this.
There are other places we could work
on this, and I think criminal justice re-
form is a great place to put this. I do
commend the gentlewoman for bring-
ing it.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. MENG. Mr. Chair, I appreciate
the gentleman’s comments.
Again, only 37 percent of pregnant in-
mates utilize these programs. I think
that it is very common sense to make
sure that more people are aware of
these programs, both staff employees
and those who are incarcerated.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from New York.
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 19 OFFERED BY MS. MENG
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 19 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Ms. MENG. Mr. Chairman, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 145, line 21, insert after ‘‘training’’
the following: ‘‘, including cultural com-
petency training,’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from New York (Ms. MENG) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
Ms. MENG. Mr. Chair, my amend-
ment would ensure that cultural com-
petency training is included in trauma
screening trainings provided to correc-
tional officers and each Bureau of Pris-
ons employee, including instructors
and healthcare professionals.
Estimates suggest that as many as 90
percent of incarcerated women have
experienced some sort of trauma such
as interpersonal or sexual violence in
their lives. Female inmates are more
likely to have been the victims of di-
rect violence, repeated sexual violence,
and intimate partner violence. We also
know that trauma is experienced in dif-
ferent ways, depending on the individ-
ual’s gender identity, culture, and past
experiences.
The BOP’s incarcerated female popu-
lation is incredibly diverse, with many
ethnicities, approximately 30 religions,
and women from all 50 States and
many foreign countries represented.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.096 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3048 April 3, 2019
Studies show that trauma treatment
programs should be administered and
facilitated during the first 12 months of
the incarcerated individual’s sentence
so as to maximize the benefits of these
programs.
Research also shows that the effects
of trauma manifest themselves dif-
ferently for incarcerated women and
men. This manifestation is further
compounded by the individual’s cul-
tural background.
Incarcerated individuals with limited
English proficiency have unique chal-
lenges in interaction with correctional
officers. This is also true for LGBT in-
carcerated individuals who have expe-
rienced injustice and violence in very
specific ways.
In order to address the past trauma
of inmates, the BOP has tried to adopt
a ‘‘trauma-informed correctional care
approach.’’ Under this method, the ac-
tions of staff are centered on the un-
derstanding that trauma is real and
prevalent, and opportunities to avoid
retraumatizing inmates are an oppor-
tunity for healing.
This approach also includes several
principles which seek to ensure the
psychological and emotional safety of
those incarcerated individuals and
staff, and use communication methods
that avoid triggering memories of past
trauma.
And yet testimony from formerly in-
carcerated women illustrates that cor-
rection staff in women’s facilities still
often fail to receive trauma-informed
and gender-responsive training, let
alone culturally competent training.
Correctional officers, healthcare pro-
fessionals, and other staff members
must be adequately trained on methods
of trauma-informed care that address
the needs of incarcerated individuals.
The trauma screenings must equip
each BOP employee to be mindful of
the unique culturally rooted trauma of
incarcerated individuals. A better un-
derstand of these needs allows correc-
tional officers and instructors to pro-
vide the most effective care possible.
Such training would ensure that cor-
rectional staff respond to incarcerated
individuals in productive and impactful
ways.
In other words, these officials will be
able to provide trauma-informed care
to those who have limited English pro-
ficiency, come from diverse back-
grounds, or live with disabilities, re-
gardless of gender, sexual orientation,
or gender identity.
The dignity of an incarcerated indi-
vidual must be honored and upheld,
and ensuring the proper training of em-
ployees to interact with them would be
a significant first step.
I urge support for the amendment,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
claim the time in opposition, but I am
not necessarily opposed.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. I reserve
the balance of my time.
Ms. MENG. Mr. Chair, I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from New York (Ms. MENG).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 20 OFFERED BY MS. PLASKETT
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 20 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Chair, I rise in
support of my amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 29, strike lines 3 through 7, and insert
the following:
SEC. 201. SEXUAL ASSAULT SERVICES PROGRAM.
Section 41601 of the Violent Crime Control
and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C.
12511) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(4), by striking ‘‘0.25
percent’’ and inserting ‘‘0.5 percent’’; and
(2) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ‘‘2014
through 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘2020 through
2024’’.
Page 79, line 19, strike ‘‘and’’.
Page 79, line 21, strike the period at the
end and insert ‘‘; and’’.
Page 79, insert after line 21 the following:
(C) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking ‘‘0.25
percent’’ and inserting ‘‘0.5 percent’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from the Virgin Islands (Ms. PLASKETT)
and a Member opposed each will con-
trol 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from the Virgin Islands.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Chair, the Vio-
lence Against Women Act is the cor-
nerstone of our Nation’s response to
domestic violence, sexual assault, dat-
ing violence, and stalking. VAWA’s
community response model helps abuse
victims find safety and receive serv-
ices, while holding thousands of per-
petrators accountable for their actions.
I would like to commend Congress-
woman KAREN BASS, Congresswoman
SHEILA JACKSON LEE, and leadership for
their commitment to making this leg-
islation a priority of this Congress.
Mr. Chair, the U.S. territories, in-
cluding my district of the U.S. Virgin
Islands, along with Puerto Rico, Guam,
the Northern Mariana Islands, and
American Samoa, are eligible for the
Violence Against Women Act programs
under the Departments of Justice and
Health and Human Services.
For example, the Sexual Assault
Services Formula Grant authorized
under VAWA provides funding to sup-
port rape crisis centers and assist indi-
viduals who have been sexually as-
saulted. The Office on Violence Against
Women awards no less than 1.5 percent
of the total amount appropriated for
the program to each State, the District
of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. The Vir-
gin Islands, American Samoa, Guam,
and the Northern Mariana Islands are
awarded a base amount of 1 quarter of
1 percent of the total appropriation.
In fiscal years 2017–2018, the smaller
territories each received just $60,000 in
funding under the Sexual Assault Serv-
ices Formula Program. My amendment
would double the minimum amount
made available to these U.S. territories
under the program. This funding is
sorely needed at this time.
According to mental health profes-
sionals in the Virgin Islands, a recent
increase in domestic violence cases can
partially be attributed to the residual
stress of the disastrous hurricanes of
2017. Even before this uptick, however,
the territories were massively under-
equipped to shelter and protect the vic-
tims of violence, and the situation has
only worsened since.
Mr. Chair, my amendment would
similarly double the minimum amount
made available to the small territories
for transitional housing services, in-
cluding housing for victims for whom
emergency shelter services are unavail-
able or insufficient and to move indi-
viduals into permanent housing.
In the Virgin Islands, assistance for
emergency and transitional housing is
crucially important, as the territory
has seen housing costs skyrocket since
the aforementioned disasters. Without
this assistance, many women have no
hope of escaping life-threatening situa-
tions.
There is currently one domestic vio-
lence and abuse program on St. Thom-
as offering a hotline and emergency
shelter. On the island of St. Croix,
there is one program which offers a
hotline and emergency shelter to vic-
tims.
Undeniably, there is a need for more
funding to provide additional services.
This amendment takes a positive step
towards addressing the additional fund-
ing needs to adequately assist and pro-
tect women and children of the Virgin
Islands and other territories who lived
through the horror of violence this bill
seeks to protect them from.
I would like to acknowledge and
thank the Women’s Coalition and the
Virgin Islands Domestic Violence and
Sexual Assault Council on St. Croix
and the Family Resource Center on St.
Thomas for their passionate and con-
tinued work to provide services and
training on prevention to the victims
of abuse and their families.
I would also like to acknowledge and
thank my colleague across the aisle,
Congresswoman AUMUA AMATA COLE-
MAN RADEWAGEN of American Samoa,
for cosponsoring this amendment to
improve services for women and chil-
dren in the U.S. island territories.
I urge my colleagues to support my
amendment.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
claim the time in opposition, although
I am not opposed.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentlewoman
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.100 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3049
April 3, 2019
from Puerto Rico (Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN).
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of the
bipartisan amendment presented by my
friends STACEY PLASKETT and AMATA
RADEWAGEN.
As my friend just mentioned, the
smaller territories are facing a chal-
lenge in the limited funds they receive
to address such a large and horrific
issue. Federal funds to fight violence
against women and support survivors
cannot be based on the ZIP Code or
where you live. I do believe that any
kind of violence must be addressed, re-
gardless of the State or the territory
the people are living in, giving the sur-
vivors the same access to services,
intervention, and assistance.
In the fiscal years 2017 and 2018, these
four territories—we are talking about
the Northern Marianas, Virgin Islands,
American Samoa, and Guam—received
less than $60,000 to aid victims of do-
mestic violence; and, simply put, this
was not enough.
I am speaking also on behalf of my
friend, AMATA RADEWAGEN, for Amer-
ican Samoa. And I do say that, as more
women step out of the shadows to seek
the assistance they need, it is our job
in the Federal Government to be able
to provide the tools and resources to
the organizations and, more impor-
tantly, to the victims themselves.
Congress must rework the formula
grant to allow these four territories ac-
cess to additional funds. I encourage
all my colleagues to support this
amendment, and I am supporting the
amendment as well.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Chair, I just
want to thank my colleague and my
good friend—indeed, my sister—from
the neighboring island of Puerto Rico
for her support of this legislation and,
as a member of the larger island,
speaking on behalf of the smaller is-
lands and territories.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from the Virgin Islands (Ms.
PLASKETT).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 21 OFFERED BY MR. BERA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 21 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. BERA. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 28, insert after line 24 the following:
SEC. 108. ENHANCING CULTURALLY SPECIFIC
SERVICES FOR VICTIMS OF DOMES-
TIC VIOLENCE, DATING VIOLENCE,
SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND STALKING.
Section 121(a) of the Violence Against
Women and Department of Justice Reauthor-
ization Act of 2005 (34 U.S.C. 20124(a)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZATION OF APPRO-
PRIATIONS.—In addition to the amounts made
available under paragraph (1), there are au-
thorized to be appropriated to carry out this
section $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2024.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from California (Mr. BERA) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. BERA. Mr. Chair, I rise today to
offer an amendment to H.R. 1585, the
Violence Against Women Reauthoriza-
tion Act.
My amendment is simple. It would
increase the authorized funding level
for grants that support the develop-
ment of culturally specific services for
victims of domestic violence, sexual as-
sault, and abuse.
Domestic violence is a devastating
reality for many women, and this is
particularly the case in our AAPI com-
munities. A survey done in 2015 esti-
mated that 40 to 60 percent of AAPI
women experience physical or sexual
violence by an intimate partner in
their lifetime.
However, the unfortunate stigma of
these events within the AAPI commu-
nity means that a lot of these sur-
vivors do not seek help afterwards or
even report these incidents in the first
place.
b 1815
Yet when I think about my own com-
munity, the South Asian community
and Native American community, we
have had some devastating cases.
You have generational divides here
where there is an older generation that
doesn’t allow folks to talk about this.
You have arranged marriages where a
bride may travel thousands of miles
and have no family resources, have no
ability to talk about it.
We have got to address this issue. We
have got to make it okay for folks to
come out of the shadows.
That is why, while it is important to
expand access to these services, it is
just as critical that the person can feel
comfortable seeking out these services.
Often, that means they are able to get
help from someone who looks like
them and understands their cultural
background.
Providing these resources in a cul-
turally appropriate context can help
survivors feel supported and heard.
My amendment would increase the
funding for grants that support organi-
zations that provide critical services
and resources to communities of color.
Lastly, I want to thank my col-
league, Congresswoman KAREN BASS,
for her work on this reauthorization. I
am pleased that we have the oppor-
tunity to strengthen these programs.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support my amendment and support
the underlying bill, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
rise in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Georgia is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair,
again, I appreciate the gentleman’s
concern.
My concern is that the underlying
bill already addresses this with suffi-
cient funding. This amendment or any-
thing like it was not offered in com-
mittee and not brought up in the dis-
cussions of this.
I don’t doubt the sincerity of the
need in this, but we do believe that the
underlying bill would cover it, so for
that reason, I would oppose it.
I appreciate the gentleman’s concern,
and I am sure there are other ways
that we could work it out, but we do
believe the bill itself would cover that.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BERA. Mr. Chairman, I am pre-
pared to close.
My amendment would increase sup-
port for communities of color who face
domestic and sexual violence in our
country and allow them to access crit-
ical support services in a culturally ap-
propriate context.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support my amendment and the under-
lying bill, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. BERA).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 22 OFFERED BY MR. GALLEGO
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 22 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. GALLEGO. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 136, insert after line 9 the following
(and amend the table of contents accord-
ingly):
SEC. 905. REPORT ON THE RESPONSE OF LAW EN-
FORCEMENT AGENCIES TO REPORTS
OF MISSING OR MURDERED INDI-
ANS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COVERED DATABASE.—The term ‘‘covered
database’’ means—
(A) the database of the National Crime In-
formation Center;
(B) the Combined DNA Index System;
(C) the Next Generation Identification Sys-
tem; and
(D) any other database or system of a law
enforcement agency under which a report of
a missing or murdered Indian may be sub-
mitted, including—
(i) the Violent Criminal Apprehension Pro-
gram; or
(ii) the National Missing and Unidentified
Persons System.
(2) INDIAN.—The term ‘‘Indian’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 4 of the
Indian Self-Determination and Education
Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
(3) INDIAN COUNTRY.—The term ‘‘Indian
country’’ has the meaning given the term in
section 1151 of title 18, United States Code.
(4) LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.—The term
‘‘law enforcement agency’’ means a Federal,
State, local, or Tribal law enforcement agen-
cy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.102 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3050 April 3, 2019
(5) MISSING OR MURDERED INDIAN.—The
term ‘‘missing or murdered Indian’’ means
any Indian who is—
(A) reported missing in Indian country or
any other location; or
(B) murdered in Indian country or any
other location.
(6) NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘noti-
fication system’’ means—
(A) the Criminal Justice Information Net-
work;
(B) the AMBER Alert communications net-
work established under subtitle A of title III
of the PROTECT Act (34 U.S.C. 20501 et seq.);
and
(C) any other system or public notification
system that relates to a report of a missing
or murdered Indian, including any State,
local, or Tribal notification system.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this section, the
Comptroller General of the United States
shall submit to the Committee on Indian Af-
fairs of the Senate and the Committee on
Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives a comprehensive report that in-
cludes—
(1) a review of—
(A) each law enforcement agency that has
jurisdiction over missing or murdered Indi-
ans and the basis for that jurisdiction;
(B) the response procedures, with respect
to a report of a missing or murdered Indian,
of—
(i) the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
(ii) the Bureau of Indian Affairs; and
(iii) any other Federal law enforcement
agency responsible for responding to or in-
vestigating a report of a missing or mur-
dered Indian;
(C) each covered database and notification
system;
(D) Federal interagency cooperation and
notification policies and procedures related
to missing or murdered Indians;
(E) the requirements of each Federal law
enforcement agency relating to notifying
State, local, or Tribal law enforcement agen-
cies after the Federal law enforcement agen-
cy receives a report of a missing or murdered
Indian; and
(F) the public notification requirements of
law enforcement agencies relating to miss-
ing or murdered Indians;
(2) recommendations and best practices re-
lating to improving cooperation between and
response policies of law enforcement agen-
cies relating to missing and murdered Indi-
ans; and
(3) recommendations relating to—
(A) improving how—
(i) covered databases address instances of
missing or murdered Indians, including by
improving access to, integrating, and im-
proving the sharing of information between
covered databases; and
(ii) notification systems address instances
of missing or murdered Indians, including by
improving access to, integrating, and im-
proving the sharing of information between
notification systems;
(B) social, educational, economic, and any
other factor that may contribute to an In-
dian becoming a missing or murdered Indian;
and
(C) legislation to reduce the likelihood
that an Indian may become a missing or
murdered Indian.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from Arizona (Mr. GALLEGO) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arizona.
Mr. GALLEGO. Mr. Chair, my
amendment to the Violence Against
Women Act shines a light on a crisis
that has been ignored for too long by
this body: the crisis of missing and
murdered indigenous women.
In Indian Country, American Indians
and Alaska Native women experience
murder rates ten times the national
average.
One study found that there were 5,712
reported cases of missing indigenous
women in 2016.
In reality, the numbers are even
worse than this, because indigenous
women are often underrepresented in
national and local data.
Just one example of the thousands of
heartbreaking cases of missing and
murdered women and girls is Ashlynne
Mike, an 11-year-old Navajo girl.
In 2016, Ashlynne and her 9-year-old
brother, Ian, were tricked into accept-
ing a ride home from a stranger while
playing after school on the Navajo Res-
ervation.
When Ashlynne and Ian did not re-
turn home, her family contacted the
authorities.
Ian was eventually found a few hours
later wandering on the side of a road.
Friends and family members then
mobilized a search party for Ashlynne
and spread the news of her abduction
through texts and social media. How-
ever, because of the jurisdictional
issues, an official AMBER Alert wasn’t
issued until 12 hours after her dis-
appearance.
According to a study on children ab-
ductions by the Washington State At-
torney General’s Office, 76 percent of
kidnapped children are killed within
the first 3 hours.
Eventually, Ashlynne’s body was
found by family members near a dirt
road.
Indigenous communities are demand-
ing action on this crisis and justice for
Native women and girls like Ashlynne.
That is why last month, I was proud
to hold the first ever hearing on miss-
ing and murdered indigenous women in
the Subcommittee for Indigenous Peo-
ples of the United States.
That is why today, I am proud to in-
troduce this amendment as a first step
towards solutions.
We know the factors exacerbating
this crisis are many. They include lack
of resources, lack of coordination be-
tween law enforcement agencies, and
jurisdictional challenges within our
criminal justice system.
My amendment would drill down on
the nature and scope of these issues, so
that we can take direct legislative ac-
tion to fix them. It will give us the
tools to give Tribes the resources and
support they need to combat horrific
violence directed at their communities.
This amendment is identical to the
bipartisan Studying the Missing and
Murdered Indian Crisis Act that I in-
troduced earlier this week and that
Senator TESTER has introduced in the
Senate.
After hearing Ashlynne’s story and
knowing that there are thousands of
women and girls who have suffered and
died as a result of this crisis, I am sure
that my colleagues will agree: Silence
is not an option. Inaction is not an op-
tion.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support this amendment. I yield back
the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Arizona (Mr. GALLEGO).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 23 OFFERED BY MS. CLARK OF
MASSACHUSETTS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 23 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts. Mr.
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Add, at the end of the bill, the following
(and conform the table of contents accord-
ingly):
TITLE XV—CYBERCRIME ENFORCEMENT
SEC. 1501. LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT GRANTS
FOR ENFORCEMENT OF
CYBERCRIMES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the avail-
ability of appropriations, the Attorney Gen-
eral shall award grants under this section to
States and units of local government for the
prevention, enforcement, and prosecution of
cybercrimes against individuals.
(b) APPLICATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—To request a grant under
this section, the chief executive officer of a
State or unit of local government shall sub-
mit an application to the Attorney General
within 90 days after the date on which funds
to carry out this section are appropriated for
a fiscal year, in such form as the Attorney
General may require. Such application shall
include the following:
(A) A certification that Federal funds
made available under this section will not be
used to supplant State or local funds, but
will be used to increase the amounts of such
funds that would, in the absence of Federal
funds, be made available for law enforcement
activities.
(B) An assurance that, not fewer than 30
days before the application (or any amend-
ment to the application) was submitted to
the Attorney General, the application (or
amendment) was submitted for review to the
governing body of the State or unit of local
government (or to an organization des-
ignated by that governing body).
(C) An assurance that, before the applica-
tion (or any amendment to the application)
was submitted to the Attorney General—
(i) the application (or amendment) was
made public; and
(ii) an opportunity to comment on the ap-
plication (or amendment) was provided to
citizens and to neighborhood or community-
based organizations, to the extent applicable
law or established procedure makes such an
opportunity available.
(D) An assurance that, for each fiscal year
covered by an application, the applicant
shall maintain and report such data, records,
and information (programmatic and finan-
cial) as the Attorney General may reason-
ably require.
(E) A certification, made in a form accept-
able to the Attorney General and executed
by the chief executive officer of the appli-
cant (or by another officer of the applicant,
if qualified under regulations promulgated
by the Attorney General), that—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.062 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3051
April 3, 2019
(i) the programs to be funded by the grant
meet all the requirements of this section;
(ii) all the information contained in the
application is correct;
(iii) there has been appropriate coordina-
tion with affected agencies; and
(iv) the applicant will comply with all pro-
visions of this section and all other applica-
ble Federal laws.
(F) A certification that the State or in the
case of a unit of local government, the State
in which the unit of local government is lo-
cated, has in effect criminal laws which pro-
hibit cybercrimes against individuals.
(G) A certification that any equipment de-
scribed in subsection (c)(7) purchased using
grant funds awarded under this section will
be used primarily for investigations and fo-
rensic analysis of evidence in matters in-
volving cybercrimes against individuals.
(c) USE OF FUNDS.—Grants awarded under
this section may only be used for programs
that provide—
(1) training for State or local law enforce-
ment personnel relating to cybercrimes
against individuals, including—
(A) training such personnel to identify and
protect victims of cybercrimes against indi-
viduals;
(B) training such personnel to utilize Fed-
eral, State, local, and other resources to as-
sist victims of cybercrimes against individ-
uals;
(C) training such personnel to identify and
investigate cybercrimes against individuals;
(D) training such personnel to enforce and
utilize the laws that prohibit cybercrimes
against individuals;
(E) training such personnel to utilize tech-
nology to assist in the investigation of
cybercrimes against individuals and enforce-
ment of laws that prohibit such crimes; and
(F) the payment of overtime incurred as a
result of such training;
(2) training for State or local prosecutors,
judges, and judicial personnel, relating to
cybercrimes against individuals, including—
(A) training such personnel to identify, in-
vestigate, prosecute, or adjudicate
cybercrimes against individuals;
(B) training such personnel to utilize laws
that prohibit cybercrimes against individ-
uals;
(C) training such personnel to utilize Fed-
eral, State, local, and other resources to as-
sist victims of cybercrimes against individ-
uals; and
(D) training such personnel to utilize tech-
nology to assist in the prosecution or adju-
dication of acts of cybercrimes against indi-
viduals, including the use of technology to
protect victims of such crimes;
(3) training for State or local emergency
dispatch personnel relating to cybercrimes
against individuals, including—
(A) training such personnel to identify and
protect victims of cybercrimes against indi-
viduals;
(B) training such personnel to utilize Fed-
eral, State, local, and other resources to as-
sist victims of cybercrimes against individ-
uals;
(C) training such personnel to utilize tech-
nology to assist in the identification of and
response to cybercrimes against individuals;
and
(D) the payment of overtime incurred as a
result of such training;
(4) assistance to State or local law enforce-
ment agencies in enforcing laws that pro-
hibit cybercrimes against individuals, in-
cluding expenses incurred in performing en-
forcement operations, such as overtime pay-
ments;
(5) assistance to State or local law enforce-
ment agencies in educating the public in
order to prevent, deter, and identify viola-
tions of laws that prohibit cybercrimes
against individuals;
(6) assistance to State or local law enforce-
ment agencies to establish task forces that
operate solely to conduct investigations, fo-
rensic analyses of evidence, and prosecutions
in matters involving cybercrimes against in-
dividuals;
(7) assistance to State or local law enforce-
ment and prosecutors in acquiring com-
puters, computer equipment, and other
equipment necessary to conduct investiga-
tions and forensic analysis of evidence in
matters involving cybercrimes against indi-
viduals, including expenses incurred in the
training, maintenance, or acquisition of
technical updates necessary for the use of
such equipment for the duration of a reason-
able period of use of such equipment;
(8) assistance in the facilitation and pro-
motion of sharing, with State and local law
enforcement officers and prosecutors, of the
expertise and information of Federal law en-
forcement agencies about the investigation,
analysis, and prosecution of matters involv-
ing laws that prohibit cybercrimes against
individuals, including the use of multijuris-
dictional task forces; or
(9) assistance to State and local law en-
forcement and prosecutors in processing
interstate extradition requests for violations
of laws involving cybercrimes against indi-
viduals, including expenses incurred in the
extradition of an offender from one State to
another.
(d) REPORT TO THE SECRETARY.—On the
date that is one year after the date on which
a State or unit of local government receives
a grant under this section, and annually
thereafter, the chief executive of such State
or unit of local government shall submit to
the Attorney General a report which con-
tains—
(1) a summary of the activities carried out
during the previous year with any grant re-
ceived by such State or unit of local govern-
ment;
(2) an evaluation of the results of such ac-
tivities; and
(3) such other information as the Attorney
General may reasonably require.
(e) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
November 1 of each even-numbered fiscal
year, the Attorney General shall submit to
the Committee on the Judiciary of the House
of Representatives and the Committee on the
Judiciary of the Senate a report that con-
tains a compilation of the information con-
tained in the report submitted under sub-
section (d).
(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to be
appropriated to carry out this section
$20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2024.
(2) LIMITATION.—Of the amount made avail-
able under paragraph (1) in any fiscal year,
not more than 5 percent may be used for
evaluation, monitoring, technical assistance,
salaries, and administrative expenses.
(g) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘cybercrimes against individ-
uals’’ means the criminal offenses applicable
in the relevant State or unit of local govern-
ment that involve the use of a computer to
cause personal harm to an individual, such
as the use of a computer to harass, threaten,
stalk, extort, coerce, cause fear, intimidate,
without consent distribute intimate images
of, or violate the privacy of, an individual,
except that—
(A) use of a computer need not be an ele-
ment of such an offense; and
(B) such term does not include the use of a
computer to cause harm to a commercial en-
tity, government agency, or any non-natural
persons.
(2) The term ‘‘computer’’ includes a com-
puter network and an interactive electronic
device.
SEC. 1502. NATIONAL RESOURCE CENTER GRANT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the avail-
ability of appropriations, the Attorney Gen-
eral shall award a grant under this section to
an eligible entity for the purpose of the es-
tablishment and maintenance of a National
Resource Center on Cybercrimes Against In-
dividuals to provide resource information,
training, and technical assistance to improve
the capacity of individuals, organizations,
governmental entities, and communities to
prevent, enforce, and prosecute cybercrimes
against individuals.
(b) APPLICATION.—To request a grant under
this section, an eligible entity shall submit
an application to the Attorney General not
later than 90 days after the date on which
funds to carry out this section are appro-
priated for fiscal year 2020 in such form as
the Attorney General may require. Such ap-
plication shall include the following:
(1) An assurance that, for each fiscal year
covered by an application, the applicant
shall maintain and report such data, records,
and information (programmatic and finan-
cial) as the Attorney General may reason-
ably require.
(2) A certification, made in a form accept-
able to the Attorney General, that—
(A) the programs funded by the grant meet
all the requirements of this section;
(B) all the information contained in the ap-
plication is correct; and
(C) the applicant will comply with all pro-
visions of this section and all other applica-
ble Federal laws.
(c) USE OF FUNDS.—The eligible entity
awarded a grant under this section shall use
such amounts for the establishment and
maintenance of a National Resource Center
on Cybercrimes Against Individuals, which
shall—
(1) offer a comprehensive array of tech-
nical assistance and training resources to
Federal, State, and local governmental agen-
cies, community-based organizations, and
other professionals and interested parties,
related to cybercrimes against individuals,
including programs and research related to
victims;
(2) maintain a resource library which shall
collect, prepare, analyze, and disseminate in-
formation and statistics related to—
(A) the incidence of cybercrimes against
individuals;
(B) the enforcement, and prosecution of
laws relating to cybercrimes against individ-
uals; and
(C) the provision of supportive services and
resources for victims of cybercrimes against
individuals; and
(3) conduct research related to—
(A) the causes of cybercrimes against indi-
viduals;
(B) the effect of cybercrimes against indi-
viduals on victims of such crimes; and
(C) model solutions to prevent or deter
cybercrimes against individuals or to enforce
the laws relating to cybercrimes against in-
dividuals.
(d) DURATION OF GRANT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The grant awarded under
this section shall be awarded for a period of
5 years.
(2) RENEWAL.—A grant under this section
may be renewed for additional 5-year periods
if the Attorney General determines that the
funds made available to the recipient were
used in a manner described in subsection (c),
and if the recipient resubmits an application
described in subsection (b) in such form, and
at such time as the Attorney General may
reasonably require.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.064 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3052 April 3, 2019
(e) SUBGRANTS.—The eligible entity award-
ed a grant under this section may make sub-
grants to other nonprofit private organiza-
tions with relevant subject matter expertise
in order to establish and maintain the Na-
tional Resource Center on Cybercrimes
Against Individuals in accordance with sub-
section (c).
(f) REPORT TO THE SECRETARY.—On the date
that is one year after the date on which an
eligible entity receives a grant under this
section, and annually thereafter for the du-
ration of the grant period, the entity shall
submit to the Attorney General a report
which contains—
(1) a summary of the activities carried out
under the grant program during the previous
year;
(2) an evaluation of the results of such ac-
tivities; and
(3) such other information as the Attorney
General may reasonably require.
(g) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
November 1 of each even-numbered fiscal
year, the Attorney General shall submit to
the Committee on the Judiciary of the House
of Representatives and the Committee on the
Judiciary of the Senate a report that con-
tains a compilation of the information con-
tained in the report submitted under sub-
section (d).
(h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section $4,000,000 for each of
fiscal years 2020 through 2024.
(i) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) CYBERCRIMES AGAINST INDIVIDUALS.—
The term ‘‘cybercrimes against individuals’’
has the meaning given such term in section
1501(g).
(2) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—The term ‘‘eligible
entity’’ means a nonprofit private organiza-
tion that focuses on cybercrimes against in-
dividuals and that—
(A) provides documentation to the Attor-
ney General demonstrating experience work-
ing directly on issues of cybercrimes against
individuals; and
(B) includes on the entity’s advisory board
representatives who have a documented his-
tory of working directly on issues of
cybercrimes against individuals and who are
geographically and culturally diverse.
SEC. 1503. NATIONAL STRATEGY, CLASSIFICA-
TION, AND REPORTING ON
CYBERCRIME.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COMPUTER.—The term ‘‘computer’’ in-
cludes a computer network and any inter-
active electronic device.
(2) CYBERCRIME AGAINST INDIVIDUALS.—The
term ‘‘cybercrime against individuals’’
means a Federal, State, or local criminal of-
fense that involves the use of a computer to
cause personal harm to an individual, such
as the use of a computer to harass, threaten,
stalk, extort, coerce, cause fear, intimidate,
without consent distribute intimate images
of, or violate the privacy of, an individual,
except that—
(A) use of a computer need not be an ele-
ment of the offense; and
(B) the term does not include the use of a
computer to cause harm to a commercial en-
tity, government agency, or non-natural per-
son.
(b) NATIONAL STRATEGY.—The Attorney
General shall develop a national strategy
to—
(1) reduce the incidence of cybercrimes
against individuals;
(2) coordinate investigations of
cybercrimes against individuals by Federal
law enforcement agencies; and
(3) increase the number of Federal prosecu-
tions of cybercrimes against individuals.
(c) CLASSIFICATION OF CYBERCRIMES
AGAINST INDIVIDUALS FOR PURPOSES OF CRIME
REPORTS.—In accordance with the authority
of the Attorney General under section 534 of
title 28, United States Code, the Director of
the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall—
(1) design and create within the Uniform
Crime Reports a category for offenses that
constitute cybercrimes against individuals;
(2) to the extent feasible, within the cat-
egory established under paragraph (1), estab-
lish subcategories for each type of
cybercrime against individuals that is an of-
fense under Federal or State law;
(3) classify the category established under
paragraph (1) as a Part I crime in the Uni-
form Crime Reports; and
(4) classify each type of cybercrime against
individuals that is an offense under Federal
or State law as a Group A offense for the
purpose of the National Incident-Based Re-
porting System.
(d) ANNUAL SUMMARY.—The Attorney Gen-
eral shall publish an annual summary of the
information reported in the Uniform Crime
Reports and the National Incident-Based Re-
porting System relating to cybercrimes
against individuals.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from Massachusetts (Ms. CLARK) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Massachusetts.
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts. Mr.
Chairman, every day, millions of
Americans use the internet to enrich
their lives, engage with their commu-
nities, and do their jobs.
While most online interactions are
positive, the sad reality is that for far
too many Americans having an online
presence means being subjected to har-
assment, stalking, sextortion, and sex-
ual abuse.
In recent years, the internet has be-
come an easy way for abusers to stalk
victims of domestic violence and prey
on vulnerable children.
These crimes aren’t just one-off oc-
currences, they are not just virtual.
They can destroy lives.
One of my constituents received an
onslaught of rape and death threats so
horrific and explicit that she and her
husband fled their home and eventually
moved because they feared for their
lives.
Unfortunately, when she reported
these threats to law enforcement, the
officers she worked with did not have
the training or the resources necessary
to fully investigate this crime and
bring the perpetrators to justice.
And this is just one story.
In fact, 20 percent, one in five, of all
adult internet users have been affected
by cyberstalking, persistent harassing
emails or other unwanted online con-
tact.
One increasingly common form of on-
line abuse involves perpetrators threat-
ening to expose private or sensitive
material, including nude images, un-
less victims produce sexual materials
or pay the abuser money.
The Department of Justice recently
declared that this type of abuse, known
as sextortion, ‘‘. . . is by far the most
significantly growing threat to chil-
dren,’’ and that:
Sextortion cases tend to have more victims
who are minors per offense than all other
child sexual exploitation offenses.
According to a 2015 FBI analysis of 43
sextortion cases, at least two victims
committed suicide and at least ten
more attempted.
From self-mutilation to suicide, the
consequences of sextortion for trauma-
tized victims can be devastating.
If we are going to prevent these types
of online crimes, we need to make sure
our law enforcement understands how
to best combat them.
This amendment establishes a grant
program to train local and State law
enforcement to prevent, enforce, and
prosecute crimes carried out online. It
creates a national resource center to
study these crimes and requires the
FBI to update the Uniform Crime Re-
ports and National Incident-Based Re-
porting System to include cybercrimes.
In an economy that is increasingly
online, these crimes can profoundly
impact career choice and economic
participation.
My amendment would make sure our
criminal justice system is equipped to
respond to the crimes that happen on-
line or offline.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
provide law enforcement with the tools
they need to combat these crimes by
supporting my amendment.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
rise in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Georgia is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I understand what the gentle-
woman is talking about and wants to
do here.
The concern here is this amendment
establishes an entirely new grant pro-
gram with a national resource center.
It is unclear how it would be necessary,
but it is also unclear on what resources
would be used to establish that new
center. And if it means taking money
out of the current VAWA bill for vic-
tims, for women and others, then I
would definitely be opposed to this.
Provisions in existing law and the
underlying bill already address these
and similar issues, including digital
and cyber abuse.
So just from that perspective, from a
concern of where the funds are actually
coming from and how to do this, but
also the fact that it seems redundant,
that is why I would oppose it.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Massachusetts (Ms.
CLARK).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 24 OFFERED BY MR.
KRISHNAMOORTHI
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 24 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI. Mr. Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.064 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3053
April 3, 2019
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as
follows:
Page 109, line 8, insert after ‘‘other compo-
nents of economic security’’ the following ‘‘,
including financial empowerment, affordable
housing, transportation, healthcare access,
and quality education and training opportu-
nities’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from Illinois (Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Illinois.
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI. Mr. Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Chair, I rise today in support of
amendment No. 24 to the Violence
Against Women Act.
The true cost of domestic violence is
difficult to compute because of just
how many aspects of someone’s life it
can affect and the economic sabotage
it can induce.
A woman could face job insecurity
because she must spend excessive re-
sources on legal assistance or
childcare. She could lack the financial
security to leave an abusive partner,
because the partner may be tightening
his grip on a shared bank account. She
may be vulnerable to homelessness.
She may even face unavoidable and
skyrocketing healthcare costs due to
the physical abuse she has experienced.
There are numerous ways that do-
mestic and sexual violence can create
economic obstacles for women in
America, and it is imperative that we
study these issues, to strengthen the
health and safety of our communities.
My bipartisan amendment, which I
introduced with Congresswoman SUSAN
BROOKS of Indiana, requires the De-
partment of Health and Human Serv-
ices and the Department of Labor to
analyze and report all barriers that
survivors face in achieving economic
security outside of an abusive relation-
ship.
This amendment would ensure we are
taking a comprehensive approach to
strengthen the economic stability of
survivors of domestic and sexual vio-
lence, including their ability to
achieve financial empowerment, afford-
able housing, transportation,
healthcare access, and quality edu-
cation and training opportunities.
Ultimately, this information will
help put more women and survivors of
domestic and sexual violence on a path
of upward mobility.
Mr. Chair, I strongly urge my col-
leagues to support this amendment,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
b 1830
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I claim the time in opposition to
the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI. Mr. Chair-
man, I urge my colleagues to support
this amendment, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 25 OFFERED BY MR.
KRISHNAMOORTHI
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 25 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI. Mr. Chair-
man, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 114, line 10, insert after ‘‘or stalking’’
the following: ‘‘, including guidelines and
best practices to promote the creation of ef-
fective employee assistance programs’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from Illinois (Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Illinois.
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI. Mr. Chair-
man, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Chairman, I rise today in support
of my amendment No. 25 to the Vio-
lence Against Women Act.
For decades, Congress has taken ac-
tion to ensure that victims of domestic
violence are supported and protected
from their abusers by providing re-
sources and tools to promote health
and safety.
We know that one in three women ex-
perience domestic violence or sexual
assault in their lifetime. We also know
that the devastating effects of such vi-
olence are experienced at home, in re-
lationships, and even when they go to
work.
In fact, the Department of Labor re-
ports that, in total, survivors of domes-
tic violence lose nearly 8 million days
of paid work a year due to a violent sit-
uation at home, whether that be find-
ing legal assistance, securing
childcare, or receiving health services.
Statistics show that abusers are more
likely to follow or harass survivors at
their workplace, which can add an
overwhelming sense of fear. Survivors
may also experience an extreme loss in
productivity due to distraction, worry,
or poor performance. Due to the abun-
dance of difficult issues facing these in-
dividuals, their ability to remain em-
ployed often is at risk.
These missed days result in $1.8 bil-
lion in lost productivity for American
businesses per year. According to the
Bureau of Labor Statistics, over 44 per-
cent of workplaces do not have formal
policies that address domestic violence
in the workplace.
Moving forward, we must find ways
to help employers offer lifesaving re-
sources to victims of such violence, an
endeavor that will improve the health
and safety of American employees both
at home and at the workplace.
Many companies nationwide have
adopted effective ‘‘employee assistance
programs’’ that include comprehensive
domestic violence services for sur-
vivors. Employee assistance programs
have been proven to help survivors
when they come into work by offering
free counseling, referrals, and assess-
ments. In many cases, these programs
offer lifesaving services to survivors
dealing with dangerous and difficult
situations at home.
This bipartisan amendment, which I
am offering with my colleague Con-
gressman DON BACON, directs the De-
partment of Health and Human Serv-
ices and the Department of Labor to
launch a public information campaign
that includes guidelines and best prac-
tices for employers to create these ef-
fective employee assistance programs.
By conducting extensive research and
sharing these findings with employers
across the country, we can strengthen
support services at the workplace for
the betterment of women’s health and
safety.
Mr. Chairman, with the reauthoriza-
tion of the Violence Against Women
Act, we have a momentous opportunity
to improve employee assistance pro-
grams throughout the country. I urge
my colleagues to seize this moment by
supporting this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 26 OFFERED BY MR. BROWN OF
MARYLAND
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 26 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Chair-
man, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 28, insert after line 24 the following
(and conform the table of contents accord-
ingly):
SEC. 108. GRANTS FOR LETHALITY ASSESSMENT
PROGRAMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General
may make grants to States, units of local
government, Indian tribes, domestic violence
victim service providers, and State or Tribal
Domestic Violence Coalitions for technical
assistance and training in the operation or
establishment of a lethality assessment pro-
gram.
(b) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term
‘‘lethality assessment program’’ means a
program that—
(1) rapidly connects a victim of domestic
violence to local community-based victim
service providers;
(2) helps first responders and others in the
justice system, including courts, law en-
forcement agencies, and prosecutors of tribal
government and units of local government,
identify and respond to possibly lethal cir-
cumstances; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.110 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3054 April 3, 2019
(3) identifies victims of domestic violence
who are at high risk of being seriously in-
jured or killed by an intimate partner.
(c) QUALIFICATIONS.—To be eligible for a
grant under this section, an applicant shall
demonstrate experience in developing, imple-
menting, evaluating, and disseminating a
lethality assessment program.
(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated
$5,000,000 to carry out this section for each of
fiscal years 2020 through 2024.
(e) DEFINITIONS.—Terms used in this sec-
tion have the meanings given such terms in
section 40002 of the Violence Against Women
Act of 1994.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. BROWN) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Chair-
man, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Chairman, I want to first recog-
nize the hard work of my colleagues—
the chairman of the Judiciary Com-
mittee, JERRY NADLER; my colleague
from California, Congresswoman
KAREN BASS; as well as all the mem-
bers of the Judiciary Committee—on
the underlying bill.
My amendment would create a grant
program for States, localities, and non-
profits to establish and operate a
lethality assessment program.
The lethality assessment program
was developed in my home State of
Maryland in 2005 by the Maryland Net-
work Against Domestic Violence.
Research shows that for one-third of
victims of domestic violence, homicide
or attempted homicide was the first
act of violence in that relationship.
Research also shows that in the year
prior to the homicide, more than 44
percent of abusers were arrested, and
almost one-third of the victims con-
tacted the police about the abuser.
The lethality assessment program
was developed to reduce the number of
missed opportunities to identify vic-
tims of domestic violence who are at
risk of being killed, and it enables
them to take steps that might save
their lives.
The lethality assessment program is
an evidence-based homicide prevention
tool. Because intimate partner homi-
cides are predictable in many cases,
they are preventable in many cases.
This program is used in 37 States by
law enforcement, nurses, social work-
ers, hospital personnel, caseworkers,
and court personnel.
By simply asking the lethality
screening questions, the trained person
conducting the screening educates the
victim about the signs of increased risk
of homicide. The trained person then
further educates the victim as to how
to remain safe, what options are avail-
able, and what resources are in the
community. The victim feels empow-
ered to make choices that increase
their own safety.
The lethality assessment program is
one of only two models of evidence-
based intimate partner homicide pre-
vention to be recognized and honored
as a promising practice by the Depart-
ment of Justice.
During my time as Lieutenant Gov-
ernor, I supported expanding and fully
funding the lethality assessment pro-
gram in Maryland because I understood
then, just as I understand today, that
domestic violence and violence against
women is not just a woman’s issue. Do-
mestic violence impacts all of us, fami-
lies, neighbors, and entire commu-
nities.
As we stand here debating my
amendment and whether to reauthorize
legal protections and resources for
women, one in four women continue to
experience abuse or stalking by their
current or former intimate partner.
One woman of the thousands who are
killed by a current or former intimate
partner every year was my cousin,
Cathy. She was a 40-year-old woman
and a teacher. She loved her work, and
she loved her schoolchildren.
On the weekend before she was going
to begin her classes, in 2008, she was
stalked; she was ambushed; she was
tormented; and she was shot and killed
by her former intimate partner in front
of two police officers.
While there is nothing that will bring
Cathy back, we have the opportunity,
right now, to pass commonsense legis-
lation that safeguards women and fam-
ilies from the horrors that Cathy and
my family experienced, and so many
other families.
Domestic violence does not discrimi-
nate, and it is up to us to ensure that
our wives, husbands, partners, mothers,
and children live their lives free from
violence.
Mr. Chairman, I strongly encourage
my colleagues to support this amend-
ment and the Violence Against Women
Reauthorization Act of 2019, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Maryland (Mr. BROWN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 27 OFFERED BY MS. HAALAND
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 27 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Chairman, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 18, line 8, strike ‘‘and’’.
Page 18, line 14, strike the period at the
end and insert a semicolon.
Page 18, after line 14, insert the following:
‘‘(23) providing victim advocates in State
or local law enforcement agencies, prosecu-
tors’ offices, and courts and providing sup-
portive services and advocacy to urban
American Indian and Alaska Native victims
of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, and stalking.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from New Mexico (Ms. HAALAND) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Mexico.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Chairman, this
bipartisan amendment addresses the
needs of Native Americans living in
urban areas by making victim advo-
cates available in State courts for
urban Indians under the STOP Vio-
lence Against Women Formula Grant
Program for States.
In 2018, the State STOP grant pro-
gram awarded 56 awards totaling over
$154 million to State programs to pro-
vide funding for victim services to ad-
dress sexual assault, domestic violence,
dating violence, and stalking through
State initiatives to enhance existing
programs and fill gaps in services.
Currently, the State STOP grant pro-
gram is used to strengthen partner-
ships between Tribal and non-Tribal
stakeholders to improve responses to
Native American victims, but there is
no requirement for State grant activi-
ties to prioritize the hiring of in-court
victim advocates for urban Indians.
Frequently, the subgrantees of this
program are community-based organi-
zations, which are chronically under-
funded, short-staffed, and not able to
specifically address the needs of urban
Indian victims.
This leaves urban Native victims
without any resources, which are se-
verely needed within State courts and
which could easily be remedied by hir-
ing in-court State victim advocates.
This is especially true in light of the
crisis of missing and murdered indige-
nous women, to break the cycle of gen-
erational trauma and violence.
Due to devastating Federal policies,
like forced relocation and removal, 71
percent of the Native American popu-
lation lives in urban areas. Urban cit-
ies with high populations of Native
Americans include places like Phoenix;
Seattle; Los Angeles; and in my dis-
trict, Albuquerque.
Recent reports by the Urban Indian
Health Institute identified 506 cases of
missing and murdered indigenous
women across 71 urban cities. My State
of New Mexico ranked number one for
the highest number of missing and
murdered indigenous women cases,
which was 78.
Mr. Chairman, I thank the bipartisan
cosponsors of this amendment, Rep-
resentatives GRIJALVA, COLE, GALLEGO,
MOORE, YOUNG, CASE, SOTO, DAVIDS,
and TORRES, for their support. I ask my
colleagues to help these Native Amer-
ican women who are the victims of vio-
lence.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from New Mexico (Ms.
HAALAND).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 28 OFFERED BY MS. HAALAND
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 28 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Chairman, I have
an amendment at the desk.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:11 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.058 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3055
April 3, 2019
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 127, strike line 3, and insert the fol-
lowing:
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 534 of title 28,
United States Code, is
Page 127, insert after line 11 the following:
(b) INDIAN TRIBE AND INDIAN LAW ENFORCE-
MENT INFORMATION SHARING.—Section 534 of
title 28, United States Code, is further
amended by amending subsection (d) to read
as follows:
‘‘(d) INDIAN TRIBE AND INDIAN LAW EN-
FORCEMENT INFORMATION SHARING.—The At-
torney General shall permit tribal law en-
forcement entities (including entities des-
ignated by a tribe as maintaining public
safety within a tribe’s territorial jurisdic-
tion that has no federal or state arrest au-
thority) and Bureau of Indian Affairs law en-
forcement agencies—
‘‘(1) to access and enter information into
Federal criminal information databases; and
‘‘(2) to obtain information from the data-
bases.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from New Mexico (Ms. HAALAND) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Mexico.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Chairman, I offer
this bipartisan amendment to improve
public safety in Indian Country
through the Tribal Access Program, or
TAP, which is an existing information-
sharing system for Tribes in Indian
Country.
The Tribal Access Program adminis-
tered through the Department of Jus-
tice is an effective method of sharing
criminal conviction information be-
tween Tribal, local, State, and Federal
law enforcement agencies.
b 1845
TAP allows law enforcement officers
in neighboring jurisdictions to see each
other’s restraining orders, warrants,
and exclusion orders across jurisdic-
tional boundaries to improve public
safety.
Having this information is critical to
keeping victims of domestic violence
safe from harm, but, unfortunately, the
Department of Justice has told many
Tribes they don’t qualify to partici-
pate. Although the statute says that
any Tribal government can access this
data, the DOJ rejects applications from
Tribes that don’t specifically have ar-
rest authority.
Under my amendment, a Tribal gov-
ernment with a designated public safe-
ty agency, regardless of their ability to
detain and arrest perpetrators, will
have access and the ability to enter in-
formation into the TAP program.
I want to be clear that my amend-
ment does not allow these designated
public safety departments or agencies
to determine criminal convictions.
That is a determination made by
courts through due process. This
amendment only allows information
sharing and access to TAP to better
communicate between public safety de-
partments on reservations that are fre-
quently limited in resources.
The stakes are too high to continue
to deny Tribes that are already strug-
gling from resources to keep people
safe in Indian Country access to this
important information.
For example, I heard from a Tribe
that one of their members had a pre-
existing restraining order against her
abuser; however, when the perpetrator
entered the reservation, the Reserva-
tion Patrol—a Tribal public safety
agency without arrest authority—un-
knowingly allowed the abuser to enter
the reservation because they did not
have access to information about the
existing restraining order.
The violation of the restraining order
against the unsuspecting victim could
have been prevented if the Reservation
Patrol had the ability to access the
criminal history of the abuser through
TAP.
Denying Tribal public safety depart-
ments access to information that can
prevent crimes, particularly violence
against women, is unconscionable.
The chronic lack of public safety re-
sources in Indian Country, including
inadequately staffed law enforcement
agencies and lack of cell phone and
internet service for communication, al-
ready puts Tribes behind in protecting
their members.
If this were about any other commu-
nity located off the reservation, it is
likely this amendment wouldn’t be at
issue today.
I thank the bipartisan cosponsors of
this amendment—Representatives
YOUNG, COOK, GRIJALVA, COLE,
GALLEGO, RUIZ, CASE, SOTO, DAVIDS,
and TORRES—for their support and ask
my colleagues to help give Tribal pub-
lic safety departments the information
they need to protect Native American
women from violence.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from New Mexico (Ms.
HAALAND).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 29 OFFERED BY MR. ROUDA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 29 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 85, after line 13, insert the following
(and redesignate other provisions accord-
ingly):
(4) Transgender and gender non-conforming
people face extraordinary levels of physical
and sexual violence.
(5) More than 1 in 4 transgender people
have faced bias-driven assault, and this rate
is higher for trans women and trans people of
color.
(6) The American Foundation for Suicide
Prevention has found that transgender and
gender non-conforming people had an ele-
vated prevalence of suicide attempts, espe-
cially when they have suffered physical or
sexual violence.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from California (Mr. ROUDA) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, transgender
and gender nonconforming people face
extraordinary levels of physical and
sexual violence. According to the U.S.
Transgender Survey, which surveyed
nearly 28,000 transgender Americans
across all 50 States, nearly half of
transgender individuals have been sex-
ually assaulted in their lifetime, and
nearly 1 in 10 respondents in the survey
reported that they were physically at-
tacked in the past year because of
being transgender.
Transgender people face dispropor-
tionate harassment and violence. More
than one in four transgender people
have faced bias-driven assault, and this
rate is higher for trans women and
trans people of color. The fear caused
by these acts sends people underground
and away from community services and
support.
This violence has deadly con-
sequences. The American Foundation
for Suicide Prevention has found that
transgender and gender nonconforming
people have an elevated prevalence of
suicide attempts, especially when they
have suffered physical or sexual as-
sault.
As always, listening to and believing
survivors is critical, and I stand com-
mitted to rejecting the prejudice and
hate facing transgender and gender
nonconforming people in our Nation.
Far too often, the experiences of
transgender and gender nonconforming
people are ignored and overlooked.
My amendment, which is supported
by the Human Rights Campaign and
the National Center for Transgender
Equality, adds language to the Vio-
lence Against Women Reauthorization
Act that recognizes the ongoing epi-
demic of violence against these mem-
bers of the LGBTQ community.
Mr. Chair, I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting this amendment
that seeks to include the experiences of
transgender and gender nonconforming
people in this important piece of legis-
lation.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I claim the time in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I appreciate the gentleman. I
have no problem.
As far as any violence against any-
one, no matter what the cause is, is
wrong. And no one should be treated
differently because of choices and
other things in their life, whether it be
just the basic humanity that we deal
with.
I think the only concern that I have
here, as someone who has dealt with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.119 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3056 April 3, 2019
suicide, who has dealt with it on a
counseling level for many years both in
the military and outside, I would not
want to assign a certain bias to the
reasoning here, because there are other
reasons, as well, for suicide, and to
keep that holistically. That is why,
from my personal standpoint, I would
not want to assign that.
I think any of these is tragic and do
contribute to that issue, just as it
would anything else. So I think lim-
iting it, in my opinion, would not be
good in the holistic approach to mak-
ing sure that no one believes that their
only choice in life is suicide, which is
what the amendment seems to do.
I think there are multiple things
there, and we need to be very aware of
that—and the friends and family
around us. If I could take anything else
from this moment, it is that I would
include everybody listening in today,
no matter what their background is,
suicide is something that is tragic.
And if it comes to a point where peo-
ple do not feel any hope, it is impera-
tive that people reach out to all people,
no matter who they are, if they know
them or not, and just ask simple ques-
tions: ‘‘Are you okay?’’ ‘‘Can we talk?’’
Do the things like that that help peo-
ple understand that they are not alone
in this situation.
I appreciate the gentleman’s concern.
I do voice opposition to this amend-
ment just in the sense that I believe it
is too limiting in scope to say that this
is the reason why or to input a bias
into a congressional finding.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, I appreciate
the Member’s comments and agree that
suicide, nationally, is an issue, regard-
less of the situation, and I appreciate
his comments that anybody in that sit-
uation should be encouraged to reach
out.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. ROUDA).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 30 OFFERED BY MR. ROUDA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 30 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 38, after line 15, insert the following
(and redesignate other provisions accord-
ingly):
(C) in paragraph (4), by inserting after ‘‘im-
prove delivery of’’ the following: ‘‘primary
prevention training and’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from California (Mr. ROUDA) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, as we seek to
reauthorize this landmark piece of bi-
partisan legislation, it is important
that we recognize we have a long way
to go to end rape, sexual violence, and
sexual harassment on college cam-
puses.
Nearly one-quarter of American col-
lege women experience sexual violence.
Let me repeat. Nearly one-quarter of
college women experience sexual vio-
lence while attending school.
We have failed the young people of
our Nation who are tirelessly pursuing
higher education and chasing the
American Dream.
The Violence Against Women Act
supports hundreds of thousands of sex-
ual assault survivors across the United
States; however, we must do more to
prevent these acts of sexual violence
from occurring in the first place. My
amendment would give colleges and
universities the opportunity to use
grant funding to offer or improve the
delivery of primary prevention train-
ing.
Primary prevention training is ex-
actly what it sounds like. It seeks to
educate and change the culture on col-
lege campuses. It promotes healthy re-
lationships and addresses community
and societal challenges. It teaches stu-
dents consent and stops sexual assaults
from occurring.
Organizations like End Rape on Cam-
pus know that primary prevention
training works, and they are in full
support of this amendment.
As I mentioned earlier, one-quarter
of college women experience sexual vi-
olence while on campus. Today, we can
begin to change that unacceptable sta-
tistic by adopting this amendment.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I claim the time in opposition, al-
though I am not necessarily opposed to
it.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair,
again, I do not necessarily oppose the
amendment.
I think the underlying actual law ad-
dresses what you are after here, so, in
my mind, it is duplicative and can
serve to muddy up, really, some exist-
ing law that is already here. So that
would be my concern about your
amendment. I think it is already cov-
ered.
Mr. Chair, I appreciate the gen-
tleman offering the amendment, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. ROUDA).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 31 OFFERED BY MR. ROUDA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 31 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 39, line 6, insert after ‘‘efforts.’’ the
following:
‘‘(12) To develop and implement an alter-
native justice response (as such term is de-
fined in section 40002(a) of the Violence
Against Women Act of 1994).’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from California (Mr. ROUDA) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, as I men-
tioned, 25 percent of female students on
campus have experienced sexual as-
sault, yet less than 10 percent of col-
lege students who experience sexual vi-
olence report their assaults.
For many survivors, reporting a sex-
ual assault is an incredibly traumatic
process that forces them to repeatedly
relive the worst days or nights of their
lives.
More than just traumatic, reporting
can be dangerous or detrimental to
one’s social status, academic pursuits,
or career prospects.
Knowing that 90 percent of students
feel uncomfortable with the current re-
porting process, my amendment would
give colleges and universities the op-
portunity to use grant funding to offer
alternative justice response programs.
These programs allow for a nonpuni-
tive response to objectionable conduct,
seek accountability from the accused,
provide alternative pathways for jus-
tice and healing for survivors, and give
an opportunity for education and be-
havioral change.
Research has shown that alternative
justice programs, which return auton-
omy and control to survivors, can less-
en PTSD symptoms.
Working toward justice and healing
are not always linear processes, and
this amendment would allow for the
complex experiences of survivors to be
respected and supported.
Mr. Chair, I ask that my colleagues
join me in supporting this amendment,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, I claim the time in opposition to
the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Georgia is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, this one is one that, from many
perspectives—and we talked about this
a little bit earlier in this debate. Espe-
cially when it comes to the alternative
justice issue here, we understand the
concerns for the victims and need to be
a part of that, but this is something
prosecutors across the country have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.123 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3057
April 3, 2019
opposed. And, in fact, the National Dis-
trict Attorneys Association points out
in a letter today:
While this approach may work successfully
in other types of situations, we lack suffi-
cient information on potential downsides of
bringing a batterer into the same room with
a victim in order to conflict-resolve what is
considered a crime of violence.
b 1900
They go on to say that:
A philosophy of putting the ability to con-
sent to this kind of program on a victim’s
shoulders is misplaced and may result in un-
intended consequences to the victim, such as
safety concerns. The prosecutors are among
the people that utilize the beneficial tools of
VAWA the most, and they are on the front
lines of combating the violence against
women.
I don’t think that we should ignore
that. I think when we are looking at
this, as I said earlier in this debate
today, anyone who does this is a crimi-
nal. If they do this to people, stalking,
domestic violence, all this, they are
criminal actions, and I do not want to
take that away from this. The victim
should be cared for. The victim should
be nurtured. The victim should be able
to come forward in that process.
But I do not want to take campuses
and other places away where it be-
comes something which law enforce-
ment does not have the primary say so,
or you are allowing the campus, Mr.
Chairman, to come in and have their
own alternative kind of investigative
process. And this is something that is
of concern.
I appreciate the gentleman’s concern
in how people move through this proc-
ess, but this is just not the right way
to go, especially in this bill. There may
be other ways to address this.
That is why I would oppose the
amendment, because I just feel like we
do not need to ever take away the fact
that the victims in this are victims of
a crime. We never can take that away
and would not want to resurface that
in any other way. I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chairman, I appre-
ciate the gentleman’s comments.
As I mentioned early, when you look
at 25 percent of the female student
body experiencing sexual assault on
campus, and only 10 percent feeling
comfortable to come forward and re-
port, that 90 percent of them that do
not feel that they have an avenue that
they are comfortable with to share
their story and seek justice, this is an
opportunity to do just that.
There is no evidence that suggests
those universities that have already
provided restorative justice have seen a
decline in actual reports.
As such, I think this is a program
that provides exactly what was laid out
in the amendment and should have bi-
partisan support.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Again, not
to prolong this, but I think the inter-
esting issue here, Mr. Chairman, is
from the understanding there are ways
inside VAWA. There are other pro-
grams here. And I would just have to
say that for those who do not come for-
ward, there are also many other rea-
sons besides the fact of the law enforce-
ment process that we go through here.
So what I don’t want to have is just
because the law enforcement process
does require reporting and does require
this, we don’t want to let the abuser in
this situation, or the perpetrator in
this situation be allowed to continue
because the system is too hard.
I would like to see the system be
made where the victims can come for-
ward and not take it away to where it
would be something that is alternative.
So I think in many ways we are prob-
ably saying or at least wanting the
same things. I want to make it easier
for them to report the folks who do
this to them, no matter what back-
ground they are from or gender they
are or anything else and have that abil-
ity for law enforcement to do what
should be done, and that is, to put
these people in jail.
I think that is the big difference I
have here, and I don’t think this is the
proper place for it. There may be other
ways we can find common ground in
this, but not here, especially with what
VAWA has the ability to do already in-
side it.
So that is my opposition to this. We
want the same thing. The people who
perpetrate these crimes need to be
prosecuted. I just don’t want to see
things diverted and an outlet given. It
should be better for the victims to be
able to come and report this. It is a sad
state of occurrence when you don’t
have the ability or want to come report
because they feel the system is too
hard. But also, not taking this out of
account, there are other reasons why
this is not reported, or they don’t feel
like they can come forward. And I
don’t think we can deny that.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chairman, I will
point out that lots of times victims do
not come forward to the police depart-
ment and the court system because
they recognize that they often will not
get justice. That could be because of a
lack of evidence, or that could be for
other reasons. This provides another
recourse for them.
As the father of a daughter and three
sons, I would want to see this available
for those kids in that type of a situa-
tion, that if the victim felt this was
the right course of action for them to
address that issue, then I believe this
amendment helps them do just that.
And while I respect my colleague’s
comment, again, I would hold the
amendment up as is, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, again, that is fine. I think the
National District Attorneys Associa-
tion also would agree that this is some-
thing that should be studied, but not
mandated. And I think the amendment
here goes farther than most of us are
feeling comfortable with in that re-
gard.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chair, I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. ROUDA).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 32 OFFERED BY MR. ROUDA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 32 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chairman, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 38, strike lines 1 through 2 and insert
the following:
(A) by amending paragraph (2) to read as
follows:
‘‘(2) To develop, strengthen, and implement
campus policies, protocols, and services that
more effectively identify and respond to the
crimes of domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault and stalking, including the
use of technology to commit these crimes,
and to train campus administrators, campus
security personnel, and all participants in
the resolution process, including the Title IX
coordinator’s office and student conduct of-
fice on campus disciplinary or judicial
boards on such policies, protocols, and serv-
ices.’’.
Page 39, line 12, strike ‘‘and’’.
Page 39, insert after line 12, the following:
(B) by amending paragraph (3)(D) to read
as follows:
‘‘(D) The grantee shall train all partici-
pants in the resolution process, including the
Title IX coordinator’s office and student con-
duct office, to respond effectively to situa-
tions involving domestic violence, dating vi-
olence, sexual assault, or stalking.’’; and
Page 39, line 13, strike ‘‘(B) in paragraph’’
and insert ‘‘(C) in paragraph’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from California (Mr. ROUDA) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California
Mr. ROUDA. Mr. Chairman, my final
amendment addresses training for all
participants involved in the complaint
resolution process.
Campus disciplinary processes, gov-
erned by Title IX, vary by school, and
involve many participants before the
complaint even reaches the hearing
phase where a campus disciplinary or
judicial board would be involved. Many
survivors never even reach the hearing
phase.
At the same time, throughout the
disclosure process, survivors are re-
quired to relive and discuss their sex-
ual assaults with administrators, fac-
ulty, and staff. As previously men-
tioned, only 10 percent of college stu-
dent survivors officially report their
assault.
When and if they decide to report,
survivors deserve to be met with trau-
ma-informed care, and campus faculty
and staff deserve training on the best
practices to meet this critical need.
My amendment would give colleges
and universities the opportunity to use
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.127 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3058 April 3, 2019
grant funding for training of all par-
ticipants involved with the resolution
process in training which identifies or
responds to crimes of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault,
and stalking.
Resolution process members include
the Title IX coordinator’s office, as
well as the office of student conduct.
This training will ensure that sur-
vivors are treated with more respect,
professionalism, and compassion by
every school official, campus security
guard, administrator, and professor.
I urge Members to adopt this amend-
ment which promotes effective and
positive responses to survivors on col-
lege campuses.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. ROUDA).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 33 OFFERED BY MRS. CRAIG
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 33 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mrs. CRAIG. Mr. Chairman, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 37, line 21, insert ‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—
’’ before ‘‘Section 304’’.
Page 39, after line 19, insert the following:
(b) REPORT ON BEST PRACTICES REGARDING
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING VIOLENCE, SEX-
UAL ASSAULT, AND STALKING ON CAMPUSES.—
Not later than 1 year after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of Education
shall submit to Congress a report, which in-
cludes—
(1) an evaluation of programs, events, and
educational materials related to domestic vi-
olence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
stalking; and
(2) an assessment of best practices and
guidance from the evaluation described in
paragraph (1), which shall be made publicly
available online to universities and college
campuses to use as a resource.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from Minnesota (Mrs. CRAIG) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Minnesota.
Mrs. CRAIG. Mr. Chairman, I rise
today to offer an amendment to H.R.
1585, the Violence Against Women Re-
authorization Act.
Every student deserves to learn in an
environment that is safe and free from
harassment and violence. Yet, we all
know that domestic violence and sex-
ual assault remain prevalent threats to
women, and especially young women,
on college campuses across our coun-
try.
College-aged students are at greater
risk than any other age groups for do-
mestic and sexual violence. These in-
stances of violence are vastly under-
reported. A study of college students
by the U.S. Department of Justice
found that around one in five women
are targets of attempted or completed
sexual assault.
The Violence Against Women Reau-
thorization Act of 2019 increases fund-
ing for grants to combat violent crimes
on campuses and allocates funding to
train campus health centers to recog-
nize and to respond to these crimes.
My amendment directs the Secretary
of Education to study and submit a re-
port to Congress on best practices re-
garding the prevention of domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault,
and stalking on college campuses. This
includes an evaluation of programs,
events, and educational materials re-
lated to preventing acts of violence and
harassment.
Preventing violence against young
people on college campuses starts with
education. Sharing information for
best practices and guidance for edu-
cators on college campuses opens the
door for collaborative work among ex-
perts in intimate partner and sexual vi-
olence prevention.
My amendment does not change the
enforcement and implementation re-
sponsibilities of the Department of
Education. Congress needs a report on
best practices for prevention of these
acts of violence, not on the agency’s re-
cent efforts to change regulations and
requirements under Title IX.
None of us can address sexual and do-
mestic violence on our own. That is
why this amendment provides a com-
monsense approach toward solving the
problem by forcing the agency to con-
tinue to review best practices and pre-
vention methods for combating acts of
violence.
Colleges and universities, sexual vio-
lence prevention experts, and the Fed-
eral Government should share re-
sources and information, learn from
their peers, and take steps toward
eradicating sexual and domestic vio-
lence altogether.
When it comes to the safety of our
students, we cannot afford to work in
silos. Every student deserves to feel
safe in their community and we must
be proactive and collaborative in our
work to end sexual and domestic vio-
lence on our college campuses.
I urge my colleagues to support this
amendment and support the underlying
bill.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Minnesota (Mrs.
CRAIG).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 34 OFFERED BY MS. SCHRIER
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 34 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Ms. SCHRIER. Mr. Chairman, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 44, line 14, insert after ‘‘profes-
sionals’’ the following: ‘‘, including special-
ists in trauma and in behavioral health
care,’’.
Page 44, line 17, strike ‘‘and stalking’’ and
insert the following: ‘‘stalking, and children
exposed to violence’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from Washington (Ms. SCHRIER) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Washington.
Ms. SCHRIER. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I am pleased to offer this
amendment to the Violence Against
Women Act along with my colleagues,
Representatives LAUREN UNDERWOOD
and also Representative DONNA
SHALALA.
This amendment would help increase
the number of healthcare professionals
who are able to assist children exposed
to violence and also ensures that trau-
ma and behavioral healthcare special-
ists are included in efforts to address
domestic and dating violence, sexual
assault, stalking, and childhood expo-
sure to violence.
The long-term effects of childhood
exposure to adverse experiences, which
include domestic and sexual violence
that go unaddressed, are chilling. Chil-
dren exposed to violence, when they be-
come adults, are more likely to have
addictive behaviors, to drop out of
school, and to be violent themselves.
The effects of these adverse experi-
ences can be mitigated through coun-
seling and other intervention services,
which is why my amendment would re-
quire funding authorized under this
section to be used to increase the num-
ber of social workers, psychologists,
psychiatrists, trauma specialists, and
others who are trained in counseling
children exposed to violence.
As a pediatrician, I know firsthand
that if we treat adverse childhood expe-
riences early, we can mitigate the cost-
ly long-term effects that occur later in
life.
I urge my colleagues to support this
amendment.
Mr. Chair, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Illinois (Ms. UNDERWOOD).
Ms. UNDERWOOD. Mr. Chairman, I
rise today in support of this amend-
ment, which I coauthored with my col-
league from Washington.
A female pediatrician and female
nurse working together to write legis-
lation, this has literally never hap-
pened before in this body.
b 1915
Our amendment ensures that trauma
and behavioral health specialists are
included as healthcare professionals in
the section of this bill intended to
strengthen our healthcare system’s re-
sponse to domestic violence.
Behavioral healthcare, of course, in-
cludes mental health as well as treat-
ment for substance abuse disorders.
Both are particularly important to vic-
tims of domestic violence, sexual as-
sault, dating violence, and stalking.
Mental healthcare can be lifesaving for
domestic violence survivors. Survivors
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.130 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3059
April 3, 2019
are three times more likely to meet
criteria for post-traumatic stress dis-
order. They are also more likely to
have suicidal thoughts and to attempt
suicide. Mothers who experience do-
mestic violence are nearly twice as
likely to develop post-partum depres-
sion than those who don’t.
Access for treatment for substance
abuse is also critical for domestic vio-
lence survivors. Survivors experience
substance abuse disorders at rates two
to six times higher than average.
Violence against women isn’t just a
women’s issue. It is a children’s issue,
it is a men’s issue, it is a family issue,
and it is an economic issue. That is
why it is so important that our
healthcare system take a comprehen-
sive approach to its response.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
on both sides of the aisle to support
our amendment.
Ms. SCHRIER. Mr. Chairman, I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Washington (Ms.
SCHRIER).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 35 OFFERED BY MS.
UNDERWOOD
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 35 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Ms. UNDERWOOD. Mr. Chairman, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 142, insert after line 4 the following:
SEC. 1002. REPORT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ON THE EFFECTS OF THE SHUT-
DOWN.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this title, the Attorney Gen-
eral shall submit a report to Congress on the
effects of the Federal Government shutdown
that lasted from December 22, 2018 to Janu-
ary 25, 2019, evaluating and detailing the ex-
tent of the effect of the shutdown on the
ability of the Department of Justice to dis-
perse funding and services under the Vio-
lence Against Women Act of 1994, the Vio-
lence Against Women and Department of
Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, and the
Victims of Crime Act of 1984, to victims of
domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, and stalking.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from Illinois (Ms. UNDERWOOD) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Illinois.
Ms. UNDERWOOD. Mr. Chairman,
the recent Federal Government shut-
down was the longest in our Nation’s
history. It was reckless, and it was
dangerous. It hurt our Nation’s secu-
rity, it hurt Federal workers, and it
hurt our most vulnerable populations,
including survivors of domestic vio-
lence and abuse.
My amendment would direct the De-
partment of Justice to report to Con-
gress the effects of the shutdown on
DOJ’s efforts to disburse VAWA and
VOCA funding. This funding provides
services to prevent and respond to do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sex-
ual assault, and stalking.
This amendment is in direct response
to months of conversations with do-
mestic violence shelters and agencies
that serve my community in Illinois’s
14th District and to the urgent need in
all of our districts.
I am thankful to my colleagues from
Illinois and Pennsylvania for their sup-
port as cosponsors.
Over the past month, we have worked
to understand how the shutdown af-
fected our ability to respond to domes-
tic violence. Let’s be clear. Everyone
wants domestic violence victims to get
the support they need. But that didn’t
happen during the shutdown, and we
don’t know why not. We have been told
there was about a 2-week period at the
beginning of the shutdown where DOJ
employees who help process VAWA and
VOCA grants weren’t able to work. We
know grantees were warned about a
delay in processing their funding, and
we have been told that those DOJ em-
ployees were expected and allowed to
return to work at some point during
the shutdown.
But that is not enough. We need to
know what happened so that we can
make sure it doesn’t happen again.
I want to share the stories that I am
hearing from shelters in my district
about how the shutdown affected them,
because their experiences are unaccept-
able. Family Shelter Service, a domes-
tic violence agency, serves my con-
stituents in DuPage County, Illinois.
During the shutdown, they had to turn
away 138 members of my community
who were seeking safety at the shelter.
Because of the shutdown, Family Shel-
ter Service had to hold off on filling
four open positions for employees that
were funded by VAWA and VOCA.
Three of these positions were for child
counselors. The shelter reports that
this directly led to a decrease in the
number of children whom they were
able to help.
I also represent McHenry County in
Illinois. It is a big county, but it only
has one domestic violence agency
called Turning Point. In 2018 alone,
Turning Point served more than 1,700
people, and 170 of those were children.
Fifteen percent of Turning Point’s
funding comes from VOCA. They
shared with me that because of the
shutdown, they had to stop referring
survivors for individual counseling be-
cause of the lack of resources.
Now, Illinois has some supplemental
sources of domestic violence funding,
but many States rely almost com-
pletely on Federal funding. Failure to
maintain and protect these Federal
funding streams literally puts lives at
risk.
Resources for domestic violence sur-
vivors and the organizations that help
them are already stretched too far and
too thin. It is our fiscal and moral re-
sponsibility to ensure that their fund-
ing is not interrupted again.
Mr. Chairman, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support my amendment, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Illinois (Ms. UNDER-
WOOD).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 36 OFFERED BY MR. CASTEN OF
ILLINOIS
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 36 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois. Mr. Chair-
man, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as
follows:
Page 38, line 24, insert after ‘‘centers’’ the
following: ‘‘and appropriate campus faculty,
such as academic advisors or professionals
who deal with students on a daily basis,’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from Illinois (Mr. CASTEN) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Illinois.
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois. Mr. Chair-
man, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Chairman, I rise to offer amend-
ment No. 36 to H.R. 1585, the Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act.
My amendment would ensure that
campus faculty are trained to recog-
nize victims of sexual and domestic vi-
olence. Specifically, this legislation
amends the bill to include ‘‘appropriate
campus faculty, such as academic advi-
sors or professionals who deal with stu-
dents on a daily basis’’ for grant train-
ing programs to recognize and respond
to domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, and stalking. This
would include training health providers
on how to provide universal education
to all members of the campus commu-
nity on the impacts of violence on
health and unhealthy relationships and
how providers can support ongoing out-
reach efforts.
Now, going off to school can be a
wonderful opportunity for our children.
But sexual and domestic violence on
college campuses is horrific and must
be addressed. We know that of under-
graduate students, 23.1 percent of fe-
males and 5.4 percent of males experi-
ence rape or sexual assault during their
time on campus.
But all too often, those students do
not report to law enforcement. Only 20
percent of female student victims re-
port their experience. Some don’t re-
port because they fear reprisal, others
don’t think it was important enough,
and some don’t even believe that police
could or would do anything to help.
We cannot eradicate sexual violence
on campus if we can’t even reach the
students who are being impacted. We
are failing them.
That is why this amendment to in-
clude campus faculty in training pro-
grams to help them identify signs of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.135 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3060 April 3, 2019
sexual and domestic violence is so nec-
essary. If students feel that they can-
not report these crimes, then we must
have knowledgeable and trained fac-
ulty in place to provide help if it is
needed.
Recently I went to a panel at Bene-
dictine University in Illinois, and I got
to hear directly from campus faculty
about this specific issue and from stu-
dents on the unique needs on college
campuses. There are really specific
challenges, as Congresswoman UNDER-
WOOD was mentioning. We have limited
but flawed procedures in place for peo-
ple who need shelter when they are vic-
tims of domestic violence. That is real-
ly hard on a college campus.
What do you do for someone when
they are in a dorm room and everybody
knows where the dorms are on campus?
What do you do to change their
schedule if there is only one section of
the class they need to take?
What can schools do when a survivor
doesn’t feel safe to go to class?
I was honored at the time to speak
with Bernadette Muloski, Benedictine’s
Violence Against Women Act Grant Co-
ordinator. She pointed out that when
schools provide more information and
resources for reporting and speaking
openly about these issues, then it often
leads to higher numbers of reports—not
because violence is happening more
often, but because people finally feel
safe to come forward.
Now, it is so important for the first
person that a student confides in to
have an appropriate reaction, because
that disclosure often has a huge impact
on the survivor’s healing. It is also
impactful on how the student decides
to move forward, either in reporting or
seeking additional assistance such as
counseling and support.
So if the first person does not re-
spond with empathy and gives an indi-
cation that they don’t care or maybe
doesn’t know what to do and doesn’t
know where the resources are on cam-
pus, the student may never tell an-
other person or may struggle with
that, and the perpetrator may go on to
commit more violence.
On college campuses students often
develop mentor relationships with fac-
ulty or staff beyond the health depart-
ment that they are working with, and
it is more likely that a survivor will
disclose their experience to someone
they know as opposed to a stranger.
That is why we have to get this right.
This amendment would provide the
resources to train all of those faculty
who interact with students, and by pro-
viding resources to schools so that
they can individualize their response to
sexual and domestic violence, we will
enable them to better meet the unique
challenges of those students. This is
particularly true for underserved com-
munities. Coordinated, comprehensive
responses allow college communities to
develop sustainable strategies to ad-
dress these crimes.
For colleges and universities to curb
sexual violence on campus, we must
create the safe, respectful, collegiate
learning and teaching environment
that every student and employee de-
serves.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to support my amendment which will
not only provide resources for college
and university faculty, but also the
support that students need and de-
serve.
Mr. Chairman, I thank Representa-
tive BASS for authoring this bill, and I
thank all the tireless advocates who
have worked to bring us to this day.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment, please sup-
port this bill, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. CASTEN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 37 OFFERED BY MS. PORTER
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 37 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Ms. PORTER. I have an amendment
at the desk, Mr. Chairman.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 11, line 24, strike ‘‘and’’.
Page 15, line 12, strike the period at the
end and insert ‘‘; and’’.
Page 15, insert after line 12 the following:
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—For purposes
of this Act, nothing may be construed to pre-
clude the term ‘domestic violence’ from in-
cluding economic abuse each place the term
‘domestic violence’ occurs unless doing so
would trigger an extension of effective date
under section 703(f)(1)(B) of the Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act of
2019.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from California (Ms. PORTER) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Chairman, I am
honored to be here today to introduce
my amendment to the Violence
Against Women Act, which integrates
the term ‘‘economic abuse’’ throughout
the legislation. I wrote this amend-
ment to ensure that this largely invis-
ible abuse is recognized federally, and
victims are afforded all of the protec-
tions offered under VAWA.
Over one-quarter of women and 11
percent of men have experienced sexual
violence, physical violence, or stalking
by an intimate partner in their life-
times. I am one of them.
I suffered domestic violence, and
every year, millions suffer in silence
for many reasons, but one of the most
prominent among those reasons is eco-
nomic necessity. According to a study
conducted in 2012, 74 percent of sur-
vivors stayed with their abuser for fi-
nancial reasons.
Financial abuse through consumer
credit still has not been appropriately
recognized under the law. Using debt to
exercise coercive control is one of the
most prevalent and nefarious forms of
domestic violence. In a Michigan State
study, 99 percent of domestic violence
victims reported some form of eco-
nomic abuse.
Economic abuse takes many forms,
ranging from employment sabotage to
malicious attempts to restrict sur-
vivor’s access to funds.
Threats of violence cause women to
take time off from school or work and
interfere with their abilities to main-
tain employment or complete their
educations.
Abusers obstruct childcare and trans-
portation options to disrupt job and
academic performance, stealing vic-
tim’s keys, and leaving children inten-
tionally unattended. They cut off ac-
cess to financial information to keep
their partner in a state of financial de-
pendence and unable to leave. They
commit identity theft to run up credit
card debt and ruin their partner’s cred-
it scores, taking out loans in their
partner’s name that the victim knows
nothing about and cannot pay off.
In intimate partner relationships, on
average, physical violence victims lose
7 days of paid employment, rape vic-
tims lose 8, and stalking victims lose 10
per year.
b 1930
For the rest of their lives, these sur-
vivors are less financially secure be-
cause they endured an abusive rela-
tionship.
Abusers often take advantage of
their heightened degree of financial so-
phistication relative to their partner’s.
They don’t tell their partners about
the assets the couple owns, and they
force their partners to sign quitclaim
deeds and give up ownership in major
assets like homes without knowing it.
Coerced debt follows victims of do-
mestic violence for the rest of their
lives, long after they have left the rela-
tionship. It is particularly destructive
in the weeks after these women leave,
when they try to rent an apartment or
otherwise provide for themselves finan-
cially.
Burdening a woman with economic
obligations that she did not take on as
she is trying to escape an abusive rela-
tionship can be as crippling to her
long-term well-being as violence.
Credit repair is an almost impossible
process. Expunging coerced debt from a
victim’s credit report, even with exten-
sive evidence of fraud, is an intractable
task, which is why I will be intro-
ducing legislation to provide a way for-
ward for women whose credit scores are
ruined as a result of domestic violence.
I endured an abusive relationship,
and my three children and I were able
to move forward with our lives, staying
in our community and in our home. I
had a good job; I had a strong credit
history; and I was extremely engaged
with our family’s financial decisions,
which allowed me to leave when I need-
ed to.
However, without a substantial safe-
ty net, many women can’t and don’t
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.139 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3061
April 3, 2019
leave. When they do leave, almost 40
percent of survivors become homeless.
This is wholly unacceptable.
Until we address the full spectrum of
abuse that survivors face, we won’t sig-
nificantly reduce rates of domestic vio-
lence. And for so long as domestic vio-
lence is a glaringly prevalent problem
in our society, we will not see gender
equality.
Incorporating economic abuse into
the definition of domestic violence in
this landmark Federal legislation is a
huge step.
I am honored to have the opportunity
to carry the voices of Orange County
families and survivors to the Halls of
Congress.
I found help to let my family rebuild
our lives. A police officer who had been
trained in DV because of VAWA helped
create the amazing, healthy children I
have. I will count the passage of VAWA
among my proudest achievements.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from California (Ms. POR-
TER).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 38 OFFERED BY MR. ROSE OF
NEW YORK
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 38 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mr. ROSE of New York. Mr. Chair-
man, I rise today in support of my
amendment to expand national domes-
tic violence hotlines.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 171, insert after line 2 the following
(and conform the table of contents accord-
ingly):
SEC. 1408. NATIONAL DOMESTIC VIOLENCE HOT-
LINE.
Not later than 3 months after the date of
enactment of this Act, a national domestic
violence hotline for which a grant is pro-
vided under section 313 of the Family Vio-
lence Prevention and Services Act shall in-
clude the voluntary feature of texting via
telephone to ensure all methods of commu-
nication are available for victims and those
seeking assistance.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentleman
from New York (Mr. ROSE) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
Mr. ROSE of New York. Mr. Chair-
man, when you consider hotlines
today, we have to think about the fact
that text messages are absolutely im-
portant, and they are also, all too
often, ignored.
We need to evolve. We need to fix the
new problems of today as well as the
problems of the future.
As a subcommittee chairman of the
Homeland Security Committee and as
one of the younger Members of this
body, I understand that the advent of
social networks and technology has, in
many ways, helped us track and iden-
tify bad actors. But as we have heard
from survivors of domestic violence, it
also allows abuse, coercion, stalking,
and intimidation in more ways than
ever before.
Survivors need the necessary tools to
keep themselves safe. When a woman is
being constantly monitored by her
abuser, is unable to hide, and finds her-
self trapped, a phone call could put her
life in even more danger.
This is why I implore my colleagues
to support this amendment, because we
are talking life and death here. This is
not only a matter of believing sur-
vivors—though, to be clear, we abso-
lutely must. This is about making sure
that we empower survivors with the re-
sources they need in the 21st century,
no matter what age they are.
It breaks my heart to know that
those hiding from their abusers could
be a young college student or even a
teenager in high school. A recent study
on intimate partner violence found
that 1 in 10 high school students have
experienced physical violence from dat-
ing a partner in a given year. Nearly
one in three women in college have
said they have been in an abusive dat-
ing relationship.
If these statistics do not highlight
the need for Congress to provide as
much relief as we possibly can, I don’t
know what does.
Making sure women in crisis can
quickly and easily get help by texting
the crisis hotline should be a no-
brainer. The technology exists, and it
has been proven to be effective by
other organizations helping those in
need. This isn’t rocket science.
If we apply modern-day technology
to combat dating violence and sexual
assault, we can keep survivors and
their families safe while holding the
perpetrators accountable.
It is our job to make sure that our
federally funded hotlines can serve in
the most effective way. We need to get
this done because, at the end of the
day, this amendment will save lives.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. ROSE).
The amendment was agreed to.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Chair, I move that
the Committee do now rise.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
MALINOWSKI) having assumed the chair,
Mr. ROSE of New York, Acting Chair of
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union, reported that
that Committee, having had under con-
sideration the bill (H.R. 1585) to reau-
thorize the Violence Against Women
Act of 1994, and for other purposes, had
come to no resolution thereon.
f
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMORROW
Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Massachusetts?
There was no objection.
f
IN SUPPORT OF VAWA
(Ms. PRESSLEY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of the Violence
Against Women Act, VAWA.
I rise today to bring our stories out
of the shadows. Let us reject the myth
that strong women, bold women, inde-
pendent women do not find themselves
in the throes of violence at the hands
of someone who claims to love them.
My mother, my shero, found herself
in such an abusive relationship, one
that threatened her physical safety and
her sanity, and chipped away at her
dignity and her joy.
As a child, to witness the abuse and
degradation of the person who is your
world, your everything, it is an image,
a feeling, that never leaves.
To the millions of women who find
themselves in the shoes of my mother
and to the countless daughters who
find themselves looking on: I see you. I
am fighting for you and all the Sandys
out there.
My mom, Sandy, depending on the
day, was beaten for being too pretty,
too ugly, too smart, too dumb. This
man beat my mother’s limbs and tried
to beat down her spirit. His abuse was
the deepest of betrayals.
For the stories that we share here
today, if they make people uncomfort-
able, good. Let that discomfort lead to
transformation, transformation in our
discourse, transformation in our law-
making, and a renewed commitment to
our shared humanity.
No more.
Mommy, this one is for you.
f
AMERICA’S ECONOMIC FUTURE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Ari-
zona (Mr. SCHWEIKERT) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
minority leader.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, I
promise not to go 60 minutes.
Continuing the series we have been
trying to do on a much more, shall we
call it, wholistic policy of how to get a
sort of unified theory of what will
make America’s economy, opportunity,
our ability to pay for our promises,
particularly over the next 30-some
years, when our baby boomers are in
their retirement years.
This is, actually, sort of just another
module on trying to help sell, educate,
convince, cajole, on that idea.
We always start with this particular
poster now that our belief is you sort
of have five pillars on what we must do
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.142 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3062 April 3, 2019
almost immediately to have the eco-
nomic growth and the mechanics to be
able to keep our promises.
Remember, basic math: We have 74
million baby boomers. We are now
about halfway through that 18-year
cycle turning 65.
In 81⁄2 years is the final portion of the
baby boom turning 65. In 81⁄2 years, half
the spending, less interest, coming out
of this body, so 50 percent of the spend-
ing will be to those 65 and older. In 81⁄2
years, there will be two workers for
every one person in retirement.
Understand what this means: If we
don’t have substantial economic
growth, substantial incentives to stay
in the workplace, and also a really dis-
ruptive cost curve in parts of
healthcare, I defy you to make the
math work.
b 1945
So we have actually sort of laid out
five principles of policy, and within
those policies, there are lots of moving
parts. We are going to talk a little bit
more of sort of the technology disrup-
tion, but we are going to talk the other
half of it from what we did 2 weeks ago.
But economic growth: What do you
do in a tax system? What do you do
with trade? What do you do with smart
regulations?
I have done presentations here about
crowdsourcing data as a much more el-
egant way to regulate; using block
chain to collect data in financial mar-
kets so you could actually have a much
more rational, much more reactive,
much faster regulatory environment.
We also have on here, I use the term,
‘‘population stability.’’ Remember
what has happened to the United
States birth rates and where we are
going and where we are predicted to go.
In the last 10 years, there are 4 mil-
lion children that we expected who are
not here. That is functionally 4 full
years of immigration in 10. Are we will-
ing to actually say it is time to go to
a talent-based immigration system
with some flexibility in there to maxi-
mize population stability? And on the
other end, are we willing to also adopt
public policy that encourages family
formation?
It is math, and it is math about the
economic robustness of this society.
Earned benefits: We are going to have
to find ways that, as we keep our prom-
ises on Social Security, if we keep our
promises on Medicare, are there in-
ducements, incentives we can produce
to say: Are you willing to stay in the
workforce longer, part-time? If you are
healthy, happy, capable, we want you.
It makes a difference.
Are we able to give you certain in-
centives to postpone taking benefits to
actually help yourself, but also help
the programs as they function?
And then the last one under our five
pillars is employment. How do we
maximize, as a society, participation
in the workforce?
You know, we still have some data
issues on millennial males. What can
we do to help them get into the work-
force?
As you know, last December, we fi-
nally had a real breakthrough in some
of the data—we call it the U–6—em-
ployment data on millennial females
moving into the workforce. That is
part of it.
We also want to encourage older
Americans to stay in the workforce if
that is their choice.
But we also are starting to see some-
thing that is really exciting in the
labor statistics—I am sorry I am
geeking out, and I know I am sounding
like an accountant on steroids, but
these things are really important—is
our handicapped brothers and sisters.
People who have actually had sub-
stance abuse and other types of issues
are actually moving back into the
workforce.
Behind this microphone I have talked
about even the things going on in Ari-
zona right now, where we actually have
private, paid-for job training in our
prisons because there is such a labor
shortage, there is such a skilled labor
shortage in our community. That is ac-
tually wonderful.
I mean, if you care about people,
where we are at right now, our ability
to draw our brothers and sisters into
the labor force for that honor of work
is an amazing thing.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Ohio (Mr. STIVERS).
HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE OF UNITED
STATES ARMY SERGEANT JOSEPH P. COLLETTE
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Arizona for yield-
ing.
I rise today to commemorate one of
America’s heroes, United States Army
Sergeant Joseph P. Collette of Lan-
caster, Ohio.
Sergeant Collette gave his life in the
service of our Nation on March 22, 2019,
while serving in Afghanistan with the
242nd Ordnance Battalion, 71st Explo-
sive Ordnance Disposal Group.
Serving with the United States Army
was a goal for Sergeant Collette. On
September 11, Sergeant Collette was
only 11 years old, but on that tragic
day he felt the call of service. It is that
bravery, selflessness, and commitment
that Sergeant Collette will be remem-
bered for.
A man of many talents, he loved
sharing his passion for cooking with
others and challenging his friends to
paintball matches and Pokemon bat-
tles.
He loved spending time outdoors, but
he loved nothing more than spending
time with his friends and family, and
his legacy will live on in their memo-
ries.
As a brigadier general in the Ohio
Army National Guard, I have been
privileged to serve alongside men and
women like Sergeant Collette. I can
say without a doubt that Lancaster,
Ohio, and our Nation is a better and
safer place as a result of his service.
I am honored to celebrate his life and
legacy, and my heart goes out to his
entire family.
This country needs to recognize he-
roes like Joseph Collette, so I hope
that we all will take a moment of si-
lence to recognize the life of Joey
Collette.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker,
look, those are always hard to do, par-
ticularly, you know, when you want to
reach out to the families in your com-
munity and deal with those really dif-
ficult moments. So I appreciate the
gentleman, and I am always happy to
yield. He has always been very kind to
me here.
All right. Back on to trying to help
do our theme here. And I know it is a
little sarcastic, but it is sort of meant
to have a little impact. We often joke
that we are operating in a math-free
zone, and it is a great frustration.
One of the neat things that has hap-
pened over these first couple of months
as we have been doing this sort of uni-
fied theory pitch—and we keep trying
to say it is not Republican or Demo-
crat. It is math. A number of my
friends from the left have actually
started to stop by the office, particu-
larly on the technology, which I am
very excited, because there is a revolu-
tion happening around us.
So let’s actually sort of move on to
one or two more boards just to make
sure that we have built the argument.
On this particular board—and I have
shown this; I am going to keep showing
it—2008 to 2028, 91 percent of the in-
creased spending—so when you see that
curve going up between that 2008 and
2028, 91 percent, Social Security,
healthcare entitlements, and interest.
Social Security, the healthcare enti-
tlements, and interest—91 percent of
the growth in spending for those 20
years.
So when we get here behind these
microphones and we are often talking
about this or that, understand the vast
majority of what is driving our spend-
ing are our demographics. Our demo-
graphics are what drives Social Secu-
rity, Medicare, and the borrowing with-
in those drives a tremendous amount of
the percentage of the debt.
So how do you build a robust enough
economy and then enough optionality
in that growth with technology to also
bend the cost on healthcare?
So this particular slide is really im-
portant for us to get our heads around,
and this is the other side.
In the previous couple of weeks, we
have done a series of presentations
here on the floor about the technology
that is coming on everything from
wearables to autonomous healthcare to
being able to instantly have your flu
diagnosed, and can we build a system,
if we would take down some of the
legal barriers, where almost instantly
your antivirals can be delivered to you.
Think about blowing into something
that looks like a flu kazoo. It diag-
noses you. It pings off your personal
medical records and instantly can
order those antivirals.
How much healthier, how much more
time do you have for your life, for your
family?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.146 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3063
April 3, 2019
These are the types of disruptions we
as a body—and it is not Republican or
Democrat. It is where technology is
leading us, to make our lives more con-
venient. That precious commodity of
time is given back to you, and we be-
come healthier as a society while bend-
ing our healthcare costs.
Well, this particular slide makes it
very clear that we actually believe
about 75 percent of all of our spend-
ing—and we get this, I believe, from
the Centers for Disease Control. Sev-
enty-five percent of our healthcare
spending is for chronic conditions.
Okay. So we actually know where
our spending concentration is. So how
do we start to have a disruption in
that?
And if you actually look at the
growth of healthcare, this is basically
our spending in 2001 to 2017. But you
see that line just growing and growing
and growing.
Well, a lot of that, we will imme-
diately get people who say: Well, that
is pharmaceutical prices. Well, that is
this. That is this.
It is substantially our demographics
and then the procedures that come
along with that aging in society.
We will actually, in the future, if
there is a request for it, we will bring
some of those boards and actually do
more breakdown. But it is just under-
standing we cannot survive if this line
continues to grow in that fashion.
Additionally, and just understanding
these categories—and I am going to
push this back just a little bit because
this particular board may be
unreadable from a distance, but it is
really important.
What we are trying to explain here
is, the green bars, the small bars, think
of these as chronic conditions that
have never been diagnosed; the blue are
where they have been diagnosed; and
the total cost in our society.
When you look at this, what would
happen if I could come to you and say,
for a number of these, there are ways
to manage hypertension. There are
ways for someone like myself that is a
pretty severe asthmatic to manage my
asthma. There may be cures on the
very short horizon coming for many of
the diseases we consider chronic condi-
tions.
Part of what I want to talk about to-
night is the second half: How do we fi-
nance the miracles that this body in
previous years, when we did the
CURES Act, when we actually did the
specialty, the financing, the research
resources for orphan diseases—it is
starting to pay off. Many of the poli-
cies, actually, the Republican Members
here did in previous years with the pre-
vious President are starting to pay off.
So think about this—and I may have
my date wrong; I am desperately hop-
ing it is by the end of this year—a sin-
gle-shot cure for hemophilia A. So our
brothers and sisters, and there are only
about 8,000 in the United States who
have hemophilia, but it is a population
that is very expensive for the blood
clotting factor, for the other medical
maintenance for that population, for
our brothers and sisters.
How about a single shot that cures?
What would we, as a society, be willing
to pay for that curative?
How do we finance it? What if it is a
$1.5 million a shot? Let’s just sort of
theorize here.
But in about a 5-, 6-year period of
time, it has actually more than paid
for itself. Just, you know, the tyranny
of basic accounting: How do we say
today we want a system where we can
finance these disruptive pharma-
ceuticals so we can start to change
parts of these chronic populations so
we do something that is curative?
One of the discussions we have been
working on in our office for almost 2 or
3 years now is the concept of, we will
call it a healthcare bond that says we
are going to reach out, do a census of
the populations of, hey, these many in-
dividuals with this particular disease
that this pharmaceutical would cure or
dramatically improve their lives—some
are on Medicare; some are on Medicaid;
some are on private insurance; some
are at the VA. We need to do that cen-
sus and then do sort of an assessment
over time to have what would have
been their normal cost pay back that
bond.
The trickier policy set here—let’s go
back to our hemophilia example: 8,000
population, a single shot cures the dis-
ease. How do you price it?
This is going to be an intellectually
robust discussion we are going to have
to have. We have other things in our
society we price. A baseball player who
is phenomenal, you would do certain
types of arbitration.
We could actually take a look at ev-
erything from the research costs, to
the future benefits, to the incentives to
continue this type of research, to the
health benefits of having that popu-
lation cured.
There has got to be a formula we can
come up with as a society where we
continue to encourage these incredible
miracle disruptions that are on the ho-
rizon. We need more of them because
they start to solve this chart’s prob-
lem.
Remember the previous one, the pie
chart. Seventy-five percent of our
spending, functionally, is within those
chronic conditions. What happens if we
start to cure them, or at least a por-
tion of them?
It is time this body stops having the
crazy debate we have had here for the
last 10 years, which is the ACA. It is
even our Republican alternative, which
I believe had some great things in it.
But we have been having this debate
about who gets to pay. We have not
been having the discussion, the intel-
lectually honest discussion of what do
we do to pay less and provide more?
b 2000
That is my goal here. If these miracle
biologicals, if these miracle genetic
treatments, are coming, how do we get
them adopted into our society as fast
as possible?
In many ways, as we saw in the first
phase of the hep C cure—what was the
drug, Sovaldi? In that first year, year
and a half, it cost $84,000, I believe, but
it cured hepatitis C, meaning you did
not need a liver transplant. But what
happened? We had a number of our
State Medicaid systems that were on
the verge of going bankrupt.
The difference in that sort of phar-
maceutical is you had time before
someone became symptomatic where
liver transplant was indicated. And
then we knew there was a second phar-
maceutical with some of the same effi-
cacy coming.
What happens when there is not
going to be a second drug, because it is
a small population or it had such stun-
ning research costs?
We need to think through how we fi-
nance disruptions of those pharma-
ceuticals and how we also get a fair
pricing so the research continues. We
incentivize that, but also a fair pricing
to society, which is willing to put on
debt for a quick adoption and then use
the future savings.
So understand, what is neat about
this, if you actually look at these diag-
noses with serious chronic conditions,
a number of them can be partially ben-
efited by technology.
Once again, I am a pretty severe
asthmatic. We have played with a cou-
ple of contraptions that help me man-
age my blood oxygen.
What happens if that contraption can
talk to my phone and say: ‘‘Hey, David,
this morning, you really need to take
two puffs of your inhaled steroid.’’
‘‘Hey, David, we are doing some cal-
culations. Today, you don’t.’’
As you have already seen, you may
even have family members who are now
reading off their phones about their di-
abetes, because they have a port that is
reading their blood glucose.
Technology can help us manage a
number of these chronic conditions to
make them so they don’t crash, so they
are not catastrophic for the individual
and not expensive for society.
If you have hypertension, how many
of you may have an arrhythmia that
you now have a watch that will help
you manage? Those are on the tech-
nology side.
On some of these, it is the curative
that I really wanted to get into our un-
derstanding, the other half of the mir-
acle disruption that is coming in
healthcare.
We need, as policymakers, to under-
stand these are the benefits we are now
yielding because of a lot of really good
policy decisions this body made over
the last few years.
Let’s move on to a couple more
boards to try to help this argument be-
come a little more robust.
This was the best one I had, but let’s
go back to the hemophilia discussion.
Can we use this example that is on our
immediate horizon?
I believe they are already well in or
through their phase III. They have had,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.148 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3064 April 3, 2019
apparently, just from even the latest
article I pulled up a couple days ago,
amazing efficacy. It is curative for the
vast majority of the population, some-
thing we never really thought of.
Are we ready as a society to say: Can
we build the box of how we finance
these disruptions?
Let’s walk through a couple others.
How many of you have heard of some
of the gene therapies where we can
turn on your immune system, but we
turn it on in such a way—well, the
medical researchers, by understanding
the type of cancer you have, looking at
that cancer and saying, hey, here are
the receptors that your immune sys-
tem would do the most efficient—how
do I describe it?—the most efficient
method of killing those cancers. What
if that costs $250,000, $500,000, but it
cures?
How about in some of these cases?
Now we are looking at this particular
one. This is from earlier in the year or
late last year, a pharmaceutical bio-
logical that changes a genetic form of
blindness. You are born with this blind-
ness on your DNA, and it recodes your
DNA and brings back a substantial por-
tion of your sight. What is the value of
that?
There are some unique things. I be-
lieve it may be within this gene edit-
ing. Actually, it is really expensive. I
think it may have been $400,000 or
$500,000 for a certain number of the pa-
tients. It was almost you only paid if
we hit a certain level of returning your
sight.
What happens when we are able to do
more of this, that it is more than just
a disease you have developed, and we
are actually recoding parts of your own
personal genome to deal with a genetic
blindness that you were born with?
How much does this help society? How
much, as a society, are we willing to
pay?
When we pay it, is there a way we
can have a financing mechanism that
the adoption of such miracles happen
quickly, and we can reap the benefits
in future time? That is the concept for
the healthcare bond.
Let’s take one that actually is near
and dear to me. I am from the desert
Southwest. I am from the Phoenix-
Scottsdale area. I live in a little com-
munity called Fountain Hills, a won-
derful part of the country. I am incred-
ibly blessed for the community I get to
represent and live in.
But from the desert areas of Cali-
fornia through Maricopa County, Phoe-
nix, Pinal, all the way down to the
Tucson area, we have fungi in the soil.
We call it Valley Fever.
We believe one out of three people
who go to a hospital believing they
have pneumonia actually have the
fungi, have Valley Fever in their lungs.
For a small fraction of the popu-
lation, they don’t just feel like they
have pneumonia for a week or 2 or 3.
They get something, I believe the term
is ‘‘undifferentiated,’’ where it breaks
out and ends up in your bones.
I have a neighbor, a former Vietnam
helicopter pilot, one of the greatest
human beings you can ever meet. His
hands have been carved up from when
they have had to go in and remove the
fungi that is growing in his bones.
Leader MCCARTHY, KEVIN MCCARTHY,
because of the community he rep-
resents, and myself in the Scottsdale-
Phoenix area, a few years ago, we
started a Valley Fever Caucus for those
of us who live in the desert Southwest.
We have had some amazing success.
We have been able to move some re-
sources. We have gotten the folks back
East here to understand this very
unique regional disease we have. We
were able to move some money, and all
of a sudden, we now are hearing that
we may be 3 years from a vaccine for
animals.
This particular disease killed my
dog, Charlie, a few years ago.
But after the vaccine for our canines
and our pets, it is only a short time
after that, maybe just a handful of
years, that we will collect enough data
that we will have fungi vaccine for
something called Valley Fever for
those of us who live in the desert
Southwest.
These are examples. We believe a dis-
ease like that ultimately costs billions
in our communities for hospital visits,
for sick days, for all the things that go
with that.
What is the value of a vaccine that is
being developed for an orphan disease
like that that most folks back East
have never even heard of?
We have succeeded at moving the re-
sources around here in Congress over
the last few years to start these mir-
acles of the genomic and the other
types of research that are bringing
these miracles here.
Back to our primary conversation.
As we age as a society, our biggest cost
driver, particularly over the next 30
years, is healthcare. We have done
presentations here the last few weeks
on the technology miracles that are
coming, where you can manage your
own health. You don’t have to be part
of the collective. You can manage your
own health and have incredible data.
But we are going to have to break
down some of the old silos, some of the
old legislative barriers, some of the
barriers to entry.
The other half of that is how we con-
tinue to encourage these disruptive
biologicals, these disruptive genomics,
these disruptive drugs that are cura-
tive.
The one that was in our office a cou-
ple weeks ago, talking about ALS, it is
probably going to be a couple shots a
year, but it will freeze. You will hold
steady. So it is not curative, but it
stops the regression and the progres-
sion of the disease. What is the value
to that in our society?
These are big deals. As I reach out to
my Republican brothers and sisters and
my Democrats, help those of us who
understand these cures are not Repub-
lican or Democrat. We as a society
must come up with the mechanisms
that bring them out, finance them, and
then understand the debate here must
be about what we are doing to change
the price curve of healthcare at the
same time our demographics are get-
ting much older very, very, very fast.
We can do that.
It is a much more elegant discussion
than the absolutely ridiculous discus-
sion that continues to go on here be-
cause it works in our partisan format
where everything here has been
weaponized now politically of let’s
have a fine debate on who gets to pay,
how much government subsidy should
you receive.
Let’s do something really creative.
Let’s start lowering the price by bring-
ing technology, by bringing other
channels of exciting new pharma-
ceuticals, and even down to things that
are affecting the folks in my neighbor-
hood, a disease like Valley Fever,
where I now get to go home and say we
worked on it a few years ago. We were
not optimistic, but we kept working
and we kept working and we kept
working. There are brilliant people
down at the University of Arizona Cen-
ter for Excellence on Valley Fever.
There are researchers at NAU. There
are researchers in California who are
now almost there.
There should be joy in this body
when you start to think about the cusp
we are on. Will Congress be looked at
by someone 10, 20 years from now, say-
ing they did policy that actually made
these things happen faster? Or will we
continue to exist in a world where the
way we reimburse, the way we finance,
the way we regulate, the barriers to
entry of the technology, we slowed
down the disruption that could have
helped us lower healthcare costs?
These are the things we are fixated
on, because remember our five points:
We must have the robust economic
growth. We must have the labor force
participation. We must do the incen-
tives to, if someone wishes to stay in
the labor force and delay parts of their
retirement, how do we reward that? We
must do these others, but we also must
push these technologies, because our
biggest fragility is the healthcare
costs.
I think there are some great things
about to happen. Look, that is a por-
tion of the presentation. Hopefully, in
a couple weeks, we are going to come
back and we are going to do something
much more technical—I am sorry; I
know that is really exciting—on some
of those incentives to stay in the work-
force. But we need to understand, if
you have a complicated problem and
someone walks up to you and gives you
a really simple solution, it is abso-
lutely wrong, because complicated
problems require complicated solu-
tions.
That is where we are headed.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.150 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3065
April 3, 2019
b 2015
NATIONAL DONATE LIFE MONTH
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Louisiana (Mr. ABRA-
HAM) for 30 minutes.
Mr. ABRAHAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize April as National
Donate Life Month and the awareness
one Louisiana family has brought to
organ donation through the tragic loss
of their son.
On May 5, 2015, the Perry family,
from Monroe, welcomed twin babies,
John Clarke and Ella, to the world. All
was fine and well for the twins until
John Clarke was given the fatal diag-
nosis of a brain bleed shortly after
their 6-month checkup. On November
29, 2015, John Clarke passed away at
only 6 months old.
Before his death, his parents, Jona-
than and Holley, were approached
about donating John Clarke’s organs,
to which they agreed.
Meanwhile, 400 miles away in Au-
burn, Alabama, the Boswell family
faced a similarly heartbreaking situa-
tion. Their son Davis, who was born in
June 2015, had been diagnosed with
enterovirus, an infection that attacked
his heart. His only chance at survival
was an improbable heart transplant.
On a Sunday night in November,
Davis’ parents, Amanda and Tucker,
received a call saying that a match had
been found and that Davis would re-
ceive a heart. On November 29, 2015,
Davis underwent a successful heart
transplant.
A few days later, Amanda and Holley
were connected by a mutual friend on
Facebook and realized that Davis had
probably received John Clarke’s heart,
a fact confirmed by the hospital.
In April 2016, the Boswells and the
Perrys met at an event raising aware-
ness for organ donation. The two fami-
lies have continued to meet over the
years at the annual Auburn-LSU foot-
ball game, turning the rivalry game
into an opportunity to raise awareness
and funds for organ donation across the
country.
While this sequence of events could
have only been handcrafted by God,
organ donations save lives across the
country on a daily basis.
In 2018, 36,528 organ transplants were
performed, a record high for the sixth
consecutive year. On average, one
organ donor can save up to eight lives.
Through organ donation, John Clarke
saved two children’s lives.
Mr. Speaker, today, I recognize the
unspeakable tragedy that the Perrys
faced and their incredibly brave deci-
sion to donate John Clarke’s organs.
Through this heartbreaking decision,
John Clarke became a hero.
Today, John Clarke is remembered
by his family for his big blue eyes and
sweet smile, a smile his parents say
grew wider every time the LSU Tigers
and New Orleans Saints were on TV.
Like so many donors, John Clarke is
no longer with us, but his legacy lives
on in the bodies of those who received
his organs. Throughout the month of
April, I will be thinking of John
Clarke, the entire Perry family, and all
those who have given the gift of organ
donation as a final act of compassion.
HONORING MASON ANDREWS
Mr. ABRAHAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and honor Mason
Andrews, an 18-year-old from Monroe,
Louisiana, who was recently recognized
by the Guinness Book of World Records
as the youngest pilot to circumnavi-
gate the globe.
Mason is a junior at Louisiana Tech
University who set off on his trip
around the world on July 22 and re-
turned October 6 of 2018. He flew for 76
days in the spirit of Louisiana, a 1976
Piper Lance PA–32 single-engine air-
craft. Mason made over 20 stops around
the world, including Dubai, Paris, and
Taiwan. His longest leg of the journey
was the 14-hour, 2,150-mile stretch from
Japan to Alaska.
Mason flew not only to break a world
record, but to raise awareness and
funds for MedCamps of Louisiana.
MedCamps of Louisiana is a free sum-
mer camp for children with varying
disabilities or illnesses, such as autism,
spina bifida, and Down syndrome.
Mason has served as a camp coun-
selor for 3 years with MedCamps of
Louisiana and raised over $30,000 for
the camp during his flight. To raise
these funds and to break the world
record, Mason overcame all obstacles
he faced, including a sandstorm over
Saudi Arabia and two Category 5 ty-
phoons that kept him grounded for the
better part of September.
I am proud of what Mason was able
to accomplish and how he has rep-
resented the great State of Louisiana.
From one pilot to another, I congratu-
late Mason on his incredible achieve-
ment and look forward to what he will
accomplish next.
BORN-ALIVE SURVIVOR PROTECTION
Mr. ABRAHAM. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today about something that has really
been weighing on my mind, and that is
the disturbing push for late-term abor-
tions we have been seeing around the
country.
I am a doctor by trade. I have deliv-
ered many babies myself. I have seen
babies in the womb on ultrasound
wince in pain, and I have seen them
comforted by their mother’s voice.
That baby is every bit as alive then as
he or she is when a mother gets to hold
her or him for the first time.
I believe that life begins at concep-
tion. I believe adoption is always bet-
ter than abortion. And I certainly be-
lieve that delivering a baby in the
third trimester is far better for both
the mother and the baby than a late-
term abortion, which brings me back
to why I wanted to speak tonight.
The disturbing trend of codifying
protections for late-term abortions
must stop, and it will take Federal ac-
tion to ban it across the entire coun-
try.
We see what is happening at the
State level:
New York has passed a law that al-
lows abortions at any time—at any
time. That is outrageous, especially
considering that many babies can live
outside the womb around 20 weeks.
Virginia tried to pass a similar law.
Virginia Governor Ralph Northam, a
Democrat, who argued that babies
could be killed after birth if the moth-
er had preferred to abort it rather than
to birth it, said:
‘‘The infant would be delivered. The
infant would be kept comfortable. The
infant would be resuscitated if that’s
what the mother and family desired.
And then a discussion would ensue be-
tween the physicians and the mother.’’
That is disgusting. That is an en-
dorsement of a murder of a helpless
child, and we cannot stand for that.
I am a proud cosponsor of the Born-
Alive Survivors Protection Act, which
requires that babies who survive abor-
tions be given the same standard of
care as any person in medical need.
This is a commonsense approach be-
cause a baby is a person. Doctors are
sworn to help those in need, and I can-
not fathom how any medical provider
could watch a helpless baby struggling
outside the womb after she survives an
abortion.
Even still, Democrats are standing in
the way of ending this heinous prac-
tice. Republicans have tried nearly 30
times to bring to the floor a vote on
the Born-Alive Survivors Protection
Act, and Democrats have blocked it
every single time.
Thankfully, my colleagues, STEVE
SCALISE from my great State of Lou-
isiana and ANN WAGNER, have intro-
duced a discharge petition to go around
the Democratic leadership and force a
vote on this important bill.
I have signed the petition, and my
prayer is that the Chamber can come
together in a bipartisan way to state
firmly that the United States of Amer-
ica does not believe in killing babies,
especially after they are born.
Critics say that it is a woman’s
choice and that politicians are inter-
fering. If a baby is crying and he is cry-
ing out for help in an operating room,
that is a person, an individual who is
entitled to the same life, liberty, and
pursuit of happiness that every Amer-
ican is entitled to. Only the individual
can decide that path forward for them-
selves; it is not the choice of anyone
else; and a living, breathing baby de-
serves a chance to live.
They say this bill is unnecessary be-
cause it is already law, pointing to the
2002 Born-Alive Infants Protection Act
which codified into law that any person
born alive in any stage of development
is a legal person. Since that time, how-
ever, there have been cases where abor-
tion providers do not consider a baby
born if it survives an abortion.
The Born-Alive Survivors Protection
Act ends all debate and further pro-
tects babies who survive abortions. The
Born-Alive Survivors Protection Act is
a literal matter of life and death. It is
about the core values of what we as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.152 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3066 April 3, 2019
Americans and every single politician
in State and Federal Government
should clearly and definitely know:
where we stand on this important bill.
My position is clear: I stand with the
babies. I stand with life.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported and found truly en-
rolled a bill of the House of the fol-
lowing title, which was thereupon
signed by the Speaker:
H.R. 276. An act to direct the Secretary of
Education to establish the Recognizing In-
spiring School Employees (RISE) Award Pro-
gram recognizing excellence exhibited by
classified school employees providing serv-
ices to students in prekindergarten through
high school.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. ABRAHAM. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 8 o’clock and 26 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Thursday, April 4, 2019, at 9 a.m.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
592. A letter from the Acting Secretary,
Department of Defense, transmitting a letter
on the approved retirement of Lieutenant
General Joseph Anderson, and his advance-
ment to the grade of lieutenant general on
the retired list, pursuant to 10 U.S.C.
1370(c)(1); Public Law 96-513, Sec. 112 (as
amended by Public Law 104-106, Sec. 502(b));
(110 Stat. 293); to the Committee on Armed
Services.
593. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Navy, Department of Defense, transmitting a
report on an increase in the Average Pro-
curement Unit Cost (APUC) for the Offensive
Anti-Surface Warfare Increment 1 (Long
Range Anti-Ship Missile) (OASuW Inc. 1
(LRASM)) program that exceeds the current
baseline estimate by 23.5 percent, pursuant
to 10 U.S.C. 2433(d)(3); Public Law 97-252, Sec.
1107(a)(1) (as amended by Public Law 110-417,
Sec. 811(c)); (122 Stat. 4522); to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
594. A letter from the Director, Bureau of
Consumer Financial Protection, transmit-
ting the Bureau’s Office of Minority and
Women Inclusion Annual Report to Con-
gress, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5452(e); Public
Law 111-203, Sec. 342(e); (124 Stat. 1543); to
the Committee on Financial Services.
595. A letter from the Director, Bureau of
Consumer Financial Protection, transmit-
ting the Bureau’s Consumer Response An-
nual Report for CY 2018, pursuant to 12
U.S.C. 5493(b)(3)(C); Public Law 111-203, Sec.
1013(b)(3)(C); (124 Stat. 1969); to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
596. A letter from the Chairman, Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation, transmitting
the Corporation’s 2018 Annual Report of the
Office of Minority and Women Inclusion,
pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5452(e); Public Law 111-
203, Sec. 342(e); (124 Stat. 1543); to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
597. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel for Legislation, Regulation and En-
ergy Efficiency, Office of Management, De-
partment of Energy, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Cost Sharing: En-
ergy Policy Act of 2005 (RIN: 1991-AC13) re-
ceived April 2, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
598. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Zoxamide; Pesticide Tolerances
[EPA-HQ-OPP-2017-0665; FRL-9987-27] re-
ceived April 2, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
599. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Approval and Promulgation of
Air Quality Implementation Plans; Pennsyl-
vania; Delegation of Authority of the Fed-
eral Plan for Existing Sewage Sludge Incin-
eration Units [EPA-R03-OAR-2019-0065; FRL-
9991-56-Region 3] received April 2, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
600. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Metrafenone; Pesticide Toler-
ances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2017-0616; FRL-9987-14]
received April 2, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
601. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Outer Continental Shelf Air
Regulations; Consistency Update for Dela-
ware [EPA-R03-OAR-2009-0238; FRL-9990-18-
Region 3] received April 2, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
602. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Quality State Implementa-
tion Plans: Arizona; Approval and Condi-
tional Approval of State Implementation
Plan Revisions; Maricopa County Air Qual-
ity Department; Stationary Source Permits
[EPA-R09-OAR-2017-0481; FRL-9991-53-Region
9] received April 2, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
603. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; NC: Readop-
tion of Air Quality Rules and Removal of
Oxygenated Gasoline Rules [EPA-R04-OAR-
2018-0301; FRL-9991-63-Region 4] received
April 2, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
604. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — Air Plan Approval; ID, Kraft
Pulp Mill Rule Revisions [EPA-R10-OAR-
2018-0769; FRL-9991-71-Region 10] received
April 2, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
605. A letter from the Director, Bureau of
Consumer Financial Protection, transmit-
ting the Bureau’s FY 2018 No FEAR Act re-
port, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 2301 note; Public
Law 107-174, 203(a) (as amended by Public
Law 109-435, Sec. 604(f)); (120 Stat. 3242); to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
606. A letter from the Staff Director, Fed-
eral Election Commission, transmitting the
Commission’s FY 2018 No FEAR Act report,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 2301 note; Public Law
107-174, 203(a) (as amended by Public Law 109-
435, Sec. 604(f)); (120 Stat. 3242); to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
607. A letter from the General Counsel,
Government Accountability Office, trans-
mitting the Office’s FY 2018 No FEAR Act
report, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 2301 note; Public
Law 107-174, 203(a) (as amended by Public
Law 109-435, Sec. 604(f)); (120 Stat. 3242); to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
608. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Equal Employment Opportunity Pro-
grams, National Archives and Records Ad-
ministration, transmitting the Administra-
tion’s FY 2018 No FEAR Act report, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 2301 note; Public Law 107-174,
203(a) (as amended by Public Law 109-435,
Sec. 604(f)); (120 Stat. 3242); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Mr.
MCKINLEY):
H.R. 2043. A bill to provide for the estab-
lishment of a Home Energy Savings Retrofit
Rebate Program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on Ways
and Means, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. WELCH (for himself and Mr.
KINZINGER):
H.R. 2044. A bill to accelerate smart build-
ing development, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committees on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure, and Science,
Space, and Technology, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. WENSTRUP (for himself, Mr.
LEVIN of California, Mr. DAVID P. ROE
of Tennessee, and Mr. BILIRAKIS):
H.R. 2045. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to establish the Veterans Eco-
nomic Opportunity and Transition Adminis-
tration and the Under Secretary for Vet-
erans Economic Opportunity and Transition
of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. WRIGHT (for himself, Mr.
MCCAUL, and Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas):
H.R. 2046. A bill to amend the State De-
partment Basic Authorities Act of 1956 re-
garding energy diplomacy and security with-
in the Department of State, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee (for him-
self and Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 2047. A bill to require annual reports
on allied contributions to the common de-
fense, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Mr. CICILLINE, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, Ms. MOORE,
Mr. COHEN, Ms. NORTON, Ms. MENG,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K03AP7.153 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3067
April 3, 2019
Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. MCNERNEY,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms.
TITUS, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. RASKIN, Ms.
CASTOR of Florida, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Ms. ESHOO, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. JAYAPAL,
Mr. BEYER, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
HAALAND, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
DELAURO, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
RYAN, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms. KELLY of
Illinois, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
KILDEE, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. DEAN,
Mrs. TORRES of California, Mr. RUSH,
Mr. POCAN, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
Mr. GREEN of Texas, Ms. FRANKEL,
and Mr. REED):
H.R. 2048. A bill to prohibit the pricing of
consumer products and services that are sub-
stantially similar if such products or serv-
ices are priced differently based on the gen-
der of the individuals for whose use the prod-
ucts are intended or marketed or for whom
the services are performed or offered; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. BURGESS:
H.R. 2049. A bill to reduce the amount of
foreign assistance to El Salvador, Guate-
mala, and Honduras based on the number of
unaccompanied alien children who are na-
tionals or citizens of such countries and who
in the preceding fiscal year are placed in
Federal custody by reason of their immigra-
tion status; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Mr. YARMUTH (for himself, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms.
DEGETTE, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr.
TONKO, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. BEYER, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. KHANNA, and Ms. MCCOL-
LUM):
H.R. 2050. A bill to place a moratorium on
permitting for mountaintop removal coal
mining until health studies are conducted by
the Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources, and in addition
to the Committees on Transportation and In-
frastructure, and Energy and Commerce, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself and Mr.
MOOLENAAR):
H.R. 2051. A bill to provide for Federal co-
ordination of activities supporting sustain-
able chemistry, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology, and in addition to the Committee on
the Budget, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. COMER:
H.R. 2052. A bill to amend the Intermodal
Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of
1991 with respect to a portion of the Wendell
H. Ford (Western Kentucky) Parkway, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for
himself and Mr. CALVERT):
H.R. 2053. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to exclude from gross in-
come amounts received from State-based
earthquake loss mitigation programs; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr.
COLLINS of Georgia, and Mr.
DESAULNIER):
H.R. 2054. A bill to provide a temporary
safe harbor for the publishers of online con-
tent to collectively negotiate with dominant
online platforms regarding the terms on
which their content may be distributed; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CLYBURN (for himself, Ms.
BASS, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. CLAY, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr.
COX of California, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr.
MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. EVANS, Ms.
FUDGE, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. HASTINGS,
Mr. HORSFORD, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
JEFFRIES, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. KELLY of Il-
linois, Mr. LANGEVIN, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. LEWIS, Mrs. MCBATH, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MOORE,
Ms. NORTON, Ms. OMAR, Mr. PANETTA,
Ms. PLASKETT, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
RYAN, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr.
SOTO, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi,
Mr. VEASEY, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and Ms.
WILSON of Florida):
H.R. 2055. A bill to provide an increased al-
location of funding under certain programs
for assistance in persistent poverty counties,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure, and in
addition to the Committees on the Judici-
ary, Energy and Commerce, Education and
Labor, Science, Space, and Technology, Ag-
riculture, Foreign Affairs, Financial Serv-
ices, and Natural Resources, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mrs. BUSTOS (for herself, Mr.
GIANFORTE, Mrs. AXNE, Mr.
BALDERSON, Mr. MOULTON, Mr.
RASKIN, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. CLARK
of Massachusetts, Mr. KEATING, and
Mr. MCGOVERN):
H.R. 2056. A bill to recognize and honor the
service of individuals who served in the
United States Cadet Nurse Corps during
World War II, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Armed Services,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MCNERNEY:
H.R. 2057. A bill to direct the Attorney
General to enter into an agreement with the
National Academies to conduct a study to
develop guidelines, best practices, and exam-
ples for congressional redistricting; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. AGUILAR (for himself and Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ):
H.R. 2058. A bill to amend the Workforce
Innovation and Opportunity Act to remove
certain restrictions on advertising and pub-
lic relations, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mrs. AXNE (for herself and Ms.
FINKENAUER):
H.R. 2059. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make permanent the
second generation biofuel producer credit; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. BANKS (for himself, Ms. CHE-
NEY, Ms. STEFANIK, and Mr. WALTZ):
H.R. 2060. A bill to provide oversight over
talks between the United States and the
Taliban, limit the use of funds to reduce the
total number of members of the Armed
Forces serving on active duty who are de-
ployed to Afghanistan until certain condi-
tions on the ground are fulfilled, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Armed
Services, and in addition to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. BERA (for himself, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Miss RICE of New York,
Mr. CISNEROS, Ms. WILD, and Mr.
SCHRADER):
H.R. 2061. A bill to facilitate the efforts of
States to establish auto-enrollment systems
to enroll certain individuals in health insur-
ance coverage, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committee on Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself,
Mr. MULLIN, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. WAL-
DEN, Mr. PETERS, Mr. CARTER of
Georgia, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. KELLY of
Pennsylvania, Mr. MOULTON, Mr.
JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr. ROUDA,
Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. HOLD-
ING, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr.
LARSEN of Washington, Mr. JOHNSON
of Ohio, Mr. EVANS, Mr. BILIRAKIS,
and Ms. SEWELL of Alabama):
H.R. 2062. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to protect the confiden-
tiality of substance use disorder patient
records; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. CÁRDENAS (for himself, Mrs.
BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. VELA, and Mr.
BANKS):
H.R. 2063. A bill to prohibit the President
or a Federal agency from constructing, oper-
ating, or offering wholesale or retail services
on broadband networks without authoriza-
tion from Congress, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California (for
herself and Mr. NUNES):
H.R. 2064. A bill to amend title XI of the
Social Security Act to require manufactur-
ers of certain drugs, devices, biologicals, and
medical supplies to report on product sam-
ples provided to certain health care pro-
viders, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 2065. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 in order to increase usage
of the Federal student loan income-based re-
payment plan and improve repayment op-
tions for borrowers, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Education and Labor,
and in addition to the Committees on Ways
and Means, and Financial Services, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 2066. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to establish the Intel-
ligence Rotational Assignment Program in
the Department of Homeland Security, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security.
By Mr. GUEST:
H.R. 2067. A bill to improve the coordina-
tion of programs to provide trade capacity
building assistance, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. GUEST:
H.R. 2068. A bill to modify the authoriza-
tion to provide assistance to certain foreign
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L03AP7.100 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3068 April 3, 2019
police and law enforcement forces, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
By Mr. HORSFORD (for himself and
Mr. REED):
H.R. 2069. A bill to amend title XI of the
Social Security Act to provide for drug man-
ufacturer price transparency; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. LAMB (for himself, Mr. JOYCE
of Ohio, and Mr. TRONE):
H.R. 2070. A bill to provide grants to State,
local, territorial, and tribal law enforcement
agencies to purchase chemical screening de-
vices and train personnel to use chemical
screening devices in order to enhance law en-
forcement efficiency and protect law en-
forcement officers; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
H.R. 2071. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, with respect to the sale, pur-
chase, shipment, receipt, or possession of a
firearm or ammunition by a user of medical
marijuana, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. PETERSON (for himself and
Mr. STAUBER):
H.R. 2072. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to equalize the charitable
mileage rate with the business travel rate; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. PORTER (for herself and Mr.
MARCHANT):
H.R. 2073. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to permanently extend the
7.5 percent adjusted gross income floor for
the medical expense deduction; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. RYAN (for himself and Mr.
COLE):
H.R. 2074. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require the
label of a drug that is intended for human
use and contains an ingredient that is de-
rived directly or indirectly from a gluten-
containing grain to identify each such ingre-
dient, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. SARBANES (for himself, Mr.
TONKO, Ms. STEFANIK, and Mr.
UPTON):
H.R. 2075. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to reauthorize school-
based health centers, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. SCHRIER (for herself and Mr.
STIVERS):
H.R. 2076. A bill to establish a demonstra-
tion program to explore effective practices
to improve early detection and management
of injuries indicative of potential abuse in
infants under the age of 7 months, in order to
prevent future cases of child abuse and re-
lated fatalities; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for him-
self and Ms. BASS):
H.R. 2077. A bill to galvanize United States
Government programs in support of brain
health for global victims of autism, hydro-
cephalus and Alzheimer’s and other forms of
dementia, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. WOMACK:
H.R. 2078. A bill to prohibit the sale of food
that is, or contains, unsafe poppy seeds; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself, Mr.
KUSTOFF of Tennessee, Mr. DEUTCH,
Mr. ZELDIN, and Mr. LEWIS):
H. Con. Res. 31. Concurrent resolution au-
thorizing the use of Emancipation Hall for a
ceremony as part of the commemoration of
the days of remembrance of victims of the
Holocaust; to the Committee on House Ad-
ministration.
By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself, Mr.
ENGEL, and Ms. MENG):
H. Con. Res. 32. Concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress regarding the
execution-style murders of United States
citizens Ylli, Agron, and Mehmet Bytyqi in
the Republic of Serbia in July 1999; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. KILMER (for himself and Mr.
DUFFY):
H. Res. 285. A resolution recognizing over
85 years of successful State-based alcohol
regulation since the creation of an effective
system of independent beer, wine, and spirits
distribution; to the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and
Mr. TURNER):
H. Res. 286. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
the United States remains committed to the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. CUELLAR (for himself, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
VELA, and Ms. JACKSON LEE):
H. Res. 287. A resolution condemning the
President’s threat to shut down the United
States-Mexico border to the detriment of the
United States economy; to the Committee on
the Judiciary, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Foreign Affairs, and Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GAETZ (for himself and Mr.
ROONEY of Florida):
H. Res. 288. A resolution recognizing the
duty of the Federal Government to create a
Green Real Deal; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committees on Natural Resources, Ways and
Means, the Judiciary, Transportation and In-
frastructure, Armed Services, and Oversight
and Reform, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. POCAN:
H. Res. 289. A resolution condemning the
Nation of Brunei’s criminalization of les-
bian, gay, bisexual, and transgender individ-
uals and imposition of cruel and dispropor-
tionate forms of punishment; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to
the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 2043.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. WELCH:
H.R. 2044.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: The Con-
gress shall have Power To . . . make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. WENSTRUP:
H.R. 2045.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. WRIGHT:
H.R. 2046.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. GREEN of Tennessee:
H.R. 2047.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Ms. SPEIER:
H.R. 2048.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. BURGESS:
H.R. 2049.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 9, Clause 7 of the Con-
stitution of the United States: No Money
shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in
Consequence of Appropriations made by law.
and
Article I, Section 8, Clause 4 of the Con-
stitution of the United States: To Establish
an uniform Rule of Naturalization;
By Mr. YARMUTH:
H.R. 2050.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. LIPINSKI:
H.R. 2051.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 The Congress
shall have Power To make all Laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying
into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all
other Powers vested by this Constitution in
the Government of the United States, or in
any Department or Officer thereof.
By Mr. COMER:
H.R. 2052.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Atticle I, Section 8, Clause 7: To establish
Post Offices and Roads.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California:
H.R. 2053.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 2054.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:11 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L03AP7.100 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3069
April 3, 2019
ARTICLE I, SECTION 8.
By Mr. CLYBURN:
H.R. 2055.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mrs. BUSTOS:
H.R. 2056.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 18 of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. MCNERNEY:
H.R. 2057.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. AGUILAR:
H.R. 2058.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution,
Congress has the power ‘‘to make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government ofthe United States,
or any Department or Officer thereof’’.
By Mrs. AXNE:
H.R. 2059.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. BANKS:
H.R. 2060.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion, specifically clause 18 (relating to the
power to make all laws necessary and proper
for carrying out the powers vested in Con-
gress).
By Mr. BERA:
H.R. 2061.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 2062.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. CÁRDENAS:
H.R. 2063.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 1.
All legislative powers herein granted shall
be vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives.
By Ms. JUDY CHU of California:
H.R. 2064.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
United States Constitution
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 2065.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 2066.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Artcile 1 of the Constitution gives Con-
gress the power to provide for the common
defense and general welfare of the United
States.
By Mr. GUEST:
H.R. 2067.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. GUEST:
H.R. 2068.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. HORSFORD:
H.R. 2069.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. LAMB:
H.R. 2070.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
H.R. 2071.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 17 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. PETERSON:
H.R. 2072.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Atiicle 1, Section 8:
The Congress shall have Power to lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defense and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States.
By Ms. PORTER:
H.R. 2073.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. RYAN:
H.R. 2074.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8: ‘‘To make all laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into execution the foregoing powers,
and all other powers vested by this constitu-
tion in the government of the United States,
or in any department or officer thereof.’’
By Mr. SARBANES:
H.R. 2075.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Ms. SCHRIER:
H.R. 2076.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
H.R. 2077.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the US
Constitution
By Mr. WOMACK:
H.R. 2078.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 6: Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 9: Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr. KIND, Mr.
TED LIEU of California, Mr. MCADAMS, Mr.
LOEBSACK, Mr. STANTON, Mr. DOGGETT, Mr.
FOSTER, Mr. MORELLE, Ms. STEVENS, Mr.
LARSON of Connecticut, Ms. TORRES SMALL of
New Mexico, Mr. TRONE, Mr. CUNNINGHAM,
Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. SUOZZI, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Ms. BASS, Ms. JAYAPAL,
Mr. HIMES, Ms. LOFGREN, Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr.
CLEAVER, Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr. NOR-
CROSS, Mr. SIRES, Ms. ADAMS, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. KILDEE, Ms.
SHERRILL, Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms. SÁNCHEZ,
Mr. PAYNE, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. POCAN, Mrs.
CRAIG, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. LAWSON of Flor-
ida, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. KIM, Mr. SHERMAN,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. COSTA, Mr.
SABLAN, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. TAKANO, and Mr.
EVANS.
H.R. 35: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 55: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 99: Mr. SHIMKUS.
H.R. 141: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 149: Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. DAVID
SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
Mr. CLAY, Mr. CLEAVER, Ms. TLAIB, Mr. SAN
NICOLAS, and Mr. HECK.
H.R. 205: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 303: Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 375: Mr. GALLEGO and Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 389: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 420: Ms. LOFGREN, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 462: Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 500: Ms. STEVENS, Mr. GOTTHEIMER,
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia, Mr. YOHO, Mr.
GRAVES of Georgia, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr.
CHABOT, and Mr. FLEISCHMANN.
H.R. 510: Mr. COOK.
H.R. 530: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 553: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Ms.
HAALAND, and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 582: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 585: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 587: Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 594: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 597: Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 600: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 615: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina and
Mr. ZELDIN.
H.R. 643: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 647: Mr. BARR, Mr. ROUDA, and Ms.
PORTER.
H.R. 649: Mr. MEEKS, Mr. TRONE, and Mr.
WELCH.
H.R. 692: Mr. MARCHANT.
H.R. 712: Miss RICE of New York, Mr. HECK,
and Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 728: Mr. KIND and Mr. HARDER of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 788: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 826: Mr. MCCAUL.
H.R. 847: Mr. MITCHELL and Mr. KIM.
H.R. 849: Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 864: Mr. SUOZZI and Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 873: Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 943: Mr. BUDD, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr.
LIPINSKI, and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 946: Ms. SCANLON and Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 978: Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 989: Ms. TITUS, Mr. HECK, and Ms.
MENG.
H.R. 1019: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1034: Mrs. ROBY.
H.R. 1035: Mrs. ROBY.
H.R. 1058: Mrs. HAYES and Mr. MARCHANT.
H.R. 1066: Mr. DUFFY.
H.R. 1096: Mr. BURGESS, Mr. CARTER of
Georgia, and Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 1139: Mr. ZELDIN and Mr. SARBANES.
H.R. 1140: Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, and
Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 1142: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1191: Ms. PINGREE.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.070 H03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3070 April 3, 2019
H.R. 1221: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1223: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1225: Mr. WALDEN, Mr. VAN DREW, Ms.
TITUS, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Ms. FRANKEL, Ms.
SHALALA, Mr. MEEKS, and Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 1226: Mr. LATTA, Mr. FLORES, Mrs.
LESKO, and Mr. CLAY.
H.R. 1227: Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 1241: Ms. SCANLON, Mr. STAUBER, Mr.
LAHOOD, and Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1255: Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 1265: Mr. GOODEN.
H.R. 1269: Mr. WALBERG.
H.R. 1321: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. PANETTA, and
Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 1327: Mr. BUDD, Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas,
Mr. BARR, Mr. MCADAMS, Mr. KENNEDY, Ms.
SEWELL of Alabama, Mr. WITTMAN, and Ms.
CLARK of Massachusetts.
H.R. 1372: Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. LUETKE-
MEYER, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr. ARRINGTON, Mr.
COMER, and Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 1373: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 1380: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 1398: Mr. SMUCKER and Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada.
H.R. 1434: Mr. GRAVES of Georgia.
H.R. 1444: Mr. GRAVES of Georgia, Mr.
ALLEN, and Mr. YOHO.
H.R. 1450: Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 1499: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 1507: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
and Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 1521: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Ms.
PINGREE, and Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 1545: Ms. SLOTKIN and Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 1581: Mr. PANETTA and Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1591: Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Ms. PRESSLEY,
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, and Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 1595: Mr. TRONE and Mr. MASSIE.
H.R. 1605: Mr. LAMBORN.
H.R. 1622: Ms. WILD, Mr. TIPTON, Mr.
STEUBE, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. LOWENTHAL, and
Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 1629: Mr. CLINE.
H.R. 1636: Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER, Ms. FUDGE, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms. MOORE,
Mrs. DEMINGS, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. BROWN of
Maryland, Mr. LEWIS, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. CLAY,
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mrs.
MCBATH, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Ms. SEWELL
of Alabama, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Mr. CLYBURN, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia,
Mr. VEASEY, Mr. EVANS, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. MCEACHIN, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. CLEAVER, Ms. BASS,
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1643: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Mr.
RASKIN.
H.R. 1644: Ms. FRANKEL, Ms. SCHRIER, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mrs.
MCBATH, Ms. SLOTKIN, and Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 1647: Ms. NORTON and Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 1652: Mr. LAMB, Mr. WELCH, and Mr.
CARBAJAL.
H.R. 1674: Mr. WALTZ.
H.R. 1741: Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. GALLAGHER,
Mr. CHABOT, Mr. MCHENRY, Mr. CRENSHAW,
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Mr. SPANO,
and Mr. MEUSER.
H.R. 1753: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 1766: Mr. TAKANO.
H.R. 1802: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. KELLY of
Pennsylvania, Mr. WESTERMAN, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. CRAWFORD, Mr. TURNER, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, and
Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 1830: Ms. TITUS, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK,
Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr. MCCLINTOCK, and
Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 1840: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 1841: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia and Mr.
COHEN.
H.R. 1858: Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. WALKER, Mr.
HOLDING, Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr. WRIGHT, and
Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 1873: Mr. COMER, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. BILI-
RAKIS, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, and Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York.
H.R. 1882: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1896: Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
GALLEGO, and Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 1903: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. BISHOP of Geor-
gia, Mr. WRIGHT, Mrs. DEMINGS, Ms. WILD,
Ms. CASTOR of Florida, and Mr. HIGGINS of
New York.
H.R. 1914: Mr. KELLY of Mississippi.
H.R. 1915: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1934: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 1941: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 1943: Mr. HIGGINS of New York.
H.R. 1945: Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Ms. TLAIB, Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, and
Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 1948: Mr. MAST and Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 1956: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1957: Mr. SCHNEIDER and Mr.
FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1961: Ms. TITUS, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Ms. BONAMICI, and Mrs. MUR-
PHY.
H.R. 1986: Mr. COLLINS of Georgia.
H.R. 2000: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 2002: Mr. HAGEDORN, Mr. WILSON of
South Carolina, and Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 2014: Mr. TIMMONS.
H.R. 2030: Mr. AMODEI, Mr. TIPTON, Mr.
BUCK, Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico, and
Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 2037: Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. SLOTKIN, and
Mr. ENGEL.
H.J. Res. 54: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
PRESSLEY, and Ms. OMAR.
H. Con. Res. 25: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H. Res. 23: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr.
HORSFORD, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. GOMEZ, Ms.
MOORE, Ms. BARRAGÁN, and Mr. NADLER.
H. Res. 33: Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
GOMEZ, Ms. BARRAGÁN, and Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts.
H. Res. 54: Mr. MEEKS, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr.
NADLER, and Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H. Res. 114: Mr. CISNEROS.
H. Res. 141: Mr. PERRY.
H. Res. 189: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H. Res. 191: Mr. BUDD, Mr. MEADOWS, and
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee.
H. Res. 214: Mr. LANGEVIN.
H. Res. 230: Mr. RASKIN and Ms. PINGREE.
H. Res. 246: Mr. SIRES, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr.
TAYLOR, Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. SCHRADER,
Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr. MI-
CHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. FINKENAUER, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. MORELLE, Ms. DEAN, Mr.
TAKANO, and Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H. Res. 250: Mr. CASE, Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Mr. TRONE, Mr. PAPPAS, and Mr.
CLAY.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP7.053 H03APPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S2209
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 2019 No. 58
Senate
The Senate met at 12:30 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
O God, our hope for years to come,
guide our lawmakers on each step of
their pilgrimage. Make them supreme
in compassion, mercy, and love, in fel-
lowship with one another and their
constituents.
Lord, bring them more and more into
oneness with You and obedience to
Your commands. Fill them with the
spirit of Your peace. In their weakness,
give strength. In intenseness, give se-
renity. In discouragement, grant hope.
And in weariness, bring rest. Work
through them to fulfill Your will for
our Nation and world.
We pray in Your mighty Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). The majority leader of the
Senate is recognized.
f
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—H.R. 7
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there is a bill at the desk
due a second reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the bill by title for the
second time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 7) to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to provide more effec-
tive remedies to victims of discrimination in
the payment of wages on the basis of sex, and
for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bill on the Calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I object to further
proceedings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The bill will be placed on the cal-
endar on the next legislative day.
f
NATO
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
first I want to take a moment to thank
NATO Secretary General Jens
Stoltenberg for his remarks at this
morning’s joint session of Congress. I
am proud that the Secretary General
could be here with us in Washington as
the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion celebrates its 70th anniversary
this week.
It is no exaggeration to say that over
these seven decades, with steady Amer-
ican leadership, NATO shaped world
history for the better. The proud his-
tory of alliance and solidarity has paid
huge dividends to NATO’s member
states and to the world.
NATO, with American leadership,
kept the peace and created the condi-
tions for an unprecedented period of
prosperity for the United States, as
well as its allies. It has deterred major
Soviet and Russian aggression and pre-
vented a third world war.
When communism’s Iron Curtain fell
over much of the world, we stood to-
gether for democracy. When the post-
Cold War transformation could have
roiled Eastern and Central Europe, we
stood together for stability. When bru-
tal killers trampled human rights in
the Balkans, we stood together for in-
nocent lives. And when terrorist fanat-
ics killed thousands of Americans on
September 11, we stood together for
freedom. NATO allies remain with our
troops in Afghanistan to this very day.
It is essential that we keep the alli-
ance healthy and strong. The threats
we face are numerous, and not least
among them, in a kind of throwback to
the alliance’s founding, is an assertive
Russia that has barely even pretended
to honor international commitments,
brazenly violated arms control agree-
ments, invaded and occupied Ukraine
and Georgia, and conducted cyber oper-
ations and so-called active measures
against NATO allies. As President
Trump has made it clear, keeping
NATO strong means that all allies
must commit to NATO’s collective se-
curity.
For our own part, after years of
President Obama’s defense cuts, the
United States has turned the corner on
defense spending, investing more in
readiness and modernization. We need
to sustain that progress, but, of course,
NATO allies must live up to their
promises to invest in their own de-
fense. This isn’t about meeting an arbi-
trary budget number but about build-
ing real capabilities that are needed to
meet real requirements identified by
the alliance’s military commanders. As
the Secretary General has pointed out,
our allies are starting to follow our
lead. They are on track to contribute
an additional $100 billion in defense
spending.
There are also other ways NATO
must adapt to meet the threats of the
21st century. It is essential that the al-
liance follow through on the reforms
championed by former Secretary
Mattis. NATO must modernize its ca-
pabilities to address interoperability
challenges, enhance military mobility
across the continent, and improve the
speed at which it makes decisions.
For today, I just want to thank the
Secretary General for his address this
morning. Every American should be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:31 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP6.000 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2210 April 3, 2019
proud of what his presence in this Cap-
itol Building represents about our Na-
tion’s vital role in NATO and NATO’s
vital role in the world.
f
NOMINATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, now
on an entirely different matter, the
comprehensive campaign by Senate
Democrats to delay Senate consider-
ation of Presidential nominations is
now more than 2 years old. As I have
explained in recent days, it is time for
this sorry chapter to end. It is time to
return this body to a more normal and
reasonable process for fulfilling its
constitutional responsibilities, no mat-
ter which party controls the White
House.
The Senate had to hold 128 cloture
votes on nominations during President
Trump’s first 2 years. That is 128, more
than 5 times as many as the equivalent
period for the previous 6 Presidents
combined.
Now, 42 of those 128 were for posi-
tions that had never, in the past, re-
quired cloture votes, like the Assistant
Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices, the General Counsel at the De-
partment of Agriculture, or the Ambas-
sador to Luxembourg. It is not a
thoughtful investigation of a few high-
ly controversial nominees and not a
principled opposition in some rare cir-
cumstances. These are part and parcel
of Senate tradition.
But grinding, across-the-board sys-
tematic obstruction, under threat of
filibuster, sparing not even individuals
whom literally zero Senators opposed
in the end—this is new. This is new,
and it needs to stop.
Well-qualified civil servants, aca-
demic and business experts, and exem-
plary jurists with broad bipartisan sup-
port are all subjected to weeks, if not
months and months, of pointless
delays, and then pointless cloture votes
tying up floor time, not because a real
debate was happening, not because
there is real due diligence requiring
months of delay but just because our
colleagues across the aisle have chosen
to endlessly relitigate the 2016 election
rather than actually participate in
governing, just because they wish our
President were not our President.
The Department of the Interior has
waited 631 days since President Trump
first nominated an Assistant Secretary
for Policy, Management and Budget.
That is 631 days. Her nomination was
voice-voted out of committee. After
months of inaction, it had to be sent
back at the end of Congress last year.
The Millennium Challenge Corpora-
tion has waited 450 days since its CEO
was nominated, and it has been more
than a year since the President nomi-
nated a chair for the Advisory Council
on Historic Preservation. None of these
are front-page news, just normal posi-
tions the President has been trying to
fill. In each case and in hundreds of
others, Democrats have made sure
those chairs stayed emptied for far too
long.
This systematic obstruction is unfair
to our duly elected President, and,
more importantly, it is disrespectful—
disrespectful to the American people
who deserve the government they
elected. The American people deserve
the government they elected.
This problem goes deeper than today.
We are talking about the future of this
very institution and the future func-
tioning of our constitutional govern-
ment. This practice is laying the foun-
dation for a dangerous new norm. We
cannot set this new precedent that the
Senate minorities will systematically
keep an administration understaffed,
down to the least controversial nomi-
nees, anytime they wish somebody else
had won the election.
We need to act. We need to act. We
need to act so that in its third year,
the current administration can finally
get more of its team in place. We need
to act to repair the institutional leg-
acy we are leaving and restore a func-
tional nominations process for future
administrations of both parties.
For most of the storied history of
this institution, the traditions that
govern the Senate have combined two
distinct things—on legislation, an iron-
clad commitment to robust minority
rights, including extensive debate and
the filibuster, and on nominations, a
reasonable process for considering the
individuals the President sends us.
So let me be absolutely clear. The
legislative filibuster is central to the
nature of the Senate. It always has
been and must always be the distinc-
tive quality of this institution. In the
U.S. Senate, dissenting voices retain
considerable power to shape the debate
on legislation. Pivotal moments have
hinged on the strong convictions of a
minority that has urged caution or in-
sisted on an amendment.
I know many of our colleagues on
both sides share my view that this part
of the Senate’s DNA must never be put
in jeopardy or sacrificed to serve either
side’s momentary partisan whims. In
fact, during the last Congress, 61 of our
colleagues from both sides of the aisle
signed an open letter making their
commitment to the legislative fili-
buster abundantly clear.
I know many of us were disturbed to
read this week in the Washington Post
that far-left activists are pushing ‘‘an
abolish-the-filibuster litmus test on
the presidential campaign trail, and
quite a few of the 2020 aspirants have
at least signaled a willingness to con-
sider it.’’ I am glad that many of my
Democratic colleagues are on the
record opposing such a shortsighted
disaster championed by the far left.
The commitment of both sides to pre-
serving the legislative filibuster is not
just a historical matter. It is also very
practical. Neither party is particularly
keen to see the other side enact its en-
tire, full-bore legislative wish list the
next time they obtain 51 votes.
Republicans don’t want Democrats to
enact an entire leftwing agenda with 51
votes, and Democrats certainly don’t
want Republicans to enact every last
part of our conservative agenda with a
mere 51 votes. What they are not
thinking about is when the shoe is on
the other foot. When the shoe is on the
other foot, and Republicans have a sim-
ple majority of 51, and there is no legis-
lative filibuster, what would happen?
They are only thinking about how it
might enable them, but not thinking
ahead to the next time the shoe is on
the other foot. In fact, I remember that
in 2013 I said, when our colleagues on
the other side insisted on going to a
simple 51 votes on the executive cal-
endar: You might not like what hap-
pens when the shoe is on the other fel-
low’s foot.
I would keep in mind—I would say to
my friends on the far left: Think about
what might happen the next time the
people who are not for it have 51 votes.
We all know that both parties will pos-
sess future 51-vote majorities some-
where down the line. It will happen.
The Senate’s long traditions on legis-
lation therefore need to remain in
place. But what we are discussing this
week is restoring the different tradi-
tions concerning nominations. The tra-
dition here is entirely different. There
is no long tradition—none—of what
amount to mass filibusters of personnel
for administrations. There is no tradi-
tion of systematic, grinding delays
under threats of filibuster that extend
even to nominees whom nobody op-
poses. All of this is new. Until my
Democratic colleagues started us down
this road in 2003—this began in the first
administration of George W. Bush—
routine systematic filibusters of nomi-
nations were a foreign thing. It just
wasn’t done.
So we need to recover Senate tradi-
tion. The effort we will make later
today is about getting us back to what
the tradition in the Senate was for a
couple of hundred years, down to the
Bush 43 first term.
Yesterday, we had a chance to do just
that, working across the aisle and
through the same process that we over-
whelmingly agreed to with President
Obama. But—stop me if you have heard
this one before—Senate Democrats
chose obstruction instead.
Never mind that in 2013, a bipartisan
majority, including many Republicans,
passed a similar measure that imme-
diately benefited the Obama adminis-
tration. In other words, to help Presi-
dent Obama, a significant number of
Republicans joined with all of the
Democrats in 2013 to do something al-
most exactly like what we will be pro-
posing later today. He had just gotten
reelected. Do you think we were happy
about that? We weren’t. But we
thought the Executive Calendar should
be expedited for these kinds of nomina-
tions that we are discussing today.
Never mind that the same Democrats
who opposed this measure yesterday
have whispered in the ear to many of
us, including the occupant of the Chair,
that they would be more than happy to
support this, provided it didn’t take ef-
fect until 2021. They are more than
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:09 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.001 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2211
April 3, 2019
happy to support it, provided it doesn’t
take effect until 2021. Well, that cer-
tainly concedes the reasonableness of
what we are going to achieve later
today.
Because bringing the Senate nomina-
tion process permanently back to
Earth right now would help the Repub-
lican administration, they weren’t in-
terested in doing the right thing—what
they did in 2013, what they are whis-
pering in our ears now: Oh, no, we can-
not do it now because we don’t like
who is in the White House.
Republicans remain committed to re-
form. Look at the nomination cur-
rently before us—a textbook case study
on the shameful state of the current
process. Jeffrey Kessler of Virginia was
first nominated as Assistant Secretary
of Commerce in November of 2017. It
took 7 months before Democrats on the
Finance Committee allowed his nomi-
nation to be considered. When it was,
he was reported out on a unanimous
vote. Nobody opposed him in the Fi-
nance Committee.
The familiar story continues—an-
other 6 months of inaction. The nomi-
nation was sent back to the White
House at the end of the last Congress.
So the process started all over again.
This time he got a voice vote out of the
Finance Committee. Everybody just
said aye. Yet here on the floor,
inexplicably, it still required a cloture
motion to break through the obstruc-
tion and give this nominee, whom no
one voted against, a vote.
Later today, it appears that at long
last we will be able to take action to fi-
nally advance Mr. Kessler’s nomina-
tion, to do the responsible thing, to
begin to unwind this partisan paralysis
for the good of the Senate and for the
future of the constitutional order each
of us has pledged to protect.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Jeffrey Kessler,
of Virginia, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the time until 2
p.m. will be equally divided between
the two leaders or their designees.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
S. RES. 50
Mr. THUNE. Yesterday afternoon,
Senate Democrats voted against a
rules change that would have reduced
needless delay in the Senate and ensure
that future Presidents of both parties
could staff their administrations in a
timely fashion.
Democrats chose partisanship over
principle and political advantage over
the well-being of the Senate. How do I
know that this was a partisan decision
on Democrats’ part and not a prin-
cipled one? Because 34 currently serv-
ing Members of the Democratic caucus
supported a very similar rules change
measure when President Obama was in
office. Yet not one Member—not one
Member of the Democratic caucus—
voted in favor of the rules change yes-
terday.
Worse, privately, many Democrats
had indicated a willingness to support
the rules change but only if the effec-
tive date were pushed to 2021, when
Democrats hope they will have a Dem-
ocrat in the White House. Apparently,
it is reasonable for Democratic admin-
istrations to be staffed up in a timely
fashion, but Republican administra-
tions should have to suffer endless par-
tisan delays. That is a pretty offensive
position.
It is disrespectful to the American
people, who deserve a fully staffed ad-
ministration, even when their choice of
President isn’t the Democrats’ choice.
It is disrespectful of our system of gov-
ernment.
Democrats apparently think the sys-
tem should be rigged in favor of their
party, no matter what election results
say. Don’t like the fact that a Repub-
lican President got to choose Supreme
Court Justices? Pack the courts. Don’t
like the fact that your candidate didn’t
win the election? Change our electoral
system.
In a democracy, you win some elec-
tions and you lose some elections.
Sometimes you like the individual in
the White House, and sometimes you
don’t. Sometimes you succeed in pass-
ing your legislation, and sometimes
you just don’t have the votes. That is
the nature of life in a democracy.
No one likes being in the minority. It
is not fun to lose votes or elections,
but that is the price of freedom. That
is the price of democracy.
The other option is for one party to
try to rig the system in its favor so
that everything goes its way no matter
what election results say. There is a
name for that. It is called tyranny.
Back in 2013, a majority of Repub-
licans, including the Republican leader
and me, supported a rules change to
streamline the process of approving
lower level administration nominees,
such as district court judges and assist-
ant secretaries. We voted for this rules
change even though we knew it would
benefit only President Obama since it
would expire at the end of the 113th
Congress, but we signed on because we
supported the principle behind the
change. We believed that Presidents
should be able to staff their adminis-
trations in a timely fashion, yes, even
if they weren’t Presidents from our
party. We believed that whether the
President was a Republican or Demo-
crat, the American people deserved a
fully functioning executive branch. So
we worked with Democrats to stream-
line consideration of lower level ad-
ministration nominees.
I am deeply disappointed that Demo-
crats chose to betray their principles
yesterday for short-term partisan gain,
and I hope the Democrats here in the
Senate will think better of their vote
and work with Republicans to speed up
consideration of lower level nominees
before Democrats’ historic level of ob-
struction becomes a permanent stand-
ard here in the U.S. Senate.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I am
going to use my time on the Senate
floor to address two related subjects.
The Republican leader is reportedly
on the verge of going nuclear to speed
through the confirmation of more far-
right nominees. He says Democrats are
guilty of extreme, unprecedented ob-
struction, and he claims that his hand
has been forced and that is why he is
required to change the Senate rules. In
the real world, I want to make clear
that I believe the facts tell a different
story, and I am going to lay out briefly
why I think this is the wrong way to
go.
When you look at the numbers, you
see that the Republican leader’s argu-
ment is a fantasy. Let’s look at judges,
and let’s compare the Trump adminis-
tration to the Obama administration.
The Obama administration started
with 53 judicial vacancies; the Trump
administration started with 112. That
increase didn’t occur because a whole
lot of judges somehow magically quali-
fied for Social Security and quit some-
time in 2016; it was because Repub-
licans blocked nominees for years at a
time, and they kept those seats open.
Senate Republicans even blocked their
own judicial selections during the pre-
vious administration. Put your arms
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:31 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.003 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2212 April 3, 2019
around that. Senate Republicans even
blocked their own. Only 22 judicial
nominees were confirmed in the final 2
years of the Obama administration—
the fewest in a Congress since Harry
Truman was President.
In 2015 and 2016, the Judiciary Com-
mittee considered only five circuit
court nominees. It considered that
many in December of 2017 alone. There
were nearly twice as many circuit
judges confirmed in the first 2 years of
the Trump administration as there
were in President Obama’s entire first
term. Nominees are moving nearly
twice as quickly under this President.
Republicans even blew up a century-
old bipartisan practice of seeking input
from Senators on judicial nominees
from their home States. It is based on
what has come to be known as the blue
slip to consent to a hearing and a
markup of a nomination. It is a tradi-
tion, by the way, Republicans fought to
protect when a Democrat was Presi-
dent and they were in the minority.
Under this President, they threw the
blue-slip tradition out the window.
Republicans are also moving nomi-
nees in huge batches and at paces that
prevent serious debate on their quali-
fications. A few months ago, the Judi-
ciary Committee held a markup and
voted out 46 nominees, including 44 ju-
dicial nominees. That had never been
done before. It is a head-scratcher how
that can meet any reasonable defini-
tion of ‘‘advice and consent.’’
The way my colleagues on the other
side talk about the issue, you would
think Democrats delayed every nomi-
nation for as long as possible. That just
doesn’t remotely resemble the truth.
Setting judges aside, what about the
executive branch? The President and
his advisers will tell you right out in
the open that they don’t want to nomi-
nate anybody. They have chosen to
leave those positions vacant. That cer-
tainly doesn’t meet a textbook defini-
tion of ‘‘Democratic obstructionism.’’ I
am the ranking Democrat on the Sen-
ate Finance Committee. Our com-
mittee has zero nominees ready for a
committee vote. It is not because any-
body is blocking them; it is because the
Trump administration seems uninter-
ested in putting nominees forward. Our
committee, on a bipartisan basis, has
done its job.
So, colleagues, you can’t look at the
record of nominees over the last 2
years, particularly on judges, and con-
clude that the Democrats have broken
the Senate. It is just not true. I believe
a number of my colleagues on the other
side know it. When they want to go nu-
clear and change the rules, we get a pa-
rade of horror stories about how Demo-
crats are obstructionists. It is a totally
different story when they prefer to
tout their record on nominations.
Let’s hear from Republicans, from
the President on down.
Here is the President tweeting in late
2017: ‘‘Judges at a record clip. Our
courts are rapidly changing.’’
The President at a rally last year:
‘‘We have the best judges. We put on a
tremendous amount of great Federal
district court judges. We’ll be setting
records. We are setting records. Ap-
peals court judges. A Supreme Court
judge—fantastic.’’
The Vice President, March 2018: ‘‘The
President . . . set a record for the most
court of appeal judges confirmed in the
first year of an administration in
American history.’’
Leader MCCONNELL said it all, speak-
ing about the confirmed judges. He said
‘‘including a record number of circuit
court judges for a President’s first
year.’’
More recently, Leader MCCONNELL
said: ‘‘We confirmed every circuit
judge. We’ve now done 29 circuit
judges. That’s a record for this quick in
any administration in history.’’
After November’s elections, when
Democrats won control of the House,
Leader MCCONNELL said: ‘‘I think we’ll
have probably more time for nomina-
tions in the next Congress than we’ve
had in this one, because the areas of
legislative agreement will be more lim-
ited between a Democratic House and a
Republican Senate. . . . I don’t think
we’ll have any trouble finding time to
do nominations.’’ That is Leader
MCCONNELL. ‘‘I don’t think we’ll have
any trouble finding time to do nomina-
tions.’’
Leader MCCONNELL said: ‘‘We intend
to keep confirming as many as we pos-
sibly can for as long as we’re in a posi-
tion to do so.’’
My colleagues on the other side can’t
have it both ways, constantly talking
about Democratic obstructionism and
then, in effect, making all these state-
ments about how they are setting
records for getting people through. You
can’t have it both ways.
I am going to close on this. I am not
going to apologize for opposing nomi-
nees who are unqualified, corrupt, or
simply outside of the mainstream.
I opposed the nomination of Ryan
Bounds to the Ninth Circuit because he
concealed hateful writings to a bipar-
tisan committee—since I became the
State’s senior Democrat, and now as
the senior Senator, I have continued
this committee. We have had a bipar-
tisan selection committee that vets
candidates. We had it when my former
colleague, Senator Smith, who I know
is a friend of the Presiding Officer’s,
was here. We always worked in a bipar-
tisan way to address these issues. This
was a nominee who concealed hateful
writings from the bipartisan selection
committee that vetted his candidacy,
and he was forced to withdraw.
I opposed Neomi Rao because she also
had put extreme views in writing, and
those views closely mirrored the work
she had done as a Trump appointee at-
tacking protections for women’s
health, for sexual assault victims on
campus, and for vulnerable commu-
nities across the country.
I opposed the nomination of Thomas
Farr because he ruthlessly attacked
the voting rights of people of color.
I opposed the nomination of Tom
Price to lead the Department of Health
and Human Services because I thought
he was just about as corrupt as they
came and seemed to be laser-focused on
taking away people’s healthcare.
I opposed the nomination of Steven
Mnuchin to be Treasury Secretary be-
cause I believed a history of profiting
off of the suffering of millions of Amer-
icans ought to be disqualifying for that
job.
Now, what has been the record? Mul-
tiple members of the Trump Cabinet
have resigned under an ethical cloud.
The rule change for which the Repub-
lican leader is pushing will cause the
rushing through of even more unquali-
fied and corrupt nominees at the sub-
Cabinet level.
The bottom line is that all of the
doomsday talk about the Democratic
obstruction that is forcing the Repub-
lican leader’s hand is simply out of
touch with the facts. The Trump ad-
ministration will find more support
among the Democrats when it picks
better nominees. It is a quaint idea—
pick better nominees, and then you
will get support. Instead, the nuclear
option Leader MCCONNELL is set to
trigger this week is a strategy that
will take us in the opposite direction.
It is going to make it easier to rush un-
qualified and extreme nominees
through the Senate before anybody no-
tices.
I oppose this change. I urge more of
my colleagues on the other side to do
the same.
NOMINATION OF DAVID BERNHARDT
Mr. President, I conclude my re-
marks by turning briefly to a related
subject that deals with, I believe, com-
promised, corrupt Trump nominees.
The Energy and Natural Resources
Committee is scheduled to vote tomor-
row on the nomination of David Bern-
hardt to be the Interior Secretary, but
there is developing news—news re-
vealed just last night—that ought to be
enough to put this flawed nomination
on hold.
According to the Washington Post,
‘‘[t]he Interior Department’s Office of
Inspector General is reviewing allega-
tions that acting secretary David Bern-
hardt may have violated his ethics
pledge by weighing in on issues affect-
ing a former client, the office con-
firmed Tuesday.’’
I made it clear in Mr. Bernhardt’s
hearing last week that I believed he
had ethics problems owed to the ap-
pearance that he had been working on
behalf of former clients while he had
served as a public official. I am also
very concerned about the real possi-
bility that Mr. Bernhardt made false
statements under oath in his nomina-
tion hearing last week. I asked the In-
terior Department’s inspector general
to look into these matters, but she has
not had time to respond to my request.
The fact is that the inspector general
is just at the very outset of this proc-
ess.
Here is the prospect this body faces.
The Senate could be on its way to in-
stalling an Interior Secretary who
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:31 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.005 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2213
April 3, 2019
could almost immediately face an in-
vestigation for corruption and lying
under oath. These are serious allega-
tions that face Mr. Bernhardt, so I feel
strongly that the vote in the Energy
and Natural Resources Committee
needs to be delayed until they can be
investigated fully.
With all of the Trump nominees who
have resigned in scandal—by the way,
one being the predecessor of whoever
will be the head of the Interior Depart-
ment, Ryan Zinke, who, when he came
for his confirmation hearing, promised
nine times he would be like Teddy Roo-
sevelt and left under an enormous set
of ethical clouds—it is clear this Re-
publican-controlled Senate has decided
that it is going to confirm first, ask
questions later, and maybe duck all of
the hard questions altogether.
I believe that needs to change right
now. It is time to restore public trust
in this process. I do not believe the
Senate should allow the Interior De-
partment to turn into a revolving door
of corruption and scandal. The vote on
the Bernhardt nomination, in my view,
should not proceed tomorrow in the
Senate Energy and Natural Resources
Committee.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Texas.
S. RES. 50
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, over the
last 2 years, since the beginning of the
Trump administration, our Senate
Democratic colleagues have brought
our work to a crawl over judicial and
executive branch nominees. It is as if
they have frustration and surprise over
the election of President Trump in the
first place and still haven’t gotten over
it. This is another way in which they
have sought to undermine the adminis-
tration—to deny the President the
staff necessary to populate the various
executive branch Agencies as well as
the judiciary.
The way you do that in the Senate is
by stringing out the amount of time it
takes to confirm nominees who ordi-
narily would have been confirmed by
consent or by voice vote—certainly,
not by taking 3 days or so at a time to
generate a confirmation. It is not be-
cause these nominees are unqualified
or even controversial; it is simply be-
cause this is how the resistance oper-
ates at a time when President Trump is
President of the United States. These
nominees are being used as a weapon to
slow the work of the Senate and, real-
ly, to deny us the floor time in which
to do other things that we might be
doing that would be beneficial to the
American people, and they have been
running this play repeatedly over the
last 2 years.
In February of 2018, President Trump
nominated John Ryder to serve on the
board of the Tennessee Valley Author-
ity. The work of the TVA is undeniably
important, but this isn’t the sort of
high-profile job that typically leads to
a contentious nomination. In fact,
these board positions are normally con-
firmed by voice vote.
Mr. Ryder was, by any account, well
qualified for the job. He received unan-
imous support from the committee of
jurisdiction, the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works. Under nor-
mal circumstances, he would have been
quickly confirmed by the entire Sen-
ate. Our Democratic friends, instead,
decided to delay and delay and delay
some more and forced the Senate to
hold a cloture vote on the nominee,
which caused him to sit in limbo for 400
days.
I wonder how many Americans who
want to serve their country in some po-
sitions that require Senate confirma-
tion can afford to put their lives on
hold and wait for 400 days or more just
for the Senate to get around to doing
something that should be somewhat of
a routine job.
With Mr. Ryder, in the end, the irony
would almost be funny if it were not so
pathetic. Ultimately, he was confirmed
by voice vote. For 400 days, we waited
to achieve the result we all knew we
were to have all along if Mr. Ryder
were to hang in there long enough. For
400 days, the TVA waited for the va-
cancy to be filled without there being
an end in sight, and for 400 days, Mr.
Ryder and his family waited and wait-
ed and waited with uncertainty. Sadly,
he is not alone. He is part of a long list
of nominees who have received similar
mistreatment.
There is one Texan, a friend of mine,
who had to wait even longer. Susan
Combs is a fourth-generation rancher
from Big Bend who has led an impres-
sive career in both the public and pri-
vate sectors and has gained the respect
of virtually every person who has
crossed her path.
She served as a member of the Texas
House of Representatives, then as the
first female agriculture commissioner
of Texas, and later served as the Texas
comptroller of public accounts.
When she was nominated to be the
Department of the Interior’s Assistant
Secretary for Policy, Management and
Budget, I was thrilled, and I was happy
to introduce her before her committee
hearing. Less than a month after she
was nominated, Susan was unani-
mously approved by the Senate Energy
and Natural Resources Committee.
Again, I was hopeful that her nomina-
tion would sail through since it, clear-
ly, was not a controversial nomination.
Unfortunately, that was not the case.
Here we are, 631 days later, and
Susan Combs has still not been con-
firmed. Again, it is not because she is
not qualified for the job or that she is
a controversial nominee. Just the op-
posite is true. This is simply the way
our Democratic colleagues have sought
to deal with nominees from this Presi-
dent.
If Senate Democrats were delaying
well-qualified nominees like Susan to
make sure they had adequate oppor-
tunity to debate their nominations, we
wouldn’t have any disagreement with
that, but we know, by their actions,
that they will stop at nothing to bring
the work of this body to a screeching
halt, particularly during the time of
the Trump administration.
Over the last 2 years, our colleagues
on the other side of the aisle have
forced votes on nominees who in pre-
vious years would have sailed through
the Senate. During President Trump’s
first 2 years, we held more than five
times the number of cloture votes on
nominees as we did during the same
time for the last six Presidents com-
bined. So to call this unprecedented is
not an exaggeration, and the long list
of vacancies is growing.
Our government is suffering, and the
services that we provide to the Amer-
ican people are being obstructed as
well. The Senate’s duty of advice and
consent is important, but it is not our
only job. We have a lot of other things
we are supposed to do here, and they
are falling by the wayside while we try
to work through these, largely, non-
controversial judicial and executive
branch nominees.
Unfortunately, our Democratic col-
leagues’ delay tactics have brought us
to the point at which we really don’t
have many other options. We have
tried negotiations. We have been told
they will be happy to limit postcloture
debate time but that, oh, by the way,
they will not agree to that unless it
starts in the year 2021. This is hardly a
principled position. This is simply
about resisting President Trump, his
administration, and this administra-
tion’s ability to do the job the Presi-
dent was elected to do.
What we have proposed is something
that will not make nominations easier
to be confirmed. The process will be
largely the same, and the vote thresh-
old will remain the same. It will sim-
ply keep us from wasting valuable time
that we should be spending on debating
and voting on other important policies,
not widely supported nominees.
This certainly isn’t as radical a
change as many of our Democratic col-
leagues are presenting it to be. In Jan-
uary of 2013, current Majority Leader
SCHUMER and then Majority Leader
Harry Reid led the charge to make
similar changes in order to process
President Obama’s nominees.
At that time, Republicans were in
the minority. What did we do then?
Well, we weren’t exactly fans of Presi-
dent Obama’s, but he had just been
elected to his second term, and suffice
it to say that while we were hoping for
a different outcome, we weren’t about
to obstruct his ability to populate and
staff the various Departments in the
Federal Government. We didn’t ob-
struct nominees. We didn’t sulk. We
didn’t try to prevent the President
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:31 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.006 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2214 April 3, 2019
from filling these nominations
throughout the entire government.
This is our government. In fact, we
took the opposite approach. Along with
several of my Republican colleagues, I
joined Democrats in voting for a reso-
lution that would speed up the consid-
eration process for lower level nomi-
nees.
I have to give Senator ALEXANDER,
the Senator from Tennessee, a lot of
credit for negotiating that in the first
place. But it has now expired, and we
are back to the status quo before that
temporary change went into effect.
Like the changes we are talking about
today, it didn’t change the threshold
for nominees; it just made the process
a little more efficient. It received votes
from 78 Senators on a bipartisan basis.
So that is why it is a real head-scratch-
er that we find ourselves where we are
today. Unfortunately, I think we know
what the answer is. This is part of the
anti-Trump resistance. Unfortunately,
it is not playing out just in social
media or on TV; it is playing out right
here in the Senate—what used to be
known as the world’s greatest delibera-
tive body.
When our colleagues Senator BLUNT,
chairman of the Rules Committee, and
Senator LANKFORD of Oklahoma intro-
duced this resolution, I was surprised
that our colleagues across the aisle
wouldn’t do what we did back in 2013.
Back then, all but one Member of the
Democratic caucus voted for the reso-
lution—again, something very similar
to what we are proposing today—but
yesterday, they refused to even proceed
to debate a similar change. They could
have offered amendments. They could
have made changes to the resolution
where they thought it fell short. But
no—their commitment to obstruction
remains. It is clear they don’t really
oppose the resolution; they oppose sup-
porting a resolution under the Presi-
dent of another party. Indeed, they op-
pose supporting this resolution under
President Trump.
When 78 Republicans voted for a
similar change in 2013—as I said, we
didn’t vote for President Obama, but
we understood the importance of pro-
tecting the Senate as an institution
and allowing our valuable work to con-
tinue on behalf of the American people.
I wish our colleagues across the aisle
had that same commitment today.
Just as I supported this modest
change in 2013, I will support it again
today. This will allow us to make
meaningful progress in confirming the
long list of pending nominees without
impeding our ability to do our other
work, like legislation.
In particular, there are four district
court nominees from Texas I am eager
to get off the Senate calendar and on
the Federal bench.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The Senator from Colo-
rado.
Mr. BENNET. Madam President,
later today, the majority leader will
use the so-called nuclear option to once
again break the Senate rules. This is
going to be the latest episode in a se-
ries of decisions that have been made
around here—mostly by the majority
leader but not only by the majority
leader—to degrade the Senate’s respon-
sibility to advise and consent.
What has happened here is a trav-
esty. We have destroyed—this genera-
tion of American politicians has de-
cided that somehow we have preroga-
tives that the people who came before
us didn’t exercise.
I think part of the problem we have
is that people are so sick and tired of
the dysfunction around this place, they
are not even paying attention to what
is happening here even though, in the-
ory, it is happening in their name.
Two days ago—on the first of April,
fittingly—the majority leader wrote an
op-ed laying out his case. He wrote:
Since January 2017, for the first time in
memory, a minority has exploited procedure
to systematically obstruct a President from
staffing up his administration.
Let’s read that again.
Since January 2017, for the first time in
memory, a minority has exploited procedure
to systematically obstruct a President from
staffing up his administration.
Senator MCCONNELL went on to
write:
Crucial jobs are still being held empty out
of political spite.
He seems to have completely forgot-
ten the Obama administration when he
was the leader of the minority, when
he was systematically denying Presi-
dent Obama the right not only to put
people in his Cabinet and in his admin-
istration but to put judges on the
bench as well.
Before President Obama arrived in
Washington, the filibuster had been
used 68 times on this floor—68 times
since that rule was created sometime
right before 1920. In the first 5 years of
the Obama administration, the Repub-
licans filibustered his nominees or used
the filibuster in some other way 79
times. It had been used 68 times from
when the rule was created to when
President Obama became President,
and then over the first 5 years of his
administration, they used it 79 times.
And they can’t remember a time when
a minority systematically denied a
President the ability to put judges on
the court or to staff their administra-
tion.
When President Obama was Presi-
dent, they filibustered the Secretary of
Defense nominee for the first time in
the history of America, and he was a
former Senator and a Republican. His
name was Chuck Hagel. They filibus-
tered him. Secretary of Defense seems
like a pretty crucial appointment.
In President Obama’s last 2 years,
the Republican Senate confirmed only
22 judges. That is a smaller number
than at any time since the Truman ad-
ministration. Twenty-two judges was
all he got.
President Obama left 100 vacancies to
President Trump to fill—a record num-
ber. There were more vacancies at the
end of his term than there were at the
beginning.
It has been a concerted strategy of
Senator MCCONNELL’s for a decade—for
more than that—and he has succeeded.
He led the most famous blockade
that has ever happened in the Senate,
and that was the blockade he led of
Merrick Garland.
When Justice Scalia died 342 days be-
fore the end of President Obama’s
term, Senator MCCONNELL responded to
that by saying: ‘‘This vacancy should
not be filled until we have a new Presi-
dent.’’ He called President Obama a
lameduck President. There were 342
days left in his term. He had an entire
year left in his term.
Until that point, the Senate had
never refused to consider an elected
President’s nominee because the va-
cancy arose in an election year, which
they claimed over and over again
wasn’t the case. Since the Nation’s
founding, the Senate has confirmed 17
Supreme Court nominees in election
years; it has rejected 2.
The majority leader would later say:
One of my proudest moments was when I
looked Barack Obama in the eye and said,
‘‘Mr. President, you will not fill this Su-
preme Court vacancy.’’
He did it because he knew he could
get away with it, and he thought he
would roll the dice. It was shameful.
And it wasn’t true that it was con-
sistent with our history; it was com-
pletely inconsistent with our history.
Whether you support Donald Trump
or you don’t support Donald Trump, I
think you can thank the majority lead-
er for electing Donald Trump because
by keeping that vacancy on the Court,
he made that the issue in the election,
and he galvanized the Republicans
around a candidate who otherwise
wouldn’t have been very appealing to
many of them. People say that he stole
a Supreme Court seat. It is bigger than
that—he won the Presidency for Don-
ald Trump. And we know what has hap-
pened since that time.
But it amazes me that in the name of
things not moving quickly enough, he
can come out here and claim that the
most significant thing he has ever done
is what he did to Merrick Garland and
then the record he has set putting
judges on the circuit courts and the
district courts since Donald Trump was
elected President. Nobody has ever had
this many judges put on the court as
fast as the majority leader has put
them on the court. Now, for district
court judges, he wants to do it in 2
hours of time. He is just going to crank
the machine until it is not available to
him anymore, and it has been clear
that has been his objective from the be-
ginning.
But it is not just that the judges are
conservative judges; it is that they are
not as good as they used to be.
You know, until the group of people
in this room—including me, by the
way—in 2013, out of desperation, I came
to this floor and voted to change the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:09 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.008 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2215
April 3, 2019
rules so that President Obama could
actually get some nominees confirmed,
some judges confirmed, and some ad-
ministrative appointments confirmed.
I have said on this floor before that
that is the worst vote I have taken as
a Senator, and I apologize for that
vote. I share some of the responsibility
for where we find ourselves today.
The majority leader said at that
time: ‘‘You’re going to come to regret
this decision.’’ And I will say this
about him: He was right. I do. Not for
me and not for the Senate but for the
American people who are having their
judiciary infected by the mindless par-
tisanship of this place, which is hope-
fully temporary partisanship. But
those are lifetime appointments that
we are confirming that we can’t take 30
hours to confirm anymore, and now we
are going to do them in 2 hours just to
make sure we populate the court with
conservative judges whose views are
consistent with the majority leader’s
and the President of the United States.
But, as I said, it is not just about
their point of view, their judiciary phi-
losophy, it is also their quality, be-
cause if you have to earn 60 votes for a
lifetime appointment or—when I was in
law school and you were a qualified
judge who was nominated by a Presi-
dent for the Supreme Court, you would
then command 90 votes or 95 votes, and
that gave the American people con-
fidence that the judiciary was insu-
lated from politics, that it was insu-
lated from partisanship. Now, because
of what the majority leader has done to
the Supreme Court, we are going to put
people on that Court with lifetime ap-
pointments by the barest partisan ma-
jorities. It is impossible for me to see
how that is going to build confidence in
the judiciary.
So when he says he has just put it
back to the way it was before anybody
around here started to filibuster cir-
cuit court judges, that is not true be-
cause before that, you would get 90
votes for somebody who was qualified
for the Supreme Court, and today, you
get whatever you get from the partisan
majority that happens to be in power.
By the way, I have absolutely no idea
what is going to happen when we have
a President of one party and a majority
of another party and there is a vacancy
on the Supreme Court, or two or three.
If we don’t change our behavior around
here, those vacancies are just going to
remain until we have a President and a
Senate of the same party, however long
that takes. But if you only need to get
51 votes, I guess you don’t have to be
that qualified.
The Senate confirmed a nominee re-
cently to the Sixth Circuit who wrote
blog posts peddling conspiracy theories
about Barack Obama and compared
abortion to slavery. He was confirmed
51 to 47. He would never have survived
the vet before.
The Senate confirmed a nominee to
the Fifth Circuit who dismissed con-
cerns about glass ceilings for women,
sexual harassment, and the gender pay
gap as a Trojan horse for government
intervention. He was confirmed 50 to
47. This man would never have gotten
to this floor before we changed the
rules, and he now has a lifetime ap-
pointment.
The Senate confirmed a nominee for
the Eighth Circuit, even though the
American Bar Association rated him
unanimously as ‘‘not qualified’’—a
unanimous rating of ‘‘not qualified,’’
and he is now a circuit court judge
with a lifetime appointment. It has
never happened in our history. The
ABA questioned whether he ‘‘would be
able to detach himself from his deeply
held social agenda and political loy-
alty.’’ He was confirmed 50 to 48. They
said he was unqualified unanimously
because they thought his ideology
would blind him, and now he has a life-
time appointment.
The Senate confirmed a second judge
the ABA deemed unqualified for a dis-
trict court in Oklahoma. According to
the ABA, this nominee frequently
missed work, and when he did show up,
it was often in the middle of the day.
He was confirmed by 52 votes.
Last December, the Senate confirmed
a third judge the ABA found unquali-
fied with 50 votes. He barely made it,
but Vice President PENCE made a trip
from the White House to break the tie.
The partisan temper that is destroy-
ing this place needs to come to an end,
and we need to make sure, between
now and whenever that happens, that
we don’t take down the rest of govern-
ment with us.
The Founders didn’t design the court
to be an extension of our partisan fool-
ishness. The independent judiciary is
responsible for enforcing the rule of
law, which is at the heart of our demo-
cratic Republic. It is what separates us
from so many other countries around
the world that have failing economies
because no one subscribes to the rule of
law or that are filled with corrupt in-
stitutions, where rules are bent, bro-
ken, or ignored, with no thought about
what is going to be left for tomorrow
but just the looting of the economy for
the benefit of people today.
The Constitution makes it clear that
the Senate has a responsibility—we
have a constitutional responsibility—
to advise and consent on judicial nomi-
nations. There is no one else assigned
that responsibility. The House of Rep-
resentatives has nothing to do with it.
Through this decade-long—it is more
than that—20-year-long series of pre-
emptive retributions, where one party
says: If we don’t do it to them, they are
going to do it to us, we are now at the
point where we are destroying the judi-
ciary, and I think we should pull back
from the brink. I don’t think the ma-
jority leader should invoke the nuclear
option today, should break another
rule around here. No one else in Amer-
ica runs their operation by breaking
the rules.
Just in this session alone, we have
seen not only this, not only this viola-
tion of our norms and our customs, of
the rule of law, of our responsibility to
advise and consent, we have seen the
same people support the President’s
extraconstitutional destruction of the
rule of law when he claimed an emer-
gency to fund his wall or to fund $5 bil-
lion for his wall, which, by the way, he
said had already been largely built.
Just like the majority leader today is
saying, we have a record number of
judges who have been confirmed since
President Trump has been put in office,
but we are not moving quickly enough
so I have to change the rules by using
the nuclear option.
I need to declare an emergency to
build the wall, even though it is almost
complete because of my excellent ad-
ministration.
It is all gibberish, and it is all meant
just to get a result for partisan rea-
sons.
I think when the history is written
about this period of our political sys-
tem, this is all going to look like a
tragic farce—all of it. People are going
to know, when they write an op-ed
piece on April Fools’ and say one thing,
and they have spent the last 20 years
doing something else, that is not going
to be lost to the pages of history. Peo-
ple are going to know how the system
worked when we arrived here, when the
people who were in this Chamber ar-
rived, including myself, and maybe in
some tiny, little footnote there will be
something that says: Well, at least
BENNET was out here admitting the
mistake he made to contribute to this
disaster.
For the life of me, I don’t know why
we aren’t correcting course. We are
free people. Everybody in this Cham-
ber, I think, should have an incentive
to try to be remembered well and to be
remembered as a good steward of this
place and of the work we did here. I
doubt very much, when our careers are
at an end, what people are going to say
is, the good news is, they broke the
rules.
I know what the result is going to be
today. I know my friend from Okla-
homa has actually worked hard to see
if he could get a bipartisan result here,
and today that has been impossible,
but what I really hope is that we can
change what we are doing in the Sen-
ate so we can protect and preserve the
independence of our judiciary and that
maybe we will even move beyond the
bipartisanship that is bringing the Sen-
ate to its knees today.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. LANKFORD. Madam President,
Republicans believe, regardless of who
the President is, they should be able to
hire their staff. I can say we not only
believe that, we practice that.
In 2013, there was an ongoing debate
over nominations with President
Obama. Democrats and Republicans
came together to resolve the time issue
for nominations under President
Obama. Democrats asked Republicans
to join them to say: Let’s fix the prob-
lem we have with the length of time on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:31 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.009 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2216 April 3, 2019
nominations because it is taking too
long, and so they made a proposal. It
was 2 hours, equally divided—so it
would actually be 1 hour—for district
court judges, 8 hours for other nomi-
nees, which again equally divided
would actually be 4 hours total for
other lower nominees, 30 hours for cir-
cuit court, Supreme Court, Cabinet of-
ficers.
Republicans joined with Democrats
in 2013 and with 78 votes at the begin-
ning of President Obama’s second
term—and may I remind this body, Re-
publicans were not excited about Presi-
dent Obama’s second term—Repub-
licans joined with Democrats on this
one principle: Every President should
be able to hire their own staff and their
staff not be blocked. When the Amer-
ican people vote for a President, this
body should respect the vote of the
American people and allow that Presi-
dent to hire their staff. Now, when
President Trump was elected, Demo-
crats have 128 times blocked President
Trump from getting his nominees—128
times.
I have, for now 2 years, met with my
Democratic colleagues, and I have
asked, let’s put back into place exactly
what Republicans voted with Demo-
crats to do. I am asking Democrats to
now vote with Republicans to do that.
They have said no for 2 years.
So I simplified the proposal and said:
Let’s just make it straightforward and
simple, taken from the same principles
Harry Reid put forward under Presi-
dent Obama. Let’s make that perma-
nent, no matter who the President is
now or in the future. Let’s make it
consistent and straightforward.
I was told no by every single Demo-
crat, with this one exception. I will
vote for that proposal as long as it
starts in January of 2021. I am glad you
Republicans joined with Democrats,
they would say, to help President
Obama get nominees, but we will not
help President Trump and will block
him all the way through. Now, if you
want to open this up for 2021, we will be
glad to be able to help.
I want to reiterate that Republicans
believe whoever the President is, when
the American people select a Presi-
dent, they should be able to hire their
staff. I wish my Democratic colleagues
believed the same thing. Because of
that, we are making a change today. I
have worked for months, meeting with
Democratic colleagues, trying to find
some way we could come to an agree-
ment as was done in 2013, where Repub-
licans and Democrats came together to
resolve this. I have been rebuffed for 2
years. Not a single Democrat has been
willing to join us in this, not a single
one. That is unfortunate.
At the end of the day, we will try to
restore this body back to how it used
to function for two centuries, when
every President was allowed to get a
hearing for their nominees and get a
vote in the Senate. For two centuries,
we functioned that way. I think it is
not unreasonable to function that way
again in this body.
I look forward to this dialogue, and I
look forward to the day we can get this
issue resolved so we can get back to
the work of legislation because we
can’t even get to legislation right now
because we are blocked on nomina-
tions. So let’s get the nomination issue
resolved, as we have for two centuries,
and then let’s get on to legislation and
finish the task.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, we raise
this point today, not just because of
what has happened to Donald Trump’s
nominees over the last 2 years, but we
reached this point because 16 years ago
the Senator from New York started
this Senate down a path that was un-
precedented in 200 years. For 200 years,
any President’s nominees got an up-or-
down vote. That was the custom, the
unwritten rule, if you will.
Starting in 2003, specifically geared
toward a brilliant young lawyer named
Miguel Estrada, the Senator from New
York warped those unwritten rules and
customs. That has brought us to where
we are today. So today Senator SCHU-
MER will reap what he sowed. I will call
it Miguel Estrada’s revenge.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
call be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The cloture motion having been pre-
sented under rule XXII, the Chair di-
rects the clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Jeffrey Kessler, of Virginia, to be
an Assistant Secretary of Commerce.
Mitch McConnell, Steve Daines, John
Thune, John Cornyn, James M. Inhofe,
Pat Roberts, Mike Crapo, Chuck Grass-
ley, Richard Burr, John Barrasso,
Jerry Moran, Roy Blunt, Shelley
Moore Capito, John Boozman, Johnny
Isakson, Thom Tillis, John Hoeven.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
mandatory quorum call has been
waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Jeffrey Kessler, of Virginia, to be an
Assistant Secretary of Commerce shall
be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Mississippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS) is
necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 95,
nays 3, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 58 Ex.]
YEAS—95
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—3
Gillibrand Sanders Warren
NOT VOTING—2
Harris Hyde-Smith
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote the yeas are 95, the nays are 3.
The motion is agreed to.
The Democratic leader.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, this is
a very sad day for the Senate. At a
time when Leader MCCONNELL brags
about confirming more judges than
anyone has done in a very long time,
he feels the need to invoke the terribly
destructive and disproportionate proce-
dure of the nuclear option in order to
fast-track even more of President
Trump’s ultraconservative nominees to
the Federal bench.
Before I discuss that in greater de-
tail, I want to note for the record that
Democrats were prepared to confirm
the nomination of Mr. Kessler by unan-
imous consent, so the cloture vote we
had was unnecessary.
If you have been listening to Sen-
ators debate this issue in recent days,
you have heard a lot of claims and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.011 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2217
April 3, 2019
counterclaims about cloture votes,
about rates of confirmation for circuit
and district courts in different Con-
gresses, about judicial vacancies and
other arcane things that may not
sound very illuminating. So I want to
start by making clear what this debate
is really all about. I want to issue a
warning about what is at stake in this
fight. Underneath all of the statistics,
what Leader MCCONNELL, President
Trump, and Republicans in the Senate
are trying to do is use the courts to
adopt the far-right agenda that Repub-
licans know they cannot enact through
the legislative process.
Why can’t they? Because it is an
agenda the American people reject, an
agenda set by the far right, which Re-
publicans in the Senate follow.
Senator MCCONNELL and Republicans
in Washington understand that they
will never persuade enough Americans
to support backward goals like ending
women’s reproductive freedom, taking
away healthcare, rolling back civil
rights, making it more difficult to
vote, or abolishing safeguards for clean
air and clean water.
Instead, they decided there was an-
other route to achieving their policy
goals, one that requires neither public
support nor legislation: the courts. So
Republicans, pressured by the hard
right and by wealthy, special interest
donors, launched a sustained effort to
pack the courts with very conservative
judges, preferably young ones, who
would sit on the bench for decades.
These prospective judges were identi-
fied as early as law school, having sig-
naled their hard-right leanings through
their writings or membership in con-
servative groups like the Federalist
Society.
Nominees like these started to ap-
pear during the George W. Bush admin-
istration. Take Miguel Estrada, a Bush
nominee with no judicial experience,
who held membership in the Federalist
Society but had no writings and
claimed he had never even thought
about Roe v. Wade.
Or take William Pryor, another Bush
nominee, who called Roe ‘‘the worst
abomination in the history of constitu-
tional law’’ and who argued that States
should have the right to criminalize
homosexuality.
Or take Charles Pickering, who advo-
cated a reduced sentence for a man
convicted of burning a cross in the
front yard of an interracial couple.
Before the Republicans launched
their campaign to remake the courts,
neither party would have dared put for-
ward such radical nominees.
Starting with his campaign and into
his Presidency, President Donald
Trump has been captive—totally cap-
tive—to the conservative campaign to
take over the courts. Before he was a
Presidential candidate, Mr. Trump had
been a Democrat and a person with no
fixed judicial philosophy, so conserv-
atives didn’t trust him. He and his ad-
visers came up with a solution: Ask the
Federalist Society to produce a list of
far-right Supreme Court nominees, and
then have candidate Trump pledge to
only nominate people on that list. And
not just the Supreme Court—the Fed-
eralist Society is and continues to be a
huge influence on nominees to the cir-
cuit courts.
No other Presidential candidate had
so willingly and openly outsourced ju-
dicial nominations this way, but it
mollified the hard right, and the Presi-
dent has dutifully nominated people
from the list to the Supreme Court. He
has made similarly ideological choices
for the circuit and district courts.
This is an alarming strategy because,
over the last 2 years, President Trump
has nominated and Senate Republicans
have advanced the most unqualified
and radical nominees in modern times.
Consider the nomination of Ryan
Bounds, who misled the Oregon Sen-
ators’ bipartisan judicial selection
committee about his controversial
writings in the past, writings in which
he dismissed efforts to increase diver-
sity as mere ‘‘race-think,’’ criticized
Stanford University’s suggested pun-
ishment for students who defaced an
LGBT pride statue, criticized a student
group for protesting against a hotel
company that had fired workers trying
to unionize, and disregarded the value
of university disciplinary actions
against students accused of sexual vio-
lence. Five of the seven members of Or-
egon’s in-State screening committee,
including the committee’s chair, said
they would not have recommended
Bounds had they known of his college
writings when they first interviewed
him. Fortunately, it became clear that
a few Republicans would not support
Mr. Bounds on the floor, and the nomi-
nation was withdrawn.
Consider the nomination of Thomas
Farr, who has an extensive record de-
fending discriminatory voting laws and
racial gerrymandering in North Caro-
lina. He is also credibly alleged to have
played a role in the voter suppression
efforts of the Jesse Helms campaign,
including sending over 100,000 postcards
to heavily African-American precincts
that ‘‘falsely told voters they could be
found ineligible to vote based on sev-
eral conditions involving place and
length of residence.’’ Amazingly, after
something as despicable as that, Presi-
dent Trump and Leader MCCONNELL
pushed hard for his nomination, but it
could not withstand scrutiny by the
Senate and was ultimately withdrawn
due to the united Democratic opposi-
tion and a few conscientious Repub-
lican Senators.
I would note that in the cases of both
Mr. Farr and Mr. Bounds, the Repub-
lican concerns emerged only at the end
of postcloture debate time, which Re-
publicans now propose to limit. Had we
had only 2 hours, horrible nominees—
way beyond the bounds of normal nom-
ination and discourse, even from con-
servatives—like Farr, like Bounds
would be sitting on the courts today.
I agree with what my colleague Sen-
ator KLOBUCHAR has said:
Two hours for a lifetime appointment . . .
is unacceptable.
She said:
Two hours for a lifetime appointment, with
huge influence on people’s lives, is unaccept-
able. It’s ridiculous. It’s a mockery of how
this institution should work.
It is not just the courts. There are
many examples in the executive branch
as well. Ann Marie Buerkle, nominated
to chair the CPSC—just today the Post
reported that this nominee blocked ac-
tion at the Commission to recall hun-
dreds of thousands of potentially defec-
tive baby strollers, even in the face of
reports that they caused ‘‘potentially
life-threatening injuries.’’ She even
kept Democratic Commissioners in the
dark about the investigation.
Of course, there is Chad Readler, who
led the charge to end preexisting condi-
tion protections. President Trump and
Senate Republicans, the self-declared
‘‘party of healthcare,’’ rewarded him
by overwhelmingly confirming him to
a lifetime position as a circuit court
judge. Despite Mr. Readler’s con-
spicuous role in trying to curtail
Americans’ healthcare, no Republicans
were willing to stand up to President
Trump and vote against his confirma-
tion.
At this point, people listening to
these proceedings might be asking
themselves: What happened when a
Democratic President occupied the
White House?
The answer is that Republicans, led
by Senator MCCONNELL, remained
undeterred. In such times, they chose
to employ the extraordinary tactic of
denying confirmation to a Democratic
President’s nominees in order to hold
vacancies open until a Republican
could regain the Presidency. It was an
audacious and insidious gambit, a way
to nullify a Democratic President’s
power to fill judicial vacancies.
We saw this tactic during the Clinton
administration, when Republicans on
the Judiciary Committee killed a num-
ber of President Clinton’s quite mod-
erate judicial nominees, even without
the basic courtesy of a hearing.
We saw it again during the Obama
administration, when Republicans used
the filibuster and other forms of delay
to more than double the number of cir-
cuit and district court vacancies. Dur-
ing Obama’s last 2 years in office, the
Republican Senate confirmed fewer cir-
cuit court nominees than any Congress
in 70 years.
Then, in March of 2016, Senator
MCCONNELL and Senate Republicans
took this maneuver to a new Machia-
vellian low. They refused to even con-
sider President Obama’s nomination to
the Supreme Court of the United
States, Circuit Judge Merrick Garland,
one of the most respected jurists in the
Nation, a man known not only for his
judicial excellence and perfect judicial
temperament but his moderation. In
fact, Senator Orrin Hatch, a conserv-
ative’s conservative and the former
chairman of Judiciary Committee, had
previously endorsed Judge Garland for
the Supreme Court.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:45 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.015 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2218 April 3, 2019
But the merits didn’t concern Sen-
ator MCCONNELL. His cynical strategy
required Republicans to block the Gar-
land nomination for almost a year
until after President Obama’s second
term ended, and that is exactly what
they did. It was widely condemned as a
naked power grab that nullified the
President’s constitutional authority. It
was a terrible, deeply lamentable mo-
ment for our democracy and our Con-
stitution. Yet, as the New York Times
reported, Senator MCCONNELL said it
was one of his ‘‘proudest achieve-
ments.’’
After President Trump took office,
Republicans sensed an opportunity to
grease the conveyer belt even more.
Senator MCCONNELL ordered the Judi-
ciary Committee chairman to do away
with the longstanding practice that
Senators be consulted about district
court nominees in their home States.
The blue-slip tradition ensured that ju-
dicial nominees reflected the ideology
and values of the State to which they
were nominated. It provided some
healthy counterbalance against nomi-
nees who were outside the mainstream
from either party or were lacking in
proper qualifications. Thanks to Sen-
ate Republicans, led by Senator
MCCONNELL, that protection is now his-
tory.
So when Republicans complain about
Democratic handling of nominees,
there is no other word for it but hypoc-
risy. You don’t have to take my word
for it. According to the Congressional
Research Service, more circuit judges
have been confirmed in the first 2 years
of the Trump administration than in
the first 2 years of any Presidency
since at least the Truman administra-
tion.
The majority leader himself has cele-
brated the pace of confirmations. He
bragged about it to the Heritage Foun-
dation. He said this to them a few
months ago:
We confirmed every circuit judge. We’ve
now done 29 circuit judges. That is a record
for this quick in any administration in his-
tory.
Those are Leader MCCONNELL’s
words, not mine.
Now we have to change the rules,
even though you have confirmed more
circuit court judges than anyone in
history. That is a shame. That is a dis-
grace. That is not the Senate we want.
For Leader MCCONNELL to brag about
confirming more judges than ever be-
fore and then to complain about Demo-
cratic obstruction and say that the
process is broken so you have to
change the rules is the height of hypoc-
risy.
Leader MCCONNELL and Senate Re-
publicans also complain about the pace
of confirmation for President Trump’s
executive branch and independent
Agency choices. They conveniently
omit Republicans’ sorry record of ob-
struction of nominees to Democratic
seats at important agencies like the
NLRB, the FDIC, and the SEC, which
have suffered as Republicans caused
dedicated public servants like former
NLRB Chair Mark Pearce to languish
for months or even years.
It is actually a little surprising that
Leader MCCONNELL and his Republican
colleagues would draw attention to the
subject of executive nominees now,
given the appalling history of incom-
petence, corruption, and venality
among President Trump’s so-called
‘‘best people,’’ not to mention the fact
that there are hundreds of vacancies
the President can’t even be bothered to
fill.
Staffing the government is serious
business and so is the system of justice
assigned to the courts by our Constitu-
tion. They both deserve better than the
Senate Republicans’ cynical, partisan
efforts to turn the Senate into a con-
veyer belt for ideological conserv-
atives.
The notion that President Trump’s
judicial nominees have been treated
unfairly is simply false. There is no
truth to it, as all of these statistics
that I have talked about have shown.
What Republicans really want to see is
the elimination of yet another norm of
the Senate so they can automate and
expedite the nomination process with-
out a modicum of debate. They are all
for ‘‘consent’’ with no ‘‘advice.’’ With
all undue haste, they want to pack the
courts with partisan warriors, not im-
partial jurists. It is outrageous.
Democrats have a different view of
who should sit on the Federal bench.
We have a different view of the role of
this Chamber. Our judicial system
works best when we hold nominees to
three simple standards: excellence,
moderation, and diversity. These are
not ideological litmus tests. They are
the pillars of a healthy system of jus-
tice. They are the benchmarks by
which we can rest assured that the men
and women who are appointed to the
Federal bench will respect the rule of
law and execute their duties impar-
tially.
It cuts both ways. When Republicans
are prepared to act in good faith and
advance nominees of high caliber, we
are ready to give them the consider-
ation they deserve. For generations,
the Senate has done the work of the
American people through consensus,
through compromise, and through co-
operation. It has been a place where
seemingly impossible disagreements
have found sensible solutions. Indeed,
the legacy of the Senate is the story of
debate—ample debate—followed by
compromise. It is in large part thanks
to the rules that govern how this
Chamber works. It is crucial that those
rules not be twisted or abused for par-
tisan advantage.
The majority, by taking yet another
step to erode that legacy, risks turning
this body into a colosseum of zero-sum
infighting—a place where the brute
power of the majority rules, with little
or no regard for the concerns of the mi-
nority party, and where longstanding
rules have little or no meaning.
I am so sorry my Republican col-
leagues have gone along with Senator
MCCONNELL’s debasement of the Sen-
ate. To do this for such blatantly polit-
ical ends is simply unworthy of this in-
stitution.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. One of the advan-
tages of having been around the ‘‘ad-
vice and consent’’ process for as long as
I have is that I know a little history. I
was actually here as a young staffer on
the Judiciary Committee when Richard
Nixon appointed two Supreme Court
Justices who were defeated. During
most of those years, our Democratic
friends were in the majority here in the
Senate. They could have done whatever
they wanted to on the executive cal-
endar to slow down, obstruct, and pre-
vent Republican Presidents from hav-
ing nominations confirmed.
I can remember during the Clinton
years the urging of both Senator
Daschle and Senator Lott—when my
party was in the majority—to invoke
cloture on circuit court nominees
whom I opposed in order to keep the
Senate from developing a process of
filibustering the executive calendar,
which had never been done before.
The clearest example of why it was
never done before is the Clarence
Thomas nomination—the most con-
troversial nomination for the Supreme
Court in history, with the possible ex-
ception of Brett Kavanaugh. He came
out of committee with a dead-even
vote. They could have killed him in
committee. He went to the floor and
was confirmed 52 to 48. We all know it
only takes one Senator, just one, to
make us get 60 votes on something.
Joe Biden and Ted Kennedy were
hard over against Clarence Thomas,
but nobody—not one of the 100 Sen-
ators—said you have to get 60 votes.
Clarence Thomas was confirmed 52 to
48 and has been on the Supreme Court
for 30 years. He would never have been
there if a single Senator—just one—had
said you had to get 60 votes. My
friends, I call that a pretty firm tradi-
tion that you don’t filibuster the exec-
utive calendar. Was it possible? Yes, it
was possible. It just wasn’t done.
When did all of this start? Well, the
junior Senator from New York got
elected in 1998. George W. Bush gets
elected in 2000. The alarms go off. They
are going to appoint a bunch of crazy
rightwingers to the circuit courts.
So my good friend the Democratic
leader, at a seminar or a meeting, in-
vited a couple of people named Lau-
rence Tribe and Cass Sunstein—two
rather famous liberal law professors—
and they had a discussion about what
to do about these awful rightwing
judges who are going to be sent up.
The conclusion was to open the tool-
box, take out whatever tool would
work, and save America from these
kinds of people. And so they did. The
poster child for that was Miguel
Estrada, who they said openly they
were afraid was going to give President
Bush the opportunity to make the first
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:45 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.016 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2219
April 3, 2019
Hispanic appointment to the Supreme
Court. We had all-night filibusters. We
actually stayed up all night trying to
make a point.
It didn’t make a difference. Ulti-
mately, we thought maybe we should
employ the so-called nuclear option.
We ended up not doing it after there
was a gang of 14 that developed and
worked out an agreement, and some of
the nominees were confirmed and some
weren’t. Yet what had been clearly es-
tablished was that now the norm in the
Senate was that you filibuster anybody
that you want to on the executive cal-
endar. That had then been established
as a matter of practice, and that con-
tinued through the Bush years. There
was actually an effort to keep Justice
Alito from being on the Supreme Court
by requiring a filibuster for the pur-
pose of defeating Justice Alito, but it
was not successful. A number of circuit
judges were stopped.
When we fast-forward to the Obama
years, our side used the filibuster twice
to defeat two circuit judges over a pe-
riod of 51⁄2 years. Majority Leader
Harry Reid decided, in his zeal, to pack
the DC Circuit—that this had gone on
long enough. So, in November 2013, I
believe it was, the nuclear option was
employed. The threshold was lowered
to 51 for everybody on the Executive
Calendar except for the Supreme Court.
The DC Circuit court judges were con-
firmed. At the time, I said I didn’t like
the way it was done. I thought maybe
those on the other side would rue the
day they did it.
Amazingly enough, about a year and
a half later, I was the majority leader.
Funny how these things change, isn’t
it?
A number of my Members came up
and said: Why don’t we change it back.
I said: Look, I don’t think we like the
way they did it, but this is the way the
Executive Calendar was handled for 200
years until Senator SCHUMER and his
allies Laurence Tribe and a cast unseen
said: Well, why don’t we use any tool in
the toolbox to stop judicial appoint-
ments?
I discouraged our going back to 60 be-
cause I had actually seen that both
sides had respected their using a simple
majority on the Executive Calendar
down to 2003, so we didn’t.
Now, look, with regard to these con-
tinued complaints about Merrick Gar-
land, that is not what this proposal is
about. This proposal is about sub-Cabi-
net appointments and district judges.
For those of you who were not here in
2013, it is almost identical to what al-
most every one of you voted for in
2013—a standing order that lasted 2
years and a good number of us giving
President Obama the opportunity to
advance these sub-Cabinet appoint-
ments and district judges more quick-
ly.
Let’s talk about district judges for a
minute. Chairman GRASSLEY and
Chairman GRAHAM honored the blue
slip for district judges. There are 47 of
you guys. There is not a single district
judge who comes out here on the cal-
endar who doesn’t have two blue slips
returned from whomever the Senators
are from the home State. What that
means is that you guys are not irrele-
vant on district judge appointments.
You are not irrelevant. For example, I
tried to get my good friend the Demo-
cratic leader to approve a list of 30 dis-
trict judges last fall, and 14 of them
were from blue States. Oh, no. He was
not going to do any district judges on
a voice vote even if he were for them.
So, look, all this proposal does that
we are talking about today is reduce
the postcloture time for sub-Cabinet
appointments—just like we helped you
all do in 2013—and for district judges,
none of whom will even be on the cal-
endar until both blue slips are returned
positively. It is not exactly a radical
change.
Back to Merrick Garland for a
minute. Look, I made the decision—
and my colleagues on the Republican
side joined me in making that deci-
sion—because I knew for sure, for abso-
lute certainty, that if the roles were
reversed and there were a Republican
President and a Democratic Senate,
you wouldn’t have filled the vacancy.
How did I know that? You have to go
back to the 1880s to find the last time
a vacancy on the Supreme Court oc-
curred in the middle of a Presidential
election year and was confirmed by a
Senate of a different party from the
President’s—1880.
Oh, but that was not enough. In 1992,
our friend Joe Biden, the chairman of
the Judiciary Committee, with a Re-
publican in the White House, a Demo-
cratic Senate, and no vacancy on the
Supreme Court, helpfully opined that if
a vacancy occurred, he wouldn’t fill it.
Oh, but guess what. Eighteen months
before the end of the Bush 43 term, the
majority leader of the Senate, Harry
Reid, and a fellow named CHUCK SCHU-
MER said that if a vacancy occurred,
they wouldn’t fill it. That was 18
months before the end of the Bush
term.
On the business of filibustering the
Executive Calendar, there is one thing
I left out, and I want to catch up here.
Back in 2003, when my good friend the
Democratic leader started all of this
that we have been wrestling with since
then, he said: I am the leader of the fil-
ibuster movement, and I am proud of
it. The Buffalo News, May 27, 2003. I am
the leader of the filibuster movement,
and I am proud of it. The Buffalo News.
CHARLES E. SCHUMER recommended
using an extreme tactic—a filibuster—
to block some of the Bush administra-
tion’s nominees for Federal judgeships.
Talk about being proud of something.
He started this whole thing that we
have been wrestling with since 2003. He
cooked it up and convinced his col-
leagues to do it, and once it started, it
continued until 2013 when it was turned
off.
So, look, where are we? The Execu-
tive Calendar is very close to being re-
turned to the way it was treated by
both parties down to 2000—not the leg-
islative calendar but the Executive
Calendar. There is nothing radical
about this. He is acting like it is a sad
day for the Senate. If you want to pick
a sad day for the Senate, go back to
2003 when we started filibustering the
Executive Calendar. He started it. That
was a sad day. This is a glad day. We
are trying to end the dysfunction on
the Executive Calendar.
Let’s talk about dysfunction. There
were 128 cloture votes in the last Con-
gress, many of them on nominees for
whom there were no objections at all—
128. Goodness gracious. In the first 2
years of each of the last six Presidents,
cumulatively, the majority leader of
whichever party had to do that 24
times in order to try to advance a nom-
ination.
So don’t hand me any of this ‘‘sad
day in the Senate’’ stuff. What has
been going on here is completely and
totally unacceptable. Do you know
why I know that? It is because many of
your Members, Mr. Leader, have told
me privately that they would be happy
to do this provided it would take effect
in January 2021. Oh, what might hap-
pen in January 2021? I can’t imagine.
Well, it might be a Democratic Presi-
dent and a Democratic Senate. I can
understand—but, oh, not now.
Look, we know you don’t like Donald
Trump, but there was an election. He is
at least entitled to set up the adminis-
tration and make it function. With re-
gard to the judiciary and circuit
judges, every President of both parties
feels it is his prerogative.
Senator ALEXANDER has pointed out
the history of the blue slip. There has
been a little confusion about that. He
has noted that blue slips were not used
as an absolute veto over judicial nomi-
nees until—listen to this—the 1950s,
when former Judiciary Committee
Chairman James Eastland of Mis-
sissippi afforded them the status be-
cause he did not want Federal judges
who had been appointed by President
Eisenhower to interfere with segrega-
tionist policies in the Jim Crow South.
When he became the Judiciary Com-
mittee chairman, our former colleague
Ted Kennedy restored blue slips to
their historical purpose of ensuring
consultation as opposed to serving as a
one-Member veto of a qualified judicial
nominee.
All we have done is restore blue slips
for circuit court nominees to the con-
sultative function they have played for
most of their history.
I have been under Presidents of both
parties. They do not defer to us on cir-
cuit court judges. We don’t get to pick
them. We almost do get to pick them
when they are district court judges and
when we are of the same party as the
White House. We have a lot of clout be-
cause the chairmen honor the blue
slips for district court judges. They are
entirely contained within our States,
and none of them get out here on the
floor unless the Senators approve
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.017 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2220 April 3, 2019
them. There are 47 of these guys over
here who are not toothless when it
comes to district judges.
So this is not a bad day for the Sen-
ate; this is a day we end this com-
pletely outrageous level of interference
and obstruction with this administra-
tion. I don’t think anybody ought to be
seized with guilt over any institutional
damage being done to the Senate.
POINT OF ORDER
Mr. President, I raise a point of order
that postcloture time under rule XXII
for all executive branch nominations
other than a position at level 1 of the
Executive Schedule under section 5312
of title 5 of the United States Code is 2
hours.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). Under rule XXII of the Standing
Rules of the Senate, the point of order
is not sustained.
APPEAL RULING OF THE CHAIR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
appeal the ruling of the Chair and ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There is a sufficient second.
The question is, Shall the decision of
the Chair stand as the judgment of the
Senate?
The yeas and nays have been ordered.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS) is
necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 48,
nays 51, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 59 Ex.]
YEAS—48
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NAYS—51
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NOT VOTING—1
Harris
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate overrules the decision of the Chair.
The Senator from Missouri.
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, in the
last vote today we established a new
precedent. The rules of the Senate are
a combination of the rules of the Sen-
ate, the standing orders of the Senate,
and the precedents of the Senate. Sen-
ator LANKFORD and I had hoped to do
this with a permanent standing order
that basically would have put the Sen-
ate exactly where the bipartisan vote
was in 2013, which included my vote, to
have the same kind of rules that we are
encouraging now. This process is de-
signed to speed up not only nominees
for Republican Presidents but also
nominees for Presidents who are Demo-
crats.
In the last 2 years, we have seen an
extraordinary use of every tool avail-
able to the minority. The Senate is de-
signed to be a place where the minority
is heard. In fact, at one time, any Sen-
ator could stop everything forever, and
when Senators started doing that to
excess, that rule was changed. The pro-
tections of the minority often have to
be looked at again when the minority
abuses those protections. That is what
has happened in this case.
Now we have 2 hours of debate on the
nominee we are debating right now. If
we hadn’t just taken the vote we took
that overruled the Chair, we would
have 30 hours of debate. I guarantee
that there will not be 2 hours of debate
about this nominee. There may not be
2 minutes of debate about this nominee
if we see what we have seen happened
in the last 2 years.
The rules of the Senate currently say
that if any Senator wants to hold up
consideration of a nominee, then, the
Senator can insist that we go through
the process of invoking cloture. In the
first 2 years of the Obama administra-
tion, that process was used 12 times,
and that was more than had been the
case in the past. In fact, the previous 3
Presidents had cloture invoked on
their nominees a total of 12 times.
That is 24 times in 4 Presidencies. In
the first 2 years of President Trump’s
time in office, the majority leader had
to come to the floor 128 times and say
we are going to have to invoke cloture
to have a chance to vote on this nomi-
nee.
It is the first week of April. Eleven
times this year already the Senate has
had to invoke cloture on a nominee for
a government job—for a judgeship or
some other government job. While that
debate time was seldom used, occasion-
ally, at the end of the week, we would
say: Well, OK, we will just go ahead
and do the last one. Each time, we had
to assume that 30 hours would be used
up for those people to be processed and
to have a chance to do the jobs that
they were going to do.
The history of the Senate is exactly
as the majority leader described here
earlier. In the first 200-plus years of the
Senate, while the Senate often used a
delaying tactic to delay legislation and
require the Senate to think about it
more, the Senate virtually never used
the rules of the Senate to slow down
the process of putting people in the
Cabinet.
In fact, several Presidents—and
Presidents in this century—had their
full Cabinet put in place within the
first day or two of their administra-
tion. That didn’t happen with this
President, and it is obviously what
brought us to where we are today.
Usually, in the first couple of years
of a new administration, the President
not only gets his Cabinet approved
right away, but the President is also
able to put people around those Cabi-
net officers who want to move the gov-
ernment in the same direction that the
voters just said they wanted the coun-
try to go.
The term of an administration is
only 4 years. At the end of 2 years, if
you are sending back 124 nominees who
just simply didn’t get voted on—they
got investigated, they got the back-
ground checks done, they went through
the committee, and the committee
voted to send them to the floor—that
was always supposed to be part of the
work of the committee, and that hap-
pened for 124 people who never had a
chance to get voted on in the first 2
years of this administration, many of
whom had been waiting in line for a
year.
Now, if you are appointed and have a
short-term job in the Federal Govern-
ment and are willing to serve, the one
thing that does for sure is to put your
life in some chaos—coming up with the
material that the Congress insists on,
going through the background check,
and getting your financial records out.
For most people, it also means putting
the way they make a living on hold.
I had somebody whom I nominated as
one of three people for the President to
choose from to be the district judge in
the Eastern District of Missouri. I
made that nomination roughly 24
months ago. Twenty-two months ago,
the President told the person he chose
that he was going to nominate that
person. Last November, after a year
and a half of that person telling all his
law clients, ‘‘You know, I am about to
become a Federal judge; you may need
to find another lawyer,’’ and after he
closed his legal process, he hasn’t been
voted on yet. That man was one of the
people sent back from the White House.
He had to be sent back up this year and
had to go through the Judiciary Com-
mittee again. He had to get back in a
line, where every single person took 30
hours of debate, after the 1 day that
had to be debatable between the time
the leader brings you up and you come
to the floor.
This sounds pretty complicated. That
is because it is, and it is made more
complicated by the fact that people
have used it as a delaying tactic.
Now, as for the 128 people whom I
mentioned—the 128 people whom the
majority leader had to file cloture on—
compared to 12, let’s be sure we are
comparing this the way this used to be,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.018 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2221
April 3, 2019
even in recent years to now—128 com-
pared to 12. When those 128 people fi-
nally got votes, the support was sub-
stantial. When they finally got votes,
one-third of them got 70 votes or more.
Thirteen percent got 90 votes or more.
So you have 90 people voting for people
that someone insisted we needed 30
hours of debate for, and there wasn’t a
debate at all.
Twenty district judges had cloture
filed on them. Twelve of those district
judges had nobody vote against them
after 30 hours on the floor, where, in all
likelihood, nobody had anything to say
during those 30 hours.
The average amount of time that we
spent talking about nominees during
the 30 hours that has been insisted on
is less than 1 hour. The person who
generated the most discussion, at least
this year, was the new Attorney Gen-
eral. That is a pretty important job.
There should have been quite a bit of
discussion. In fact, it was our inten-
tion—the intention of the standing
order that Senator LANKFORD and I
filed—and it will continue to be the in-
tention, that that person will still have
30 hours of debate if anybody thought
that was necessary.
Supreme Court justices, Cabinet
members, and circuit judges would all
have 30 hours of debate. But even with
the Attorney General, less than 4 hours
was used to talk about what everybody
listening would believe is one of the
most important jobs possible.
For the 10 other nominees who have
had cloture filed on them prior to this
week, almost no debate time was used.
In fact, again, even in the case of At-
torney General William Barr, four-
thirtieths of the time was used. That
means that twenty-six-thirtieths of the
time wasn’t used, but we couldn’t use
it for anything else. We couldn’t use it
for another nominee. We couldn’t use it
for a piece of legislation. We couldn’t
use it to talk about how the govern-
ment spends its money basically to de-
bate an appropriations bill that would
be on the floor. It just couldn’t happen.
Last week, we confirmed Bridget
Bade to be a judge of the Ninth Circuit
Court of Appeals. We used less than 1
minute of the 30 hours that the minor-
ity insisted on—less than 1 minute of
the 30 hours—but nothing else could be
done during those 30 hours.
Every Member of the Senate knows
that the abuse of this process is done
to delay and to keep us from con-
firming not only other people who need
to be confirmed but to keep us from
getting to the work we need to get to.
It prevents us from taking up other
legislation. It prevents us from doing
our job.
It has to be discouraging when you
talk to people in the future about this:
Would you be willing to serve as the
Assistant Secretary of Commerce for
something? Would you be willing to
serve as the Assistant Deputy Sec-
retary of Treasury for IRS? And, by the
way, you really can’t start anything
new, and you may never get voted on.
When you do get voted on, you may not
actually be able to serve in that job for
more than a few months if you serve
the rest of the term of this Presidency.
People will begin to say no, and we
all know that.
Today we have 140 people who are
waiting to be voted on for jobs they
have been nominated for. They are now
out of committee. They have done all
the paperwork. They have cleared all of
the days. They have done everything
they needed to do.
When President Reagan was Presi-
dent, the average number of days be-
tween the time you were voted out of
committee and the time you were
voted on on the floor was 5 days. By
the time you had gotten out of com-
mittee, you had already been weeks, if
not months, into this process. Five
days later, you would get to know
whether or not you were going to get
the job.
With President Trump, the average
number of days between the time you
got out of committee and the time you
got voted on was 55. That is 55 days
when you are waiting to do the job that
you have been willing to do, have an-
swered every question you have been
asked, have gone through all of the
background checks you needed, and
you are still waiting.
This system cannot work that way.
We would never get everybody con-
firmed that a President is required to
nominate, which means we also would
never have time to get the other things
done that the Senate needs to do.
I think the step we took today was
an important one. We will talk about
another category of people to be con-
firmed later today—district judges. I
believe we will be able to make that
change as well. Again, the Cabinet, the
Supreme Court, and the circuit judges
would all still have 30 hours available
to them.
Our friends on the other side may
continue to insist on that, but if they
do, I guarantee that if you run a clock
on this, in all likelihood nobody will
ever use the 30 hours to talk about the
nominee. If we didn’t do it to talk
about William Barr, we are not hardly
going to do it to talk about anybody
else.
Debate is an important thing. Having
the right people in the right job is an
important thing. It is also important
to have them in the right job at the
right time. Today, I believe the Senate
is taking important steps to return
back to the traditional role of the Sen-
ate in confirming nominees and giving
Presidents an opportunity to do the job
they were elected to do.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The Senator from West
Virginia is recognized.
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
thank my colleague. He has more insti-
tutional knowledge, has been here
longer, and understands this process. I
haven’t been here as long, but I am try-
ing to put a little common sense to it,
and I am having a hard time.
I am not naive enough to stand up
thinking that if I could have given my
speech before we took that vote, it
might have made any difference. I wish
it would have. I wish I could have. But
it didn’t happen that way.
Words cannot express how dis-
appointed I am—I truly am—to stand
here as the only Member of the Senate
who voted against the nuclear option
in 2013 when it was a Democratic pro-
posal and in 2017, the Republican pro-
posal, and now what we did today. I
have consistently voted against this
because it is not who we are, and it is
not about what we are about either.
For those who don’t know, the nu-
clear option is strictly a gimmick that
allows the majority party to truly
steal the power of debate and the power
of the filibuster from individual Sen-
ators. Why does it matter? Because so
much of our influence as Senators
comes from our power to filibuster. It
is also the most powerful tool we have
to force compromise and to stand up
for the people we represent.
In spite of the importance of this
power, everyone else in the body who
has had the chance has voted to use the
nuclear option to lower the votes re-
quired to end debate from 60 votes to a
simple majority of 50 plus 1 on dif-
ferent types of nominees. That is a
tragedy for our constituents. For this
country, it is even more of a tragedy.
For the institution of the Senate, it is
a disaster.
This debate is not new, and I would
not be honoring the legacy of the late
Senator Robert C. Byrd, whose seat I
sit in, if I did not take the opportunity
to at least recite a little history here
on the floor of the Senate.
The Founding Fathers always in-
tended the Senate to be deliberate, and
we are known as the most deliberate
body in the world.
George Washington himself was said
to have told Thomas Jefferson that the
Senate should serve as a ‘‘cooling sau-
cer’’ for legislation from the House. As
you know, the House works on a simple
majority; 218 Democrats or 218 Repub-
licans can do anything they wish. The
Senate is supposed to temper that
down.
This body was created to protect the
rights of individual States—small
States in particular. In the Federalist
Papers, John Jay notes that ‘‘in this
spirit it may be remarked, that the
equal vote allowed to each State, is at
once a constitutional recognition of
the portion of sovereignty remaining in
the individual States, and an instru-
ment for preserving that residuary sov-
ereignty.’’
The filibuster is essential to pre-
serving that residual sovereignty, and
diminishing that power should matter
to anyone who comes from a small or
rural State like my State of West Vir-
ginia. This power was also meant to
empower individual Members, like me,
who often find themselves in the mi-
nority of their own party.
That doesn’t mean we can’t make
changes for efficiency. But today’s rule
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:45 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.020 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2222 April 3, 2019
change and the two that came before it
in 2013 and 2017 were not meant to
make this place more efficient; they
were meant to take power from each
and every Senator. That means you
and I have given up our power and our
ability to represent our States.
Before 1917, there was no way to end
a debate in the Senate whatsoever,
from our beginning, so one Member
could grind this place to a halt for
however long they felt necessary.
Then, at the urging of President Wood-
row Wilson, the Senate adopted rule
XXII that year, 1917, and first used it 2
years later to end a filibuster against
the Treaty of Versailles.
For the next 80-plus years, some
tweaks were made to the rule and its
reach was expanded, but there was no
real threat to the existence of the rule.
In 2005, that all changed when then-Ma-
jority Leader Bill Frist made the first
serious effort to change the rules of the
Senate and reduce the power of every
Member of this body by deploying the
nuclear option. None other than John
McCain and Robert C. Byrd, our dear
departed friends, teamed up to form
the Gang of 14 that cut a deal on a
package of nominations that took the
nuclear option off the table—but only
for a little while.
In 2013, when Harry Reid and Demo-
crats—my side of the aisle—voted to
end the filibuster for Presidential
nominees, I was one of only three
Democrats to fight and vote against it.
The other two, Mark Pryor and Carl
Levin, are no longer serving in the Sen-
ate today, but we represented all wings
of the Democratic Party—from the lib-
eral end, to the conservative end, to
the moderate centrist end. We stood to-
gether despite our differences because
we knew that it would forever lessen
the institution of the Senate and that
it would come back to bite us when we
weren’t in the majority. That was the
point we made at that time. That was
the argument we made and pleaded
with our colleagues.
For the past 5 years, we have seen
the consequences of those actions.
Today, our Republican friends are
using the same excuse our Democrats
used—historic obstruction. Democrats
are using the same argument today
that our Republican friends have
used—unprecedented overreach. This is
the hypocrisy that makes us under-
stand why people think Washington
sucks. It is on both sides. No one is in-
nocent on this.
In 2013, the current majority leader,
MITCH MCCONNELL, was furious about
what the Democrats were threatening
to do. He called it breaking the rules to
change the rules. And I agreed with
him. He was right. I voted with him.
In 2013, I heard and listened to Lead-
er MCCONNELL when he said:
The American people decided not to give
the Democrats the House, or to restore the
filibuster proof majority they had in the
Senate back in 2009, and our Democratic col-
leagues don’t like that one bit. They just
don’t like it. The American people are get-
ting in the way of what they’d like to do. So
they are trying to change the rules of the
game to get their way anyway.
This is precisely what the American
people decided about Republicans in
the 2018 election, and the Republicans
have now gone down the same path
Leader MCCONNELL warned us against.
You would think that at least we would
understand the definition of ‘‘insan-
ity’’—doing the same thing over and
over, thinking we are going to get a
different outcome. It doesn’t work that
way.
Leader MCCONNELL went on to say:
‘‘So look, I realize this sort of wishful
thinking might appeal to the
uninitiated newcomers in the Demo-
cratic conference who served exactly
zero days in the minority, but the rest
of you guys should know better.’’ And
he is absolutely correct. Everyone
should know better. Those of you who
have been in the minority before
should know better because what goes
around comes around.
His final warning, which I am dis-
appointed my Republican friends didn’t
listen to, was this:
If you think this is in the best interest of
the United States Senate and the American
people, to make advice and consent mean ef-
fectively nothing, obviously you can break
the rules to change the rules to achieve that.
That is what we have done.
But some of us have been around here long
enough to know that the shoe is sometimes
on the other foot.
While the majority leader and minor-
ity leader have flipped their positions
and their perspective today, the lesson
is clear: Breaking the Senate for polit-
ical expedience will, over time, hurt all
of us and, most importantly, our con-
stituents and the American people.
I firmly believe the filibuster is a
vital protection of minority views and
exactly why the Framers of our Con-
stitution made the Senate the cooling
saucer. Lately, both parties have lit
the saucer on fire and thrown it out the
window. The Senate was set up by our
Founding Fathers to force us to work
together. Think about that. They knew
that whatever we receive from the
House would be hot as a firecracker.
Someone had to put out the flame.
Someone had to know to say: That is
not who we are as a country, and it is
not basically who we want to be as a
country.
We are not the House of Representa-
tives, and by golly, we are going there
at a rapid pace—a rapid pace. It seems
that when people come from the House,
they bring that House mentality—
scorched and burned earth. That is not
what we were set up to be. This is a
very different body. It is the most
unique body in the world.
As the late great Robert C. Byrd him-
self said in the months before his
death, ‘‘While I welcome needed re-
form, we must always be mindful of our
responsibilities to preserve this insti-
tution’s special purpose.’’ And we are
better than this, he said.
I always tell people back home that I
can’t vote for something unless I can
go home and explain it. I don’t care if
it is an idea that my friends on the Re-
publican side have. It makes sense to
me. My constituents understand it. I
go home and vote and tell them why I
voted with my Republican friends. If I
vote with my Democratic friends and it
makes sense, I tell them the same. If I
vote against something of my Repub-
lican friends or Democrats, I explain to
them. It has nothing to do with poli-
tics; it is policy. Does it make sense?
Will it help the constituents of the
State of West Virginia? Will it make
my country stronger and better? That
is really what I care about. That is the
purpose of my being here.
For the life of me, I can’t figure out
how anyone who voted for this can ex-
plain it when they go back home, be-
cause we have given our power away.
Every time you do this, you continue
to erode the powers you have as a Sen-
ate by the Constitution of the United
States of America and by the Founding
Fathers who created this body. Now,
how we can do it in such a willing way
makes no sense. How do you look peo-
ple in the eye and say: I gave up my in-
dividual power to represent you. How
do I do that? I am not going to do it. I
am not going to do it, and I haven’t
done it, nor will I ever do it.
You can say it was because of ob-
struction. Well, if there is an obstruc-
tion, there is a way around obstruc-
tions. You drive around obstructions.
You have obstructions in your life
every day. You learn to work around
obstructions. It is basically by commu-
nicating. It is basically by sitting down
and looking at the other side, the other
point of view.
I have always said that I am not al-
ways right. I need help. But I am not
always wrong either. I have, hopefully,
some input, and I try to make that as
a balance as I approach these things.
And Republicans are—what they have
done today is basically the same. We
don’t have obstructions we can’t over-
come if we respect each other. You
can’t blame everybody for everything.
You can’t blame somebody else for
something you are unwilling to do. You
can’t blame somebody else if you don’t
have the patience to sit down and talk
through your problems and try to un-
derstand better. You can’t blame some-
body else if you are not willing to give
and take. That is what the whole proc-
ess is about if you are going to be suc-
cessful in life—anyone who has been
successful. It is not ‘‘my way or the
highway’’; it is ‘‘our way going down
the highway together.’’
This move is a betrayal of the people
we represent, and everyone in this body
is complicit. It is a shame that we are
going to go back and try to explain our
positions with the votes that were
made today. It is just a shame. It
should never have come to this. For
hundreds of years, we have managed to
overcome obstructions and preserve
our Founders’ vision for the Senate,
but for the last 6 years, Members on
both sides of this aisle have decided
that is no longer possible.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:45 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.023 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2223
April 3, 2019
This abdication of our power and re-
sponsibility is nothing more than
weakness in the face of partisanship.
This is truly tribal. What tribe do you
belong to? Do you belong to the Demo-
cratic tribe, or do you belong to the
Republican tribe? I am sorry, I belong
to the American tribe, and I am going
to stay right in the tribe I belong to,
and I am going to be loyal to the Amer-
ican tribe.
This abdication of our power and re-
sponsibility is truly, truly a weakness
in the face of partisanship, and my col-
leagues need to stand up to the leaders.
We have given too much power to the
leadership here.
I remember the day when people used
to talk about, oh, the committee chair-
man had so much power. They could
run a bill and make sure it got on the
floor and got voted on. Those days are
gone. There is always a reason why
something doesn’t go to the floor, even
if it goes through the committee proc-
ess. Something comes out of the com-
mittee unanimously, and it still
doesn’t come to the floor. Try to ex-
plain that one.
To protect the powers of the Sen-
ators as representatives for their
States and to protect the institution of
the Senate, that is not that hard, and
I know because I have done it. I have
voted against my colleagues on my side
of the aisle. I was up front, and I was
honest. I said: I am sorry; I can’t go
home and explain that. It doesn’t make
sense at all, and I am not voting for it.
If they want to get my vote, they are
going to have to sit down and say:
What would it take to get your vote?
And I would explain to them: You
have to adjust this or adjust this and
make sense.
It is fair to the minority, and if we
were in the majority, or vice versa, the
majority should be fair to us. If you
can work through that, you can make
it. You can make it on this side. If not,
it is going to be a miserable 6 years for
every Senator who just got elected, if
we don’t come back to reality.
I know I keep calling it an individual
right, but it really isn’t. It is a trust
passed down from the Senators who
preceded us. They had the will and
they had the determination to make
this place work, and we have given up
on that. This belongs to our constitu-
ents, the power we have here, and we
have no power to protect them now.
The solution to obstruction isn’t ru-
ining the Senate. It is outreach. It is
compromise. It is finding solutions
that make a bunch of people on the far
left and the far right very uncomfort-
able and mad sometimes. Until we are
willing to do that, the hard work of
this institution is going to get worse.
So it is not that we are fractured, we
are almost broken, and it was never in-
tended. I have never seen anything bro-
ken that we couldn’t fix. I hope we
come to our senses. I hope we act as
Americans. I hope we understand basi-
cally the whole thought process from
our Founding Fathers, who had the
great insight of having two bodies in a
bicameral, not a unicameral, branch
that was supposed to work to help each
other and protect us from ourselves.
Right now, we have become the worst
enemy of ourselves. I hope we change.
Thank you.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Ms. STABENOW. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Michigan.
HEALTHCARE
Ms. STABENOW. Madam President, I
have come to the floor many times,
and I come to the floor today to say
something straightforward. Healthcare
is personal, not political. Despite all
the debates, everything that has gone
on around healthcare, for every family
in Michigan and across the country and
for every one of us, healthcare is per-
sonal, not political.
If your child gets sick in the middle
of the night and needs to be taken to
the emergency room, you don’t care
who the doctor voted for in the last
Presidential election.
If you are diagnosed with cancer or a
chronic condition, you are more inter-
ested in receiving the care you need
than the ins and outs of the insurance
plan that provides that care.
If your mom or dad needs to move
into a nursing home, you want to make
sure they are happy and that they are
treated well, regardless of the specific
Medicaid reimbursement rate.
Healthcare is personal to each and
every one of us, not political, and it af-
fects each and every one of us, whether
we watch MSNBC, CNN, FOX News, or
don’t turn on the television.
That is why, when this administra-
tion and Republicans in Congress try
to take away people’s healthcare over
and over and over again, I take it per-
sonally. You know who else takes it
personally? The American people. Cer-
tainly, I know the people of Michigan
do.
Back in November, they sent a mes-
sage at the ballot box. Unfortunately,
the administration and Republicans in
Congress missed the message. They
could be working across the aisle right
now to expand access to care and im-
prove quality and reduce costs. This is
something I work to do all the time.
Instead, they are, once again, trying to
take away your healthcare.
If you don’t believe me, just take a
look at President Trump’s budget. This
administration wants to pay for a huge
tax giveaway for the wealthiest among
us by taking away people’s healthcare.
Let me say that again.
They are asking us to pay for a budg-
et-busting tax giveaway for the
wealthy by taking healthcare away
from people who depend on Medicare
and Medicaid. Many of us, when this
tax bill passed, said that when they
were creating almost $2 trillion in def-
icit, watch out because the next thing
will be a discussion to say: Oh. Oh my
gosh. We have a big deficit. We have to
cut Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Se-
curity, and the other things that di-
rectly affect people, with healthcare at
the top of the list.
So what happens? Well, the Trump
budget would cut $800 billion from
Medicare over the next 10 years. That
is taking away healthcare from our
seniors, people with disabilities. The
Trump budget would cut $1.5 trillion
from Medicaid over the next 10 years.
That is taking healthcare away from
half of all the babies born in America
who are covered by Medicaid—them
and their moms. That is taking
healthcare away from two in three sen-
iors who get their nursing home care
from Medicaid healthcare. That is tak-
ing away healthcare from everyone
who has benefited from expanding Med-
icaid, including low-income, minimum-
wage working people, working families,
including more than 650,000 people in
my State of Michigan covered by a
very successful program called Healthy
Michigan.
Ninety-seven percent of Michigan
children can see a doctor when they get
sick or hurt now because of what has
happened with Michigan, with Healthy
Michigan and other coverage, and the
number of people treated without in-
surance has dropped 50 percent, which
means instead of folks dropping into
the emergency room who can’t pay and
everybody else’s insurance rates go up
to pay for it, people now have their
own insurance, and those costs have
dropped by 50 percent—the number of
people walking in without insurance.
What has that meant for the State of
Michigan? Taxpayers had more than
$400 million back into the budget in the
State of Michigan last year because of
the savings because of Healthy Michi-
gan.
We should be building on this
progress. Instead, Republicans are,
once again, trying to take your
healthcare away.
Between 2010 and 2018, the Repub-
lican majority in Congress voted to re-
peal or weaken the Affordable Care Act
more than 70 times—70—with no re-
placement. Now the Trump administra-
tion has stepped in to help because
they weren’t successful in Congress. We
were able to stop that because people
rose up and said: My healthcare is per-
sonal not political. People from across
the country engaged and we were able
to stop it in Congress. So now the
Trump administration has stepped in
to do a number of things to sabotage
the Affordable Care Act.
Look at what has happened in the
last year. Last February, the Trump
administration announced it would
provide funding to States that want to
let insurance plans cover fewer serv-
ices, encouraging fewer services to be
covered.
Last April, they issued a rule that,
among other things, allowed insurers
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:45 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.024 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2224 April 3, 2019
to hike premiums 15 percent without
justification.
In June and August, they expanded
access to Association Health Plans and
what are called short-term plans,
which we also call junk health plans
because they are a lot cheaper, but
they don’t cover much, and people
don’t realize that until they get sick.
These plans don’t have to cover pre-
scription drugs or mental health or
maternity care.
By the way, as the person who led
that fight in the Senate Finance Com-
mittee, I can tell you that the vast ma-
jority of insurance plans prior to the
Affordable Care Act did not cover ma-
ternity care and prenatal care, which is
pretty basic as part of healthcare for
women. Remember when being a
woman was considered a preexisting
condition? That is what we meant.
These plans are bringing that back,
which means if you are a woman, you
have to pay more to be able to get
basic healthcare, and that is wrong. We
did away with that 10 years ago.
In July, the Trump administration
slashed funding for programs that help
people enroll in health insurance cov-
erage and began steering people toward
the junk plans. So instead of giving
people information through
healthcare.gov and encouraging people
to find out what would be the cheapest
plan that would be effective and cover
what they need, they made it harder to
sign up for comprehensive coverage and
pushed people toward these junk plans.
In October, the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services announced that
healthcare.gov would be shut down for
60 hours during open enrollment season
for ‘‘maintenance,’’ so you couldn’t
even get online to be able to sign up for
more affordable, comprehensive insur-
ance that actually would cover things
you and your family need.
In November, the Trump administra-
tion released information for States on
how they could use waivers to under-
mine consumer protections. Consumer
protections are things like not getting
dropped if you get sick. Prior to the Af-
fordable Care Act, so many times peo-
ple said to me: I have paid for insur-
ance all my life and never needed it. I
finally need it, and I got dropped after
I got sick. What do you mean it only
covers 1 day in the hospital or doesn’t
cover maternity care? What do you
mean the insurance company can cap
the number of cancer treatments I
need? Isn’t that up to my doctor?
Well, it is now, and it has been under
the Affordable Care Act. Instead, we
are in a situation where they are try-
ing to get States to waive consumer
protections and put decisions back in
the hands of insurance companies.
Thanks to all of this sabotage, it is
estimated that comprehensive health
insurance costs 16.6 percent more this
year than it otherwise would.
Madam President, I ask unanimous
consent to complete my statement,
which will be about 2 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Ms. STABENOW. Thank you very
much.
It is estimated that comprehensive
health insurance costs 16.6 percent
more this year than it otherwise would
because of all of this sabotage, up-
heaval, and chaos in the healthcare
markets.
In case those sabotage attempts were
too subtle, last week the Department
of Justice announced that it agrees—
the Trump administration now agrees
with the Federal judge in Texas who
said that the entire Affordable Care
Act must be struck down. There would
be no more coverage for preexisting
conditions, no more consumer protec-
tions, no more capacity to have your
child on your insurance until age 26, no
more capacity to be able to expand
what we are doing for minimum wage
workers, et cetera.
In other words, if they can’t take
away your health insurance through
the legislative process, they are trying
to do it now through the courts, which
also goes to what is happening now in
terms of changing the rules so they can
more quickly put judges through and
pack the courts with folks who will
agree with taking away people’s
healthcare.
What is the Republican alternative
to the ACA? Unfortunately, these folks
still don’t have one. Don’t worry.
President Trump now says that he is
going to have a ‘‘really great’’
healthcare plan after he is reelected in
2020. Just wait.
By the way, to emphasize the fact
that Senate Republicans support what
President Trump is doing, they passed
a budget resolution out of committee
last week through a partisan vote—
only Republican votes—that includes
repeal of the Affordable Care Act with
no replacement in place.
In the meantime, the Affordable Care
Act could be struck down by the
courts, and more than 20 million people
who gained health coverage through
the Affordable Care Act could be out of
luck.
Let me say, in conclusion, that just
this week I heard from one of those 20
million people. Lisa from Norton
Shores graduated with a marketing de-
gree in the middle of a recession and
worked a low-wage job at the local hos-
pital for 8 years. When a part-time,
temporary job opened up at a local
marketing agency, the Affordable Care
Act allowed Lisa to take the job and
get the experience she needed for a ca-
reer in her field. She was able to get
healthcare separately from her job.
That job led to another marketing job
with a local company—this one with
benefits.
A few years later, the original mar-
keting agency offered Lisa a full-time
job. Once again, the ACA allowed her
to take it. Lisa wrote this:
It was only through the Affordable Care
Act that I have been able to pull myself up
to be a contributing member of society. It
has allowed me to rise to my capabilities.
She added that if the ACA is over-
turned, ‘‘I will have to leave this job
for a position that includes health in-
surance. It would kill this awesome
small business I work for. . . . This will
be a top priority for me when I vote in
2020.’’
Lisa and millions of other people are
sending a message. The only question
is, Are folks listening?
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
KESSLER NOMINATION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. All time
has expired.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Kessler nomi-
nation?
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
Ms. COLLINS. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the man-
datory quorum call be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
Pursuant to rule XXII, the Chair lays
before the Senate the pending cloture
motion, which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Roy Kalman Altman, of Florida, to
be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Florida.
Mitch McConnell, Johnny Isakson, Roger
F. Wicker, Chuck Grassley, John Booz-
man, John Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Shel-
ley Moore Capito, Pat Roberts, Roy
Blunt, Deb Fischer, David Perdue,
Todd Young, John Thune, Rick Scott,
Mike Rounds, Marco Rubio.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call is waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Roy Kalman Altman, of Florida, to
be the United States District Judge for
the Southern District of Florida, shall
be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS) is
necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 66,
nays 33, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 60 Ex.]
YEAS—66
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cardin
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.025 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2225
April 3, 2019
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Warner
Wicker
Young
NAYS—33
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Carper
Casey
Coons
Gillibrand
Heinrich
Hirono
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Peters
Reed
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Udall
Van Hollen
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—1
Harris
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 66, the nays are 33.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Roy Kalman Altman, of Flor-
ida, to be United States District Judge
for the Southern District of Florida.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
understand the majority is considering
another change to how judicial nomi-
nees are considered.
My understanding is the majority
leader may move to break the rules of
the Senate and cut the time that Sen-
ators can debate nominees after clo-
ture is invoked from 30 hours to 2
hours.
Just yesterday, the Senate rejected
this change. The Lankford resolution
was voted on and did not receive 60
votes, let alone the 67 votes required to
change the rules.
The resolution would also have
changed postcloture debate time on
circuit court and Supreme Court nomi-
nees from 30 hours total to 30 hours di-
vided between the majority and minor-
ity leaders or their designees. This
means debate on a Supreme Court
nomination could be limited to only 15
total hours of debate.
Despite bipartisan opposition to the
Lankford resolution, the majority is
now considering limiting debate time
by breaking longstanding rules of the
Senate.
Changing the rules is not only unnec-
essary, but also is dangerous, espe-
cially when we are talking about life-
time appointments. Further, given this
administration’s failure to properly vet
its own nominees, the Senate should
not restrict critical vetting and due
diligence.
There is simply no need to limit de-
bate on President Trump’s judicial
nominees. In fact, President Trump’s
judicial nominees have been confirmed
at a record pace.
Through his first 2 years in office,
President Trump had more circuit
court nominees confirmed than any
other President had at the same point
in their tenure—30 total. That is on top
of two Supreme Court Justices and 53
district court judges.
Further, the current administra-
tion’s circuit court nominees have been
confirmed nearly twice as fast as Presi-
dent Obama’s, 256 days for President
Obama’s nominees versus 139 days for
President Trump’s nominees.
The rules change is also unnecessary
because Senate Democrats are in no
way obstructing confirmations. Senate
Democrats have not required cloture
votes on more than half of President
Trump’s district court nominees.
On average, the Senate has used only
3 hours of floor time for debate on
President Trump’s district court nomi-
nees.
In addition, a higher percentage of
President Trump’s district court nomi-
nees have been confirmed by voice vote
as compared to President Obama’s dis-
trict court nominees, 49 percent versus
35 percent. In other words, Senate
Democrats have not required the ma-
jority to hold rollcall votes on nearly
half of President Trump’s nominees to
the Federal district courts.
Finally, Democrats have worked with
the Trump administration to identify
qualified judicial nominees.
For example, Delaware’s two Demo-
cratic Senators, Senators CARPER and
COONS, worked with the White House to
identify two qualified nominees to be
judges on the U.S. District Court for
the District of Delaware.
Senators DURBIN and DUCKWORTH of
Illinois worked with this administra-
tion to identify two highly qualified
nominees to be judges on the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Cir-
cuit. Both of those nominees were con-
firmed unanimously.
In addition, we are right now in
postcloture time on the nomination of
Roy Altman to the Southern District
of Florida. Several Democrats voted
for Mr. Altman in committee, and
Democrats have not demanded a full 30
hours of debate time on Mr. Altman’s
nomination.
Despite all of this, Republicans are
nevertheless breaking the rules and
pushing the Senate closer to a body
that is governed simply by the whim of
the majority.
All of this leads to an unmistakable
conclusion—shortening debate time is
unnecessary. It is a response to a non-
existent problem, and it is simply a
power grab meant to stack the courts
at an even faster rate.
It is also important to stress why it
is so dangerous to allow the Trump ad-
ministration to stack the courts in this
way, without adequate debate time.
We have seen this administration fill
lifetime positions with young, inexpe-
rienced nominees who are often outside
the legal mainstream. We have seen
them try to do this without properly
vetting those same nominees, as in the
case of Brett Talley, who failed to dis-
close to the Judiciary Committee near-
ly 15,000 online comments, including
one in which he defended the founder of
the KKK.
The Senate needs sufficient time to
scrutinize the records of these nomi-
nees—nominees like Matthew
Kacsmaryk and Patrick Wyrick, who
have led efforts to undermine the Af-
fordable Care Act; nominees like Brian
Buescher, who has argued that States
should go after women’s reproductive
rights ‘‘bit by bit’’; and nominees like
Wendy Vitter, who refused to acknowl-
edge that Brown v. Board of Education
was correctly decided and who falsely
claimed there is a connection between
the use of contraceptive pills and the
incidence of cancer.
Two hours is simply not enough time
to scrutinize these nominees’ records,
especially when so many of this admin-
istration’s judicial nominees fail to
disclose materials to the Judiciary
Committee.
In conclusion, all Senators, and not
just those on the Judiciary Committee,
need adequate time to review the
records of these judicial nominees,
who, if confirmed, will serve for life.
All Senators need adequate time to
make an informed decision about
whether these nominees are qualified
to decide the fate of thousands of peo-
ple’s lives. After all, the American peo-
ple deserve to know that, if they find
themselves in a Federal court, they
will have an impartial, qualified, main-
stream jurist who has earned the right
to sit on the bench.
This decision to break the rules and
reduce debate time on judicial nomi-
nees not only harms the institution of
the Senate, but also harms the Federal
judiciary.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
POINT OF ORDER
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
raise a point of order that the
postcloture time under rule XXII for
all judicial nominations, other than
circuit courts or Supreme Court of the
United States, is 2 hours.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, the point of order is not sus-
tained.
APPEALING RULING OF THE CHAIR
Mr. MCCONNELL. I appeal the ruling
of the Chair and ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The question is, Shall the decision of
the Chair stand as the judgment of the
Senate?
The yeas and nays have been ordered.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS) is
necessarily absent.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:33 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP6.004 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2226 April 3, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 48,
nays 51, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 61 Ex.]
YEAS—48
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NAYS—51
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NOT VOTING—1
Harris
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate overrides the decision of the Chair.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
S. 972
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, ear-
lier this week I introduced the bipar-
tisan Retirement Enhancement and
Savings Act of 2019, and the acronym
for that is RESA, or R-E-S-A.
I am pleased to be joined by my col-
league, Ranking Member WYDEN of the
Finance Committee, in introducing
this very important piece of legisla-
tion. The workplace retirement system
provides an effective way for employ-
ees to save for retirement. Not all
workers have access to retirement
plans, and some workers who have ac-
cess to a plan don’t always participate.
The committee felt that we needed to
do more to encourage and facilitate re-
tirement savings. That is why we are
providing new incentives for employers
to adopt retirement plans. The bill also
helps to reduce costs of operating these
plans and creates new provisions to en-
courage workers to plan and to save for
retirement.
This bill has been a long time in the
making. Work on it actually began
shortly after the passage of the Pen-
sion Protection Act of 2006. So when I
say a long time, if it actually started
back there at that time, that is 13
years ago.
Over several Congresses, the Finance
Committee has held hearings on the re-
tirement system and reviewed a num-
ber of proposals to improve the system.
Many ideas were put forward. We ex-
amined each of them carefully, includ-
ing through the work of the Finance
Committee’s Tax Reform Working
Group on Savings and Investment,
which did most of its work during the
year 2015.
The resulting proposals were brought
together to form this bill that we call
RESA. It was unanimously approved by
the Finance Committee in 2016. In the
last Congress, many of us worked
closely with former Senator Hatch, and
chairman at that time, to advance this
package. We came very close to an
agreement last December, but, as a lot
of times happens at the end of the year,
it fell short due to politics and the
process at that time. Passage of this
important bill remains a top priority
for me. I have continued working close-
ly with Senator WYDEN, the ranking
Democrat, other committee members,
and even colleagues in the House to
maintain the momentum from the end
of last year so that improvements in
this bill can be signed into law without
further delay.
The RESA bill would reform our re-
tirement savings laws in several impor-
tant areas. For example, it would im-
prove on an existing type of plan called
a multiple employer plan, or as we say
in finance, MEP. The bill would expand
these plans so that employers can join
together to sponsor a single retirement
plan for their workers. These open
MEPs would make it far more feasible
for businesses of all sizes, and espe-
cially small businesses, to offer retire-
ment plans by harnessing economies of
scale and reducing unnecessary admin-
istrative burdens on employers.
More importantly, these open MEPs
would open the door for millions of
Americans to save for retirement.
Speaking of small businesses, the bill
includes provisions designed to make it
easier and more cost-effective for
smaller employers to sponsor a retire-
ment plan. Small businesses, farms,
and ranches, are, of course, vital to our
economy. We need to encourage a level
playing field so that workers and small
businesses throughout our country
have equal access to retirement plans
as workers at Fortune 500 companies
have.
RESA also would create a new fidu-
ciary safe harbor for employers that
allow employees to invest in lifetime-
income arrangements like annuities. In
addition, the bill would expand the
portability of retirement plan assets,
including those annuities. That would
allow workers, then, to keep their re-
tirement savings when they change
jobs throughout their career.
This bill encourages employers to
provide the kinds of tools and flexi-
bility that employees need to plan for
a financially secure retirement. RESA
also would help employees to add to
their retirement savings each year
through automatic increases in con-
tributions to 401(k) plans. Also, to help
workers plan better for retirement, the
legislation would require employers to
provide an estimate of how much the
employee’s account would provide dur-
ing retirement if the employee in-
vested the balance in an annuity.
All of this is intended to help individ-
uals get on the path of saving for a se-
cure retirement during their working
years, but it is also with an eye toward
making sure that their savings will
last once they retire. I should also note
that this bill is paid for.
This is the pay-for. The main offset-
ting provision involves an option under
current law for a person to pass along
his or her IRA or 401(k) account to a
family member or other beneficiary.
Under current law, the recipient of
that account can keep the inherited
funds in the tax-deferred account and
save for their own retirement if they
take out a required minimum amount
each year. That is often referred to as
a ‘‘stretch IRA.’’
The bill maintains this savings op-
tion for people who inherit an IRA or
retirement account, but it places a
limit on how large an account can be
inherited on a tax-protected basis. This
is a commonsense approach to encour-
age the next generation to save for re-
tirement while ensuring that the
changes in this bill are fiscally respon-
sible.
Retirement security is a very impor-
tant topic that is already getting a
great deal of attention this year. The
House Ways and Means Committee con-
sidered a retirement savings bill yes-
terday that is built on the provisions
included in RESA, and I look forward
to working with Chairman NEAL of the
House Ways and Means Committee to
reconcile our bills and to get a final
package to the President’s desk.
So, in closing, I want to sum by
stressing that increasing long-term
savings in America is critically impor-
tant. We know that there are ways that
we can improve our private retirement
system to make it easier for Americans
to save. The reforms in this bill rep-
resent a very important step forward in
improving Americans’ retirement secu-
rity.
I know that there are other Members
with additional ideas for improving re-
tirement security. I want those Mem-
bers to know that regardless of this
bill’s passing, we are ready to consider
those proposals and advancing those
that will build on RESA and will help
to attain the goal of ensuring that all
Americans achieve a security retire-
ment.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing rule XXII, the confirmation
vote on the Altman nomination occur
at 11:45 a.m. on Thursday, April 4.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The senior Senator from North Da-
kota.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP6.005 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2227
April 3, 2019
S. RES. 50
Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I rise to
discuss why we needed to reform the
confirmation process. It was absolutely
necessary to ensure that the Senate is
able to approve the President’s nomi-
nees in a timely manner.
Delays and obstruction have pre-
vented qualified nominees from being
confirmed. In fact, at the pace the Sen-
ate has been going, it would take more
than 5 years to process the remaining
nominees. Clearly, the process isn’t
working.
In the Senate, we take our advice and
consent role very seriously. We all
want to ensure that we have capable
and qualified individuals serving in im-
portant positions. Delays in the con-
firmation process often have nothing
to do with the qualifications of the
candidate.
These nominees have been vetted and
approved by the appropriate com-
mittee, only to spend weeks or months
waiting to be considered by the full
Senate. Currently, there are more than
100 nominees awaiting confirmation on
the Senate calendar. That is because
our colleagues on the other side of the
aisle have been using the filibuster to
delay all of the nominees—even rou-
tine, highly qualified nominees.
In past administrations, a cloture
vote was only required for high-level or
controversial nominations that re-
quired additional deliberation or de-
bate. Under President Trump, our col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
have required cloture on hundreds of
nominees, which means instead of ap-
proving these nominations in a timely
manner, it often takes 3 days on the
Senate floor before a final vote is
taken. That is because, following a
vote to invoke cloture, there is an ad-
ditional 30 hours of floor debate after
an intervening day.
During the first 2 years of the pre-
vious 3 Presidencies, there were a total
of 24 cloture votes. During the first 2
years of President Trump’s Presidency,
the Senate forced a cloture vote on 128
nominations. Think about that—24 for
the prior 3 Presidents and 128 cloture
votes on President Trump’s nomina-
tions. For President Obama, during his
first 2 years—to compare President
Trump to President Obama’s first 2
years—12 for Obama. There were 12 for
President Obama and 128 for President
Trump.
So let me provide another example.
During the 8 years of the Obama ad-
ministration, the Senate confirmed 272
district court judges. Since President
Trump has been elected, the Senate has
confirmed 53 district judges—272 to 53
district court judges. At that pace,
only 195 district court judges would be
approved over a full 8-year period, far
less than the 272 during the Obama ad-
ministration.
These delays impact qualified indi-
viduals across the Nation. For exam-
ple, Peter Welte, the nominee to be the
U.S. district court judge for the Dis-
trict of North Dakota, was nominated
by President Trump more than 77 days
ago. It has been about 230 days since
Drew Wrigley, nominee to be U.S. at-
torney for the District of North Dakota
was originally reported by President
Trump—230 days. These are qualified
nominees from my home State of
North Dakota and the Presiding Offi-
cer’s home State of North Dakota who
have been approved by the Senate Judi-
ciary Committee with bipartisan sup-
port. Yet both are still waiting for con-
firmation by the U.S. Senate. They
need to be out there doing their job.
They need to get confirmed.
That is why we voted today to reduce
debate from 30 hours to 2 hours for
nominees like district court judges as
well as many executive branch nomi-
nees, while retaining the 30 hours of de-
bate for high-level nominees—for cir-
cuit court judges, Supreme Court
judges, and for Cabinet positions. We
did not change the confirmation for
nominees to the highest levels of gov-
ernment, including the Supreme Court,
circuit court, and for Cabinet-level of-
ficials.
This reform does streamline the proc-
ess for other important nominees who
have languished on the Senate calendar
for far too long. This is a commonsense
reform to ensure that there is still de-
bate on nominees, while making the
process more efficient and effective so
we can get qualified nominees con-
firmed and working for the American
people, as is our job.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
NOMINATION OF MARK ANTHONY CALABRIA
Mr. BROWN. Mr. President, as you
know and as we know, our Nation is
facing an affordable housing crisis.
Right now, we are considering the
nomination of someone who will have
the power to do something about it—
Mark Calabria, the President’s nomi-
nee to spend the next half decade head-
ing the Federal Housing Finance Agen-
cy. He would be responsible for over-
seeing a $6.5 trillion housing market
that provides homes for millions of
American families, and $6.5 trillion is
$6.5 thousand billion; that is how big a
trillion is. He would oversee a $6.5 tril-
lion housing market that provides
homes for millions of families.
Far too many Americans are left be-
hind in our housing policy. Think
about this. One-third of all households
spend more than 30 percent of their in-
come on housing. A number that is
even more frightening is that one-quar-
ter of American renters spend at least
half their income on housing.
One-quarter of American renters
spend half of their income on housing.
What does that mean?
That is not something people around
here, frankly, think about very much.
If you are a Senator, if you are a Con-
gressman, if you are some of the highly
paid staff people, and many aren’t, but
if you are the chief of staff or legisla-
tive director or if you are a staff direc-
tor, you don’t think about those
things.
If you do what Lincoln used to do and
say ‘‘I need to go out and get my pub-
lic-opinion baths’’ and if you see how
people live and you see that somebody
is paying half their income in rent, and
their car breaks down and they don’t
have $600 to fix their car, what happens
is they can’t pay their rent. Then, if
something else happens and they get
evicted, their whole life turns upside
down. They have to give away their
pet, no matter what their kids think.
They have to move out of that apart-
ment. They have to send their children
to a different school. They often have
to live in the basement of a neighbor’s
or a cousin’s home. They end up put-
ting their things in storage and losing
them.
I don’t think we understand what the
housing crisis means to, literally, tens
of millions of Americans. It is not just
in the city, as the Presiding Officer
knows. It is in rural areas. His State is
pretty rural. Big parts of my State are
pretty rural. It is not just East Cleve-
land or Over-the-Rhine in Cincinnati.
It is Appalachia, small towns, and
small cities like Zanesville, OH, and
Mansfield, OH—places where you can’t
pay the rent or you get your home
foreclosed and you lose your home; you
get thrown out of your home, and your
whole life turns upside down. That is
why this is so important.
We are not only talking about rent-
ing but also about homeownership too.
The homeownership rate among Afri-
can Americans is at the same dismal
level it was before we had laws in place
to protect against discrimination.
Those laws are barely being enforced.
The Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development seems to have little in-
terest in enforcing housing discrimina-
tion laws. The Senate Banking Com-
mittee majority seems to have little
interest in enforcing anti-discrimina-
tion laws. Hispanic households are
hardly better off than African-Amer-
ican households. These are serious
issues we have to solve.
As we face this crisis, Mark Calabria,
the President’s nominee for FHFA will
be on the frontlines. He will set poli-
cies that determine how many families
can afford to buy a home and how
much they pay. He will have the power
to promote or discourage building af-
fordable apartments to serve the low-
est income renters. It is not just that
people’s wages are stagnant in the
Trump economy. Wages are flat. It is
not just that. As prices go up, there
simply isn’t enough housing, so rental
units are getting more and more expen-
sive.
If your wages are flat, no matter how
hard you work—you might have two
jobs, a job making $9 and a job making
$14, but it is not enough if your rent
keeps going up, as it does in far too
many cases.
The record shows that Dr. Calabria is
exactly the wrong person for this job.
He actually questioned the need for the
30-year fixed-rate mortgage. Think
about that. That is the primary tool
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.042 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2228 April 3, 2019
families use to afford homes and build
wealth. I am guessing that almost
every one of my colleagues, except
those born extraordinarily rich—I am
guessing that for most of us in this
body, most people watching this, most
of our staffs, and most Americans who
own homes, especially the first home
they bought had a 25- or 30-year fixed
mortgage. Before people owned homes
much in this country, a century ago,
they had to pay off their home in 3 or
4 or 5 years, typically. Almost nobody
can do that. That is why we have the
30-year fixed-rate mortgage.
Dr. Calabria wonders whether we
need the 30-year mortgage at all. Presi-
dent Trump clearly doesn’t know.
President Trump knows how to build
big apartment buildings and borrow
money from Deutsche Bank because no
reputable bank in the United States
will lend to him. But he doesn’t know
what it is like to pay off a mortgage
and for people who think in terms of,
‘‘How am I going to pay off my mort-
gage?’’ He doesn’t understand what the
importance of a 30-year mortgage is.
Presumably, that is why President
Trump picked somebody like Dr.
Calabria to be in charge of housing.
Dr. Calabria has called for repealing
the affordable housing goals. One-third
of households are spending more than
one-third of their income on housing,
and it is worse for renters. You would
think making housing affordable would
be one of Dr. Calabria’s top priorities,
but he doesn’t think we need the cur-
rent affordable housing goals. He told
Congress that Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac, which he would be in charge of,
should be eliminated. He would be the
one overseeing a housing finance sys-
tem that has helped more than 28 mil-
lion American families become home-
owners. He has questioned the need for
30-year fixed-rate mortgages. He has
called for the end of the entities he
would oversee that contribute to this
housing market.
It is pretty clear—over his years of
writing—whose side he is on. During
the financial crisis, when Wall Street
wrecked the economy and American
communities were left to clean up the
mess, Dr. Calabria blamed homeowners
for this. He called homeowners who
were underwater on their mortgage
‘‘deadbeats.’’ Think about that. The
guy who is going to oversee the whole
housing agency market for the U.S.
Government said that the people who
were underwater—what does under-
water mean? Underwater means that
you have been paying your mortgage,
but because of a drop in the economy
or in your community, what you owe is
more than what the house is worth.
The house becomes devalued because of
the neighborhood, because of other
foreclosures, because of other people
being evicted, and your home is worth
less than what you owe the bank for
your mortgage. That is called under-
water. Dr. Calabria called those people
deadbeats. Those people probably work
every bit as hard as Dr. Calabria does—
not to make it personal—or as hard as
most of us in the Senate work. These
are people working hard to try to get
ahead. Because of circumstances in
this global economy where wages are
flat, where the rich are getting richer,
where most of America is treading
water, Dr. Calabria calls these people
deadbeats for something they didn’t
even do. Anybody who doesn’t think
families will do everything they pos-
sibly can to stay in their homes has
clearly never met those who have actu-
ally had their homes foreclosed on. I
have met those families.
My wife, Connie, and I live in ZIP
Code 44105 in Cleveland, OH. That
means nothing to anybody who is lis-
tening, but the ZIP Code in which we
lived in the first half of 2007 had more
foreclosures than had any ZIP Code in
the United States. We live in a develop-
ment of about 200 homes that are
priced at $100,000 to $200,000 to $250,000,
but not far away, in the rest of this ZIP
Code, there is home, after home, after
home, after home that has been fore-
closed on. These homes are generally
old. They are generally not in good
shape. They generally have very toxic
levels of lead that poison children in
their central nervous systems.
He is saying that these people are
deadbeats—those who are working
hard. They lost their jobs. That is the
main reason most of them couldn’t
keep up with their mortgages. These
families aren’t deadbeats. They work
hard. They work a lot harder than the
Wall Street traders—that is t-r-a-d-e-r-
s, perhaps—who are taking big risks
with other people’s money.
Some of Ohio’s families were laid off,
and they tried to find new jobs. They
were making $22 an hour, and they
found new jobs at $14 an hour. They
work just as hard, maybe harder, but
the new jobs don’t pay as much. Some
couldn’t find new jobs because the
economy was in a free fall. In 2010, one
in five homeowners in Ohio was under-
water in his mortgage. Yet he calls
them deadbeats? One out of five people
is a deadbeat because the worth of his
home dropped, and he couldn’t keep up
with his mortgage?
At that time, Ohio had lost 375,000
jobs. In that year, Dr. Calabria criti-
cized one of the most important tools
that States like Ohio had in trying to
help homeowners—the Hardest Hit
Fund. The Hardest Hit Fund helps
States like Ohio and Indiana and Ari-
zona and Florida. It helps us weather a
crisis. The housing markets and the
workers in those States were dev-
astated. The Hardest Hit Fund helped
more than 25,000 struggling home-
owners. It was not enough because the
effort from the Senate was not enough,
but it helped in the tearing down of
thousands of plighted homes; it helped
to make neighborhoods safer; and it
helped them to recover.
Dr. Calabria said the Hardest Hit
Fund was just subsidizing States be-
cause their housing markets were get-
ting more affordable. What kind of per-
son thinks this way? What kind of per-
son says these things? What kind of
person is so hardhearted that he or she
would possibly take these positions if
he or she knows any of these people?
Maybe he needs to go out and get to
know some of these people.
We asked about his solution. He said
we should just let prices fall. He would
sit back and let homeowners suffer and
communities suffer because of Wall
Street’s greed. This is the man the
President of the United States and, ap-
parently, the majority leader in the
Senate—down the hall—want to lead in
the overseeing of the housing finance
in this country.
In more than 100 blog posts, articles,
and papers, Dr. Calabria made his
views clear. He said the goal of housing
reform should actually be to shrink our
mortgage market, that we should
eliminate the GSEs and the Federal
Housing Administration. My colleagues
who plan to support his nomination
today or tomorrow or whenever the
vote comes should not act surprised if
he raises costs for borrowers, if he
makes it more difficult to develop af-
fordable housing, or if he cuts off ac-
cess to homeownership for American
families. That is exactly what he has
advocated for in his entire career.
This is a critical job. It is why nomi-
nees like him should be debated. Amer-
icans should have the chance to make
their voices heard on a nominee like
him, who can make it harder for them
to buy homes.
My colleague down the hall is Sen-
ator MCCONNELL. He has the office 100
feet or so down the hall in which you
see high-powered, expensive, suited,
well-compensated lobbyists going in
and out all day, streaming in and out.
They are writing tax bills, fighting for
the oil companies, enriching the phar-
maceutical companies, and all of the
kinds of things that lobbyists down the
hall do who, I was going to say, work
for Senator MCCONNELL. They don’t ac-
tually work for Senator MCCONNELL,
but they help Senator MCCONNELL with
part of what his political organization
is. As a result, Senator MCCONNELL, in
order to help these special interests, is
changing the Senate rules.
It is not enough that Senator MCCON-
NELL blocked a Supreme Court Justice
for over a year. It is not enough that
Senator MCCONNELL supports all of the
dark money in politics or that billion-
aires can put money into political cam-
paigns and nobody knows exactly
where the money comes from. It is not
enough that the Supreme Court is now
controlled by the corporate elite in
this country. It is not enough that the
Senate is controlled by the corporate
elite. It is not enough that the White
House looks like a retreat for Wall
Street executives except on the day it
looks like a retreat for oil company ex-
ecutives, except on the day it looks
like a retreat for big drug companies.
That is not enough for Senator MCCON-
NELL. So what is he going to do? He is
going to change the rules. He is going
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.043 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2229
April 3, 2019
to give less time to debate nominees
who will have immense power over peo-
ple’s lives.
We talk about judges who serve life-
time appointments. We talk about the
heads of Agencies, like of the Con-
sumer Financial Protection Bureau,
who have the power to hold corpora-
tions accountable if they use that
power. Of course, we are talking about
Dr. Calabria, who is supposed to make
the housing market work for all Amer-
icans, yet who isn’t sure we need the
30-year mortgage. Think about that.
We shouldn’t be rushing these people
through. We need time for the people
we serve to make their voices heard. I
would hope my colleagues would agree
that these nominees deserve thoughtful
consideration; they deserve debates;
they deserve somebody who will defend
them to come to the Senate floor. Let
my fellow Republicans from the Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs Com-
mittee—people with whom I get along
well and personally like—make the
case for Dr. Calabria. Let them answer
why he is not for the 30-year fixed
mortgage, why he calls people who are
underwater in their mortgages dead-
beats. Why is that?
I would hope my colleagues would
come to this floor and debate. I would
hope that Senator MCCONNELL would
allow enough time for us to debate. I
would hope my colleagues would reject
Dr. Calabria’s nomination and tell the
President to send us a new nominee
who will take the job at the FHFA seri-
ously and make it easier, not harder,
for Americans to afford housing.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session for a pe-
riod of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak for up to 10
minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO SEDAT ACTON
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
today it is my privilege to pay tribute
to a Louisville, KY, legend, who is sim-
ply known as the Handstand Man. Like
so many other University of Louisville
Cardinals fans, I have vivid memories
of cheering on our men’s basketball
team at Freedom Hall. During high-
profile games, when the tension
reached its peak, the eyes of every Car-
dinal would look upward gazing upon
the gymnastic feats of Sedat Acton.
When the team and the crowd most
needed his particular form of inspira-
tion, Sedat would leave his seat and
head toward a railing on the second
level. As the officials blew their whis-
tles for a timeout, Sedat would lift his
body off the ground into an impressive
handstand, dozens of feet above the
arena’s floor. Then, as the fans
cheered, he would stretch out his legs
under his torso into an L.
For so many Cardinals fans, Sedat’s
iconic handstand became an essential
part of the basketball game experience,
but for this fan in particular, his story
holds even greater significance.
Like me, Sedat contracted polio at
an early age. As a child in Turkey, he
endured bullying because of the dis-
ease’s lasting effects. Sedat would walk
the beaches and watch groups of acro-
bats. He was inspired by their skills
and became determined to use gym-
nastics to gain his own strength, fend
off bullies, and prove he had defeated
the terrible disease.
Under the caring and watchful eye of
my mother, I was able to eventually
get back on my feet. By practicing the
gymnastics exercises he saw on the
beach, Sedat overcame the disease as
well. Then, as a teenager, he joined a
professional acrobatics club in Switzer-
land. Sedat performed around Europe
for years and showcased his tremen-
dous strength.
In his early 20s, Sedat came to Louis-
ville to live with his sister. Joining a
local gymnastics squad at the YMCA
on 3rd and Broadway, they performed
with the cheerleaders at halftime dur-
ing UofL men’s basketball games. Over
the years, Sedat could be found per-
forming during several Cardinals’ bas-
ketball and football games and even for
the Kentucky Colonels.
Around 1980, he began a new type of
act. This time, he was in the stands,
where he earned the title of Handstand
Man. His daring stunt provoked shocks
and cheers from those below as he re-
newed the crowd’s enthusiasm and in-
spired the players.
Over the next 30 years, Sedat’s hand-
stands became a regular part of Car-
dinals’ basketball. I remember attend-
ing many of those games, and right
when we needed it most, we would look
to the rafters to see Sedat. He provided
a much-needed thrill, helping cheer on
the Cards during important games, and
eventually to win conference tour-
naments and even the NCAA national
championship.
Sedat’s last performance at a UofL
game was in 2009, but his legendary
status among the people of Louisville
remains. A local celebrity, Sedat is fre-
quently recognized for his years of pas-
sion for the Cardinals. Now at the age
of 74, he remains as dedicated a fan as
ever.
Last year, Sedat and his family cele-
brated the 50th anniversary of his ar-
rival in the United States. He speaks
with such pride for the blessings of this
great country and for the opportunities
he has received here. One of Sedat’s
prized possessions is a decades-old
American flag. Throughout the years,
he turned down many opportunities to
leave Kentucky because he loves the
city of Louisville, its people, and is so
proud to call it home.
It wasn’t that long ago that polio
represented a real crisis. Through the
concentrated efforts of many, the num-
ber of polio cases worldwide has plum-
meted dramatically. Thankfully, we
are close to eliminating this disease for
good.
I am grateful for the chance to honor
Sedat’s remarkable life today, With his
wife of 40 years, Teresa, their three
children, and their growing family,
Sedat is fulfilling the American dream.
As the Louisville Cardinals look for-
ward to the beginning of the next bas-
ketball season, I know my Senate col-
leagues will join me in congratulating
Sedat Acton on his lifetime of accom-
plishments.
f
COLORADO RIVER DROUGHT CON-
TINGENCY PLAN AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent to enter into a
colloquy with my colleagues from the
Colorado River Basin and with Senator
MANCHIN, the ranking member on the
Energy and Natural Resources Com-
mittee, regarding the Colorado River
Drought Contingency Plan Authoriza-
tion Act.
I am pleased that we are considering
this bill so quickly on the Senate floor.
We need to act now as the historic
drought conditions in the basin are a
real threat to the water supply of 40
million people and 5.5 million acres of
farmland.
As the chairman of the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources, I think
it is important that we spend some
time clarifying the intent behind this
bill. We started last month with an
oversight hearing in the Water and
Power Subcommittee to examine the
Colorado River Drought Contingency
Plan, which was chaired by my col-
league, the Senator from Arizona, Ms.
MCSALLY.
We also need to understand what the
legislation that we are passing today
does and does not do. As I read it, the
measure directs the Secretary of the
Interior to implement the Drought
Contingency Plan agreements upon
their execution by the seven basin
States. The 2007 final environmental
impact statement on Colorado River
Interim Guidelines for Lower Basin
Shortages and Coordinated Operations
for Lake Powell and Lake Mead en-
ables the Secretary to do so imme-
diately as this document covers all of
the Federal actions contemplated in
the agreements.
I ask Senator MCSALLY, is that the
correct reading of the bill?
Ms. MCSALLY. I thank Chairman
MURKOWSKI. Yes, the Senator is exactly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.044 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2230 April 3, 2019
right. The Colorado River Drought
Contingency Plan, or DCP, consists of
the Agreement Concerning Colorado
River Drought Contingency Manage-
ment and Operations and additional
agreements that appear as attach-
ments Al, A2, and B to that agreement.
It is an emergency response to 19 years
of severe drought and is designed to get
us to 2026 without a serious crisis. In
the lower basin, this will be done by in-
creasing the contributions and pro-
viding incentives to leave water
banked in Lake Mead as intentionally
created surplus, among other things.
My bill reflects the urgency of the situ-
ation through its directive that the
Secretary of the Interior act without
delay to sign the agreements upon exe-
cution by the seven Colorado River
Basin States.
As Chairman MURKOWSKI mentioned,
it is expected that the Secretary will
sign these agreements without delay
since the actions to be undertaken are
within the analyses and range of ef-
fects reviewed in the environmental
documents prepared pursuant to the
Endangered Species Act, ESA, and in
the 2007 final environmental impact
statement, EIS, on Colorado River In-
terim Guidelines for Lower Basin
Shortages and Coordinated Operations
for Lake Powell and Lake Mead; and
the EISs and ESA documents prepared
for operation of the Colorado River
Storage Project Act initial storage
unit reservoirs. Additional environ-
mental compliance is only applicable
should Federal actions be undertaken
that are outside the range of effects
analyzed in those documents or the ap-
plicable records of decision.
I ask Senator CORTEZ MASTO, does
she agree with this characterization of
our bill?
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. I thank my col-
league from Arizona. I agree with her
assessment. I would also add that this
legislation was developed to ensure
water conservation activities in the
Colorado River Basin are able to begin
in 2019 and be built into the planning of
operations for 2020. For this to happen,
there can be no delay between execu-
tion of the DCP by the States and the
signing and implementation by the
Secretary of the Interior.
I ask Senator GARDNER, is this also
his understanding from the upper basin
perspective?
Mr. GARDNER. Yes, the statements
Senator CORTEZ MASTO and Senator
MCSALLY have made regarding the ex-
isting environmental compliance docu-
ments and actions contemplated in the
DCP agreements and the Secretary’s
expected immediate implementation of
those agreements once acted upon by
the basin states are consistent with my
understanding.
This legislation is an important step-
pingstone to helping assure the long-
term sustainability of the Colorado
River. It enables the seven Colorado
River Basin States to take advantage
of flexible water management tools
they have created under the Upper and
Lower Basin Drought Contingency
Plans to address variable water supply
conditions in the face of an almost
two-decades-long drought that has no
end in sight.
The Upper Basin Drought Contin-
gency Plan involves planning for how
to move water from the Initial Units of
the Colorado River Storage Project
Act, otherwise known as the CRSP Ini-
tial Units, to protect critical ele-
vations at Lake Powell and subse-
quently recover storage at the Units. It
also provides a mechanism for the
upper basin to conserve water to help
assure continued compliance with the
Colorado River Compact which will im-
prove the resiliency of the entire Colo-
rado River System. In the Upper Basin
DCP, the ‘‘applicable Colorado River
System reservoirs’’ include and are
limited to the Initial Units of the Colo-
rado River Storage Project Act, which
include the Glen Canyon, Flaming
Gorge, Aspinall, and Navajo facilities.
This legislation enables the goals of
the DCP to be met by authorizing the
storage and release of water in CRSP
initial units, without charge, for a de-
mand management plan approved by
the Upper Division states and the
Upper Colorado River Commission.
This water will be delivered into such
storage pursuant to the law of, and at
the direction and control of, the State
from which the water is delivered, sub-
ject to approval of the Upper Colorado
River Commission. Development of the
Demand Management Plan, which will
include water accounting mechanisms
and other operational factors, will re-
quire hard work by all four upper basin
States, but once completed will be a
critical tool for these states to improve
their water security.
I ask Senator BENNET, who has been
involved throughout the development
of this bill, does he agree with my
characterization?
Mr. BENNET. I thank Senator GARD-
NER. I agree with his assessment and
those of Chairman MURKOWSKI, Senator
MCSALLY, and Senator CORTEZ MASTO,
about the urgency and path forward for
DCP implementation. I would like to
reiterate that this bill does not exempt
or waive any environmental laws. In
drafting the DCPs, both the upper and
lower basin carefully considered the
environment and the existing environ-
mental analyses and compliance docu-
ments. Additional NEPA compliance
would be needed if Federal actions are
outside the scope of effects analyzed in
the existing compliance and decision
documents.
I ask Senator SINEMA, if this is also
her understanding?
Ms. SINEMA. I agree with my col-
leagues’ statements and am proud to
continue the legacy of water policy
leadership in Arizona. Water plays a
pivotal role for the environment, eco-
nomic development, and cultural herit-
age of Arizona, and I am proud to have
worked closely with the State of Ari-
zona and my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle to keep this process moving
forward. Arizona takes a huge step to-
wards securing its water future under
the Drought Contingency Plan. The
plan provides all Arizona communities,
from Native American tribes to rural
and agricultural regions to metropoli-
tan cities, with greater certainty for
reliable and secure water supplies. It
shows what can be accomplished when
stakeholders work together. I thank
my colleagues for the discussion here
today and urge passage of this legisla-
tion to ensure all Colorado River Basin
States are able to implement the DCP
as soon as possible.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. I thank all of the
Senators for providing their views on
the language and for sponsoring this
important legislation.
I ask Senator MANCHIN, has he heard
the discussion among the sponsors of
this bill? Is what he has heard from
them about the intent of the legisla-
tion in line with his understanding?
Mr. MANCHIN. It is. I thank my col-
leagues for their support of this crit-
ical legislation and for participating in
the discussion here today.
Ms. MCSALLY. I would like to thank
Chairman MURKOWSKI and Ranking
Member MANCHIN for their time, atten-
tion, and support of this critical legis-
lation. I also associate myself with the
comments added by the bill cosponsors
and thank them all for their work on
this issue and their comments about
this bill’s effect.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. I thank my col-
leagues for this clarification and expla-
nation of the Colorado River Drought
Contingency Plan Authorization Act.
As we have just explained, the bill
sponsors, along with the chair and
ranking member of committee of juris-
diction are unified in the expectation
that enactment of this bill will lead to
immediate action by the Secretary of
the Interior, and the DCP will be
signed and implemented upon execu-
tion by the States.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
RECOGNIZING JEROME COUNTY
∑ Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, my col-
leagues Senator MIKE CRAPO and Rep-
resentative MIKE SIMPSON join me
today in recognizing the 100th anniver-
sary of Jerome County, ID.
Established February 8, 1919, by the
Idaho Legislature, the county was
named for either Jerome Kuhn, son of
William S. Kuhn, or Jerome Hill, who
was commissioned by Kuhn to find a
suitable town site north of the Snake
River Canyon. With the city of Jerome
as the county seat, the small farming
communities of Eden and Hazelton also
make up the eastern portion of Jerome
County.
One of the early pioneers of Jerome
County, I.B. Perrine, was looking for a
place to winter his cattle, and Charles
Walgamott showed him a spot with
beautiful clear blue lakes bubbling up
from an underground aquifer. Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP6.008 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2231
April 3, 2019
Perrine settled this area and called it
the Blue Lakes Ranch. These blue
lakes continue to provide water for ir-
rigation, raising rainbow trout, and
pristine drinking water to the resi-
dents of this area. It also features the
beautiful Blues Lakes Country Club
with one of the most scenic 18-hole golf
courses in the State.
Although not officially recognized,
local historians have documented the
Hudson Bay Trail as an alternate route
of the Oregon Trail, which goes
through Jerome County. The traders of
the Hudson Bay Company seemed to
have preferred the trail going north of
the Snake River Canyon to make their
way to Fort Boise in the West and Fort
Hall in the East.
With water, Mr. Perrine saw the
magic this area produced and, with the
help of Eastern United States Fin-
anciers, created the Milner Dam along
the Snake River. The Milner Dam and
subsequent irrigation system opened
the Southern Snake River Plain to
farmers, ranchers, and new commu-
nities. As a result, the communities of
Jerome, Eden, Hazelton, and Green-
wood were established between 1905 and
1911.
In 1919, the Idaho Legislature took
the south portion of Lincoln County
and the western portion of Minidoka
County to carve out Jerome County.
As one of the youngest counties in
Idaho, it is the 43rd county, out of 44,
in the 43rd State.
A notorious part of Jerome County is
the Minidoka Relocation Center north
of Eden; it is one of the 10 Japanese in-
ternment camps created by the U.S.
Government during World War II. Cur-
rently, it stands as the Minidoka Na-
tional Historic Site as a memorial of
the sacrifice and suffering of the Japa-
nese-Americans during this period of
our history.
Today, Jerome County boasts a
thriving economy lead by the dairy in-
dustry, producing more than 100 mil-
lion pounds of cheese, whey protein,
and other dairy products. They also
produce the agricultural commodities
of alfalfa hay, silage corn, barley, win-
ter wheat, sugar beets, potatoes, beans,
and spring wheat.
Senator CRAPO, Representative SIMP-
SON, and I are proud to recognize this
landmark anniversary. We congratu-
late Jerome County residents on this
centennial, and we wish its commu-
nities many more years of success.∑
f
REMEMBERING LEON E. BRAXTON
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
pay tribute to the memory of Leon E.
‘‘Bill’’ Braxton, a World War II veteran
and teacher who dedicated his life in
service to our Nation and educated
countless students throughout his ca-
reer.
Bill Braxton was born near Hope
Hills, NC, on May 1, 1917. After grad-
uating high school in 1934, he enlisted
with the U.S. Army in April 1935, serv-
ing in Panama, Austria, Germany,
Japan, and Korea. He was an honor
graduate of the Coast Artillery School,
European Air Transport Service’s
Flight Captain’s School, and the Air
Force Office of Special Investigations.
Bill flew combat missions in Indo
China in 1954 and aided the French at
the Battle of Dien Bien Phu.
In 1959, he retired from the U.S. Air
Force and enrolled at the University of
Miami, graduating magna cum laude
with a degree in German. He then re-
ceived a fellowship under the National
Defense Education Act to attend Kent
State University, earning a master’s
degree in German in 1964.
Bill’s first teaching position was at
Hialeah High School, teaching German
and English. He taught at Stetson Uni-
versity before moving to Satellite
Beach in 1971, where he joined Satellite
High School. While there, he developed
the school’s German Student Program
and was named teacher of the year for
southern Brevard County. His proudest
achievement was establishing the
school’s Fulbright Student Exchange
program for German students before
retiring from the school in 1979.
In retirement, he continued to teach
French, German, and Spanish at
Brevard Community College and co-au-
thored four nonfiction books based on
his life experiences, people he met at
home and abroad, and events he wit-
nessed while serving in the military.
Bill Braxton lived a full life and
made a difference for his community
and his country. I express my sincerest
condolences to his four children—
Thomas Braxton, Douglas Braxton,
Patty Braxton, and Susan Braxton—his
seven grandchildren, and his three
great-grandchildren. May God bless his
family during this time of sorrow, and
may they be strengthened by the mem-
ory of his life’s service.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO JEFF BECKER
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Jeff Becker, the Lee County
Teacher of the Year from Island Coast
High School in Cape Coral, FL.
Jeff believes building trust with his
students is important for their future
success. Every morning, Jeff greets
students as they walk into the building
and spends his lunch break in the cafe-
teria getting to know everyone.
Jeff is the digital media technology
teacher, where he strives for his stu-
dents to learn video skills. He is cred-
ited with transforming the school’s
news program, winning Best High
School News Show at the Lee County
Film Festival Awards in his first year
of teaching.
He was previously in sales for 4 years
and noted that, while he was having a
fun time, he felt as though he should be
doing something else with his life. He
became a guidance counselor at Cape
Coral High School in 2011 after earning
his master’s degree in elementary and
secondary school counseling at Wil-
mington University.
I extend my sincere thanks and grati-
tude to Jeff for his dedication to the
students at his school and look forward
to hearing of his continued good work
in the years to come.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO CAROLINE BUECHNER
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Caroline Buechner, the Santa
Rosa County Teacher of the Year from
Navarre High School in Navarre, FL.
Caroline was named teacher of the
year after being selected among 33
teachers nominated from each school
in her district. Santa Rosa super-
intendent, Tim Wyrosdick, visited her
classroom during one of her chorus les-
sons to present the award. Caroline was
humbled to receive this honor and
wished to convey a message to all edu-
cators: ‘‘Join together to better the
educational experience for students.’’
Caroline considers her students the
best she could ever ask for, many of
them are training for an upcoming
singing competition. While she was
shocked at the honor, her students
knew she deserved the award and gave
her a round of applause. She is credited
for marrying academia and the per-
forming arts and growing the school’s
choir program.
Caroline has been a choral music edu-
cator at Navarre High School for the
past 9 years and is the coordinator of
the 2019 All State High School Concern
Choir. Her chorus program is consid-
ered one of the more prestigious pro-
grams in Florida.
I extend my sincere gratitude to
Caroline for her dedication to teaching
her choir students and look forward to
hearing of her continued good work in
the years ahead.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO EVAN GOULD
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Evan Gould, the Clay County
Teacher of the Year from Lake Asbury
Junior High School in Green Cove
Springs, FL.
Evan regards it a tremendous honor
to represent all school employees as
teacher of the year. He believes support
staff play a critical role in the success
of students and teachers. His col-
leagues note he leads, inspires, and
coaches his students to perform at the
highest level. Evan believes every stu-
dent can succeed academically, artis-
tically, and socially.
Evan currently teaches chorus and
drama classes at Lake Asbury Junior
High School. He has been a teacher for
30 years, with 22 years in Clay County.
His chorus and drama programs are
highly regarded in Florida, winning
awards and superior ratings at district
and State competitions. He also serves
as chair of District 1 Junior Thespians,
hosting more than 500 drama students
from across the region for their annual
festival.
I express my sincere thanks and best
wishes to Evan for his work to educate
his students in chorus and drama. I
look forward to learning of his contin-
ued success in the years ahead.∑
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP6.010 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2232 April 3, 2019
TRIBUTE TO DEBRA HARTLINE
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Debra Hartline, the Manatee
County Teacher of the Year from
Braden River High School in Bra-
denton, FL.
Debra works closely with her stu-
dents who need to improve their read-
ing comprehension scores in order to
meet the requirement for graduation.
Each year, more than 96 percent of her
students reach that goal. Her students
note she spends many hours of work
regularly reinstilling their confidence
in themselves and preparing them be-
fore they take the reading test.
Debra’s proudest moments are when
she watches her students walk across
the stage at their graduation. Many of
them thought they would never grad-
uate and credit Debra’s reading meth-
ods with helping them improve their
reading comprehension.
Debra has taught for 13 years, with
the last 8 years at Braden River High
School as a reading and English teach-
er. She previously managed a law in
Cleveland, OH, when she noticed her
daughter was struggling with reading
comprehension. After she moved to
Florida in 2000, she began to tutor at
her home and later became a volunteer
teacher at Braden River Elementary
School.
I extend my sincere thanks and ap-
preciation to Debra for her dedication
in helping students achieve the impor-
tant steps of graduating from high
school. I look forward to hearing of her
continued success in the coming
years.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO ANGELA HRITZ
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Angela Hritz, the Okaloosa
County Teacher of the Year from Da-
vidson Middle School in Crestview, FL.
Angela received this award at her
school district’s annual banquet at the
Emerald Coast Conference Center. She
views teaching as a balancing act be-
tween challenging students and em-
powering them, and believes the most
rewarding part of her job are the con-
nections she makes with her students.
In her classes, she incorporates
English language arts standards and
keeps her students engaged by using
Socratic seminars to deepen their un-
derstanding and develop communica-
tion skills. She ensures that her class-
room is a respectful environment for
her students.
Angela is a world history teacher and
has taught at Davidson Middle School
for more than 20 years. She earned a
master’s degree in educational leader-
ship in 2008.
I congratulate Angela for receiving
this important recognition after dec-
ades of teaching and extend my best
wishes to her. I look forward to hearing
of her continued success in the years to
come.∑
TRIBUTE TO TONYA MILES
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
am honored to recognize Tonya Miles,
the Putnam County Teacher of the
Year from William D. Moseley Elemen-
tary School in Palatka, FL.
Tonya was honored to receive this
award, noting that she was over-
whelmed with joy. Her colleagues com-
mended her on the difference she has
made within the school district.
Tonya’s students describe the culture
in her classroom and their school as
one of a big family. It is an atmosphere
where everyone works to help others
succeed. Her students feel like she is
their biggest supporter, both in the
classroom and in their extracurricular
activities.
Tonya has taught for 15 years and
has been a fifth grade math teacher at
William D. Moseley Elementary School
for the past year and a half.
I extend my best wishes to Tonya for
her dedication to her students and
community and congratulate her on
this award.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO MEREDITH NESS
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I honor
Meredith Ness, the Walton County
Teacher of the Year from Mossy Head
Elementary School in DeFuniak
Springs, FL.
Meredith’s colleagues describe her as
possessing the skills and dedication of
a true leader and note that she is high-
ly respected by all at her school. She
views herself as a lifelong learner with
a love for teaching students.
In Meredith’s classes, she uses her
knowledge for research in education
and technology in designing lesson
plans to teach her students. She cur-
rently serves as a professional learning
facilitator, sponsor of Lego league and
robotics club, a teacher mentor, and a
member of the MHS school improve-
ment team.
Meredith has been a teacher for 16
years, with the past 8 years at Mossy
Head Elementary School. She is cur-
rently a fourth grade teacher.
I express my sincere thanks and ap-
preciation to Meredith for all of the
great work she has done for her stu-
dents and congratulate her for winning
this award.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO BRYAN POEPPERLING
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Bryan Poepperling, the
Hendry County Teacher of the Year
from Clewiston High School in
Clewiston, FL.
In Bryan’s classroom, his teaching of
philosophy is based off a quote from
Thomas Edison, ‘‘There is no sub-
stitute for hard work.’’ He works to in-
still this mentality to both his stu-
dents in the classroom, and the stu-
dent-athletes he coaches.
Bryan is the social studies depart-
ment lead and teaches advanced place-
ment U.S. history and U.S. history
classes to sophomore and juniors at
Clewiston High School. He also coaches
cross country and junior varsity bas-
ketball. He earned his bachelor’s de-
gree in secondary education and social
studies at the Bloomsburg University
of Pennsylvania.
I extend my sincere thanks and grati-
tude to Bryan for his dedication to
helping his students succeed in school.
I look forward to learning of his con-
tinued good work in the coming years.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO TAMI PORTER
PARISH
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Tami Porter Parish, the
Washington County Teacher of the
Year from Vernon Middle School in
Vernon, FL.
Tami’s students find her more than
their academic influencer, she is also a
kind and admirable friend. Her stu-
dents view her as someone who is al-
ways there for them and inspires them
to achieve academic success. Tami con-
siders herself blessed to teach her stu-
dents, with many seeking her advice
after class.
Tami is an eighth grade teacher at
Vernon Middle School. She believes she
is fortunate to work in the Washington
County School District and would not
trade a day of her teaching for any-
thing.
I would like to express my sincere
thanks and appreciation to Tami and
extend my best wishes on her contin-
ued success in the years to come.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO ALANNA ROHLING
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
honor Alanna Rohling, the Escambia
County Teacher of the Year from Lin-
coln Park Elementary School in Pensa-
cola, FL.
Alanna’s colleagues describe her as a
teacher who embraces students with
emotional challenges and helps them
to succeed through her creative teach-
ing style. She has been credited as a
significant factor of the school’s turn-
around model to improve students’ aca-
demic success in recent years. She
dedicates her time not only to her stu-
dents, but also to their parents, keep-
ing them informed of their students’
progress throughout the school year.
Her students’ parents are grateful for
this dedication, noting she is always
willing to communicate, no matter the
time of day. They believe her efforts
have resulted in their young students
being better prepared for future school-
ing.
Alanna is a kindergarten teacher and
has been at Lincoln Park Elementary
School since 2015. She also serves as
the STEM committee cochair, a mem-
ber of her school’s leadership team, and
works as a mentor to students outside
of school.
I extend my sincere thanks and grati-
tude to Alanna for her work and look
forward to hearing of her continued
success in the years to come.∑
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.038 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2233
April 3, 2019
TRIBUTE TO LINDSAY SUMMERLIN
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Lindsay Summerlin, the Gulf
County Teacher of the Year from Port
St. Joe Junior—Senior High School in
Port St. Joe, FL.
Lindsay was shocked and over-
whelmed with emotion to receive this
award in front of her students when her
daughter presented her with a bouquet
of golden roses. She credits her stu-
dents with making her a better teacher
and was honored to receive Gulf Coun-
ty’s support.
Lindsay works to build relationships
with her students and seeks to help
others in need. Following Hurricane
Michael, she opened her home as a
haven for neighbors and school district
personnel whose homes sustained dam-
age.
Lindsay is an exceptional student
education teacher at Port St. Joe Jun-
ior—Senior High School. Her family
moved from Georgia last year after her
husband accepted the head baseball
coaching position for the high school’s
team, the Tiger Sharks.
I express my best wishes and grati-
tude to Lindsay for her work and look
forward to hearing of her continued
success in the years ahead.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO LAURA ADAMS
∑ Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, in
2002, as Rhode Island’s attorney gen-
eral, I launched an organization aimed
at helping Rhode Island’s healthcare
system reduce waste and improve care
for our patients. The first hire at the
new Rhode Island Quality Institute was
Laura Adams. Convincing her to join
us as president and CEO was our ex-
tremely good fortune. As Laura steps
aside from those duties, I come to the
floor today to recognize her many con-
tributions to our healthcare system, in
Rhode Island and nationwide, and to
wish her well in her next adventure.
Lowering costs and improving qual-
ity in our healthcare system is, to say
the least, a vital purpose. The Rhode
Island Quality Institute was estab-
lished to tackle some of the main driv-
ers of America’s healthcare problems,
to improve health and advance the
quality and value of care in Rhode Is-
land. Under the leadership of Laura
Adams, that mission achieved national
recognition. As Laura prepares to
leave, the institute’s innovation and
expertise is helping improve care
around the country.
Laura got off to a very strong start.
In 2002, the RIQI collaborated with
Surescripts to pioneer a first in the Na-
tion, end-to-end electronic prescribing
system. Today, Surescripts has scaled
up to every state in the country, with
virtually every prescriber using it. In
2007, Child Magazine pointed to the
State’s uptake in e-prescribing as a
key reason for ranking Rhode Island
first overall on its list of the ‘‘Safest
Places in the Nation to Raise a Child.’’
Laura then turned to another big
challenge for our healthcare system:
hospital-acquired infections. In 2005,
with Laura as Principal Investigator,
RIQI launched the Rhode Island Inten-
sive Care Unit Collaborative to iden-
tify ways to reduce the incidence of in-
fections among ICU patients. By 2012,
Rhode Island ICUs had shown signifi-
cant improvement on several key types
of infections.
In 2004, Laura and RIQI joined the
Rhode Department of Health to apply
for Federal funding to build an ambi-
tious, innovative statewide health in-
formation exchange. RIQI took the
lead building and maintaining the re-
sulting system, CurrentCare. It took
tremendous technical expertise to con-
front the complex governance, busi-
ness, privacy, and security challenges
involved. Laura, with the assistance of
a talented lawyer, Linn Freedman,
proved more than equal to the task. A
2017 analysis shows that CurrentCare
returns millions of dollars in savings to
our healthcare system.
Over the course of the development
of CurrentCare, RIQI became the only
organization in the country to win all
three major health information tech-
nology grants under the American Re-
covery and Reinvestment Act, bringing
in a total of $27 million to Rhode Is-
land. Federal agencies like the Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services and
Office of the National Coordinator for
Health Information Technology award-
ed RIQI substantial Federal grants to
tackle difficult specialized challenges.
RIQI has been recognized by govern-
ment and healthcare leaders, chambers
of commerce, and leading business pub-
lications for its numerous innovations.
It has also been consistently recog-
nized as one of the best places to work
in Rhode Island.
In the process, Laura has won na-
tional acclaim. This year, a leading na-
tional hospital publication placed her
on their list of ‘‘Female Health IT
Leaders to Know’’ for her ‘‘significant
contributions to health IT advance-
ments, leading large teams, initiatives
and companies focused on improving
patient care.’’ She has delivered hun-
dreds of keynotes and presentations in
48 States and a dozen foreign countries.
She has been named a cochair of the
National Academy of Medicine Health
Data Trust Initiative Steering Com-
mittee, and she has been appointed to
numerous professional and corporate
boards.
Laura Adams has poured her consid-
erable talent, experience, and dedica-
tion into making the Rhode Island
Quality Institute a national leader in
health innovation and transformation.
I thank her for years of service to
Rhode Island and to our healthcare
system nationwide.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 12:33 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bill, without amendment:
S. 725. An act to change the address of the
postal facility designated in honor of Cap-
tain Humayun Khan.
The message also announced that the
House has passed the following bill, in
which it requests the concurrence of
the Senate:
H.R. 540. An act to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
770 Ayrault Road in Fairport, New York, as
the ‘‘Louise and Bob Slaughter Post Office’’.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bill was read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 540. An act to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
770 Ayrault Road in Fairport, New York, as
the ‘‘Louise and Bob Slaughter Post Office’’;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
H.R. 7. An act to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to provide more effec-
tive remedies to victims of discrimination in
the payment of wages on the basis of sex, and
for other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–840. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting a report
on the approved retirement of Lieutenant
General Joseph Anderson, United States
Army, and his advancement to the grade of
lieutenant general on the retired list; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–841. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readi-
ness), transmitting the report of two (2) offi-
cers authorized to wear the insignia of the
grade of brigadier general in accordance with
title 10, United States Code, section 777; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–842. A communication from the Prin-
cipal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense
(Comptroller), transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘Department of De-
fense Annual Report on Audit for Fiscal
Year 2018’’; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–843. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
entitled ‘‘Consumer Response Annual Re-
port’’; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–844. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
entitled ‘‘Bureau of Consumer Financial Pro-
tection’s Office of Minority and Women In-
clusion Annual Report to Congress’’; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–845. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for Legislation, Regula-
tion and Energy Efficiency, Department of
Energy, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Cost Sharing: En-
ergy Policy Act of 2005’’ ((RIN1991–AC13) (2
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03AP6.037 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2234 April 3, 2019
CFR Part 910)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on April 2, 2019; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
EC–846. A joint communication from the
Acting Secretary of the Interior and the Sec-
retary of Agriculture, transmitting proposed
legislation; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–847. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Education, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the Uniform Resource Locator (URL)
for the Department of Education’s fiscal
year 2018 Annual Performance Report and
fiscal year 2020 Annual Performance Plan; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
EC–848. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Financial Re-
port of the United States Government for
Fiscal Year 2018’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–849. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislative Affairs, De-
partment of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the Department’s Fis-
cal Year 2018 Federal Information Security
Management Act (FISMA) and Agency Pri-
vacy Management Report; to the Commit-
tees on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs; Commerce, Science, and
Transportation; and Appropriations.
EC–850. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the Bu-
reau’s fiscal year 2018 annual report relative
to the Notification and Federal Employee
Antidiscrimination and Retaliation Act of
2002 (No FEAR Act); to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–851. A communication from the Sec-
retary to the Board, Railroad Retirement
Board, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
Board’s fiscal year 2018 annual report rel-
ative to the Notification and Federal Em-
ployee Antidiscrimination and Retaliation
Act of 2002 (No FEAR Act); to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–852. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–47, ‘‘Sense of the Council Urg-
ing the Federal Government to Prevent Nu-
clear War Resolution of 2019’’; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–853. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Uni-
formed Services Employment and Reemploy-
ment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA) Quarterly
Report to Congress; First Quarter of Fiscal
Year 2019’’; to the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs.
EC–854. A communication from the Chair-
man, Federal Maritime Commission, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the 57th Annual
Report of the activities of the Federal Mari-
time Commission for fiscal year 2018; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petition or memorial
was laid before the Senate and was re-
ferred or ordered to lie on the table as
indicated:
POM–27. A resolution adopted by the Sen-
ate of the State of West Virginia urging the
United States Congress to pass legislation
permitting vehicles traveling on interstate
highways in West Virginia to have the same
maximum gross vehicle weight and axle con-
figuration as currently permissible for vehi-
cles traveling on United States routes in
West Virginia; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
SENATE RESOLUTION 78
Whereas, Federal law currently imposes a
maximum gross vehicle weight of 80,000
pounds on interstate highways, without any
tolerance, and with axle weight restrictions
and the bridge formula often reducing such
maximum weight; and
Whereas, West Virginia also has an 80,000-
pound maximum gross vehicle weight limit,
but permits a 10-percent tolerance, raising
the permissible maximum weight to 88,000
pounds; and
Whereas, Vehicles transporting commod-
ities through West Virginia often reach our
state on interstate highways, but leave the
interstate highways system and switch to
West Virginia’s local roads, taking advan-
tage of the higher weight limit on such
routes; and
Whereas, Such practice increases traffic on
West Virginia’s mountainous country roads,
raises safety concerns, and limits economic
avenues; and
Whereas, Interstates could safely support
the same weight restrictions as those on U.S.
routes in West Virginia given that the design
standards used for both systems are identical
and the weight increase would be minimal;
and
Whereas, The West Virginia Department of
Transportation, Division of Highways, is
poised to address any questions Congress or
the U.S. Department of Transportation, Fed-
eral Highway Administration, may have to
demonstrate the feasibility of this request;
and
Whereas, Providing an exception to the ex-
isting weight limits and restrictions in Title
23 of the United States Code, including the
bridge formula, for vehicles operating on
interstate highways in West Virginia will
allow more vehicles to travel the safer inter-
state highways and expand economic access
throughout West Virginia; and
Whereas, Congress has previously provided
exceptions to the maximum gross vehicle
weight on interstate highways for several
states of the United States; therefore, be it
Resolved by the Legislature of West Virginia:
That Congress is urged to allow vehicles
traveling on interstate highways in West
Virginia to have the same maximum gross
vehicle weight and axle configuration as cur-
rently permissible for vehicles traveling on
U.S. routes in West Virginia; and, be it fur-
ther
Resolved, That the Clerk of the Senate is
hereby directed to forward a copy of this res-
olution to the President and Secretary of the
United States Senate, to the Speaker and
Clerk of the United States House of Rep-
resentatives, and to the members of West
Virginia’s congressional delegation.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. RISCH, from the Committee on
Foreign Relations, without amendment:
S. Res. 123. A resolution supporting the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization and rec-
ognizing its 70 years of accomplishments.
By Mr. RUBIO, from the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship, with-
out amendment:
S. 862. A bill to repeal the sunset for collat-
eral requirements for Small Business Admin-
istration disaster loans.
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEES
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. RISCH for the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
John P. Abizaid, of Nevada, to be Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to the King-
dom of Saudi Arabia.
Nominee: John P. Abizaid.
Post: Saudi Arabia.
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
Contributions, amount, date, and donee:
1. Self: $0,00.
2. Spouse: $1000.00, May 30, 2017, Dean Hell-
er.
3. Children and Spouses: Sharon Shaw:
none. Robert Shaw: none. Christine Abizaid:
see attachment. Jill Murphy: see attach-
ment. David Abizaid: none. Joanna Abizaid:
none.
4. Parents: Ernest Abizaid—deceased; Fae
Williams Abizaid—deceased.
5. Grandparents: Arthur Jepsen—deceased;
Elva Jepsen—deceased; Amin Abizaid—de-
ceased; Martha Abizaid—deceased.
6. Brothers and Spouses: Arthur Q. Jepsen:
none; Gail Jepsen—deceased.
7. Sisters and Spouses: Sandra Burk—de-
ceased; Richard Burk—deceased.
ATTACHMENT
Contributor name, recipient, state, em-
ployer, receipt, date, amount:
Murphy, Jill, Beto for Texas, VA, Federal
Government, 11/05/2018, $50.00.
Murphy, Jill, ActBlue, VA, Federal Gov-
ernment, 11/05/2018, $50.00.
Murphy, Jill, Beto for Texas, VA, Federal
Government, 11/03/2018, $25.00.
Murphy, Jill, ActBlue, VA, Federal Gov-
ernment, 11/03/2018, $25.00.
Murphy, Jill, Beto for Texas, VA, Federal
Government, 10/27/2018, $25.00.
Murphy, Jill, ActBlue, VA, Federal Gov-
ernment, 10/27/2018, $25.00.
Murphy, Jill, ActBlue, VA, Federal Gov-
ernment, 10/27/2018, $2.50.
Murphy, Jill, ActBlue, VA, Fed Gov, 09/25/
2018, $5.00.
Murphy, Jill, ActBlue, VA, Fed Gov, 09/25/
2018, $50.00.
Murphy, Jill, ActBlue, VA, Fed Gov, 09/19/
2018, $50.00.
Murphy, Jill, ActBlue, VA, Fed Gov, 09/10/
2018, $5.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 11/01/
2018, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 10/17/
2018, $100.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 10/17/
2018, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 09/24/
2018, $150.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 09/10/
2018, $100.00.
Abizaid, Christy, Gina Ortiz Jones for Con-
gress, TX, Dell, 09/01/2018, $350.00.
Abizaid, Christy, Gina Ortiz Jones for Con-
gress, TX, Dell, 07/30/2018, $500.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 04/20/
2018, $5.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 04/20/
2018, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, Elissa Slotkin for Con-
gress, TX, se, 03/20/2018, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 03/20/
2018, $5.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 03/20/
2018, $50.00.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP6.012 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2235
April 3, 2019
Abizaid, Christy, Elissa Slotkin for Con-
gress, TX, se, 02/20/2018, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 02/20/
2018, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 02/20/
2018, $5.00.
Abizaid, Christy, Elissa Slotkin for Con-
gress, TX, se, 01/20/2018, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 01/20/
2018, $5.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 01/20/
2018, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, Elissa Slotkin for Con-
gress, TX, self-employed, 12/20/2017, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 11/27/
2017, $5.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 11/27/
2017, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 11/20/
2017, $5.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 11/20/
2017, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, Elissa Slotkin for Con-
gress, TX, self-employed, 11/20/2017, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 10/27/
2017, $5.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 10/27/
2017, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 10/20/
2017, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 10/20/
2017, $5.00.
Abizaid, Christy, Elissa Slotkin for Con-
gress, TX, self-employed, 10/20/2017, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 09/27/
2017, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 09/20/
2017, $5.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 08/20/
2017, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 08/20/
2017, $5.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 07/20/
2017, $50.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 07/20/
2017, $5.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 06/19/
2017, $25.00.
Abizaid, Christy, ActBlue, TX, self, 06/19/
2017, $2.00.
Stephen Akard, of Indiana, to be Director
of the Office of Foreign Missions, with the
rank of Ambassador.
Nominee: Stephen J. Akard.
Post: Office of Foreign Missions.
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
Contributions, amount, date, donee:
1. Self: $250.00, 10–01–2016, Trump Make
America Great Again Committee; $200.00, 09–
30–2016, Donald J. Trump for President;
$250.00, 01–18–2016, Friends of Kip Tom.
2. Spouse: Kay Akard: None.
3. Children and Spouses: Julianne Akard:
None; Claire Akard: None; Hope Akard:
None.
4. Parents: L. Philip Akard—Deceased;
Julianne Akard—Deceased.
5. Grandparents: William Akard—Deceased;
Flava Akard—Deceased; Johannes Herzog—
Deceased; Dorothea Herzog—Deceased.
6. Brothers and Spouses: John Akard:
None; Mark Akard: None; Matthew Akard:
None; Maconna Akard (sp): None; Luke
Akard: None; Carol Akard (sp): None.
7. Sisters and Spouses: Dorothy Swartzell:
None; David Swartzell (sp): None; Sarah Wil-
son: $100.00, 10–07–2018, Senate Conservatives
Fund; $100.00, 09–20–2018, Senate Conserv-
atives Fund; $50.00, 12–17–2017, Senate Con-
servatives Fund; $100.00, 12–03–2017, Senate
Conservatives Fund; $100.00, 12–03–2017, Roy
Moore for U.S. Senate; $100.00, 11–20–2017,
Senate Conservatives Fund; $50.00, 11–04–2017,
Senate Conservatives Fund; $50.00, 09–23–2017,
Senate Conservatives Fund; $50.00, 09–17–2017,
Senate Conservatives Fund; $50.00, 08–11–2017,
Senate Conservatives Fund; $50.00, 08–11–2017,
Senate Conservatives Fund; $50.00, 11–18–2015,
Senate Conservatives Fund; $25.00, 10–08–2016,
Senate Conservatives Fund; $25.00, 10–08–2016,
Senate Conservatives Fund; $50.00, 10–08–2016,
Senate Conservatives Fund; $50.00, 10–08–2016,
Committee to Elect Darryl Glenn; $50.00, 10–
08–2016, Committee to Elect Darryl Glenn;
$50.00, 08–17–2016, Senate Conservatives Fund;
$50.00, 08–17–2016, Senate Conservatives Fund;
$50.00, 08–17–2016, Committee to Elect Darryl
Glenn; $50.00, 08–17–2016, Committee to Elect
Darryl Glenn; $50.00, 08–17–2016, Committee
to Elect Darryl Glenn; $50.00, 07–10–2016, Sen-
ate Conservatives Fund; $25.00, 04–19–2016,
Senate Conservatives Fund; $25.00, 04–19–2016,
Senate Conservatives Fund; $25.00, 04–19–2016,
Senate Conservatives Fund; $25.00, 04–19–2016,
Senate Conservatives Fund; $25.00, 04–19–2016,
Stutzman for Senate; John Wilson (sp):
None.
Lynda Blanchard, of Alabama, to be Am-
bassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary
of the United States of America to the Re-
public of Slovenia.
Nominee: Lynda C. Blanchard.
Post: Ambassador Extraordinary and Plen-
ipotentiary of the United States of America
to the Republic of Slovenia.
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
Contributions, amount, date, and donee:
1. Self: $2,700.00, 11/5/2016, Martha Roby for
Congress; $2,500.00, 10/31/2016, Reaching for a
Brighter America PAC; $5,000.00, 9/30/2016,
Common Sense Common Solutions PAC;
$1,500.00, 5/18/2016, Kay Granger Campaign
Fund; $500.00, 5/13/2016, Gary Palmer for Con-
gress; $1,000.00, 2/11/2016, Kay Granger Cam-
paign Fund; $40,725.00, 11/30/2017, Republican
National Committee; $9,275.00, 11/30/2017, Re-
publican National Committee; $5,000.00, 10/26/
2017, HALPAC; $1,500.00, 10/19/2017, Reaching
for a Brighter America PAC; $24,625.00, 8/29/
2017, Republican National Committee;
$1,200.00, 8/29/2017, Kay Granger Campaign
Fund; $2,700.00, 8/29/2017, Kay Granger Cam-
paign Fund; $50,000.00, 8/1/2017, Strengthen
Majority Committee ($25,000 went to NRSC
and $24,625 went to RNC, $1,200 to Kay
Granger Campaign Fund, and $2,700 to Kay
Granger Campaign Fund); $25,000.00, 8/1/2017,
NRSC; $1,000.00, 5/16/2017, Mike Rogers for
Congress; $1,500.00, 5/12/2017, Kay Granger
Campaign Fund; $125,000.00, 1/16/2018, Trump
Victory; $2,700.00, 5/9/2018, Martha Roby for
Congress.
2. Children and Spouses: Christopher John
Blanchard: deceased. Benjamin Nicholas
Blanchard: $1,000.00, 8/11/2017, Kay Granger
Campaign Fund. Haleyann Denise Blanchard:
None. Keren Cesia Blanchard: None. Jennifer
Ruth Blanchard: None. Gracie Mae Blan-
chard: None. Lizbeth Lucero Blanchard:
None.
3. Parents: Peggy Cleveland Powell—None;
Dwight Merrill Cleveland—deceased. John
Miller Powell (step)—None.
4. Grandparents: Oscar Hale—deceased;
Stella Hale—deceased; Richard Scales
(step)—deceased; Ann Scales—deceased; Mr.
Cleveland—deceased when father was a child,
did not know him.
5. Brothers and Spouses: Mitchell Tyson
Powell (step)—$6,000.00, 7/19/2017, Kay
Granger Campaign Fund; Michelle Brenny
Powell—None.
6. Sisters and Spouses: Yvonne Annette
Schneckenberger—None; Donald Michael
Schneckenberger—None; Cynthia Cleveland
Burnside—None; Sheldon John Burnside—
None.
MARCH 4, 2019.
Hon. JIM RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. ROBERT MENENDEZ,
Ranking Member, Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions, U.S. Senate, Washington. DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN AND RANKING MEMBER
MENENDEZ: Please update my Committee
Questionnaire and my Federal Campaign
Contribution Report based on the informa-
tion outlined below.
Committee Questionnaire: Part B. Question
6, entitled ‘‘Political Contributions’’ should
be amended to include the following con-
tributions:
1. Self: An Additional $2,700.00, 5/9/2018,
Martha Roby for Congress.
Federal Campaign Contribution Report: The
‘‘self’’ section of my Federal Campaign Con-
tribution Report should he amended to in-
clude the following contributions:
An Additional $2,700.00, 5/9/2018, Martha
Roby for Congress.
Please note the FEC reflects six campaign
contributions for 2018. I made two campaign
contributions—one to Martha Roby’s cam-
paign, and one to Trump Victory. Martha
Roby’s campaign divided the contribution
into two smaller amounts (one for the pri-
mary election and one for general election).
I have confirmed with Elise Dickens, of the
Republican National Committee, that there
is one contribution filed under my name in
2018 to Trump Victory, the joint fundraising
committee between the RNC and Donald J.
Trump campaign, in the amount of $125,000
on January 16, 2018. This came as a result of
a $250,000 joint check from myself and John
Blanchard, and $125K was allocated to each
person.
She further advised, once a check is re-
ceived by Trump Victory, the RNC and Don-
ald J. Trump campaign can then transfer
their legally designated amounts.
The Breakdown of the $125,000 Trump Vic-
tory contribution—
$2,700 to Donald J. Trump (primary) on 1/16/
18
$2,700 to Donald J. Trump (general) on 1/16/
18
$85,700 to RNC (building fund) on 1/16/18
$33,900 to RNC (general account) on 1/16/18
**this has not been reported yet on FEC
since the RNC has not transferred it over
from the Trump Victory account.
$125,000 total to Trump Victory in 2018
Thank you and the Committee for consid-
eration of my nomination.
Sincerely,
LYNDA BLANCHARD.
Joseph Cella, of Michigan, to be Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to the Republic
of Fiji, and to serve concurrently and with-
out additional compensation as Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the Republic of
Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru, the King-
dom of Tonga, and Tuvalu.
Nominee: Joseph James Cella.
Post: Ambassador Extraordinary and Plen-
ipotentiary of the United States of America
to the Republic of Fiji, the Republic of
Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru, the King-
dom of Tonga, and Tuvalu.
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP6.051 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2236 April 3, 2019
Contributions, amount, date, and donee:
1. Self: $375, 5–12–06, Fidelis America PAC;
$250, 9–7–08, McCain-Palin Victory 2008; $250,
9–29–08 Republican National Committee; $150,
3–31–12 Rick Santorum for President, Inc.;
$100, 3–31–12, Rick Santorum for President,
Inc.
2. Spouse: Kristen Renee Cella: $500, 9–30–
11, The American Way—Durant 2012.
3. Children: Francesca Teresa Cella: $0;
John Paul Cornelius Cella: $0; Dominic Pas-
chal Cella: $0; Rita Rose Benedicta Cella: $0;
Mariana Lucia Cella: $0; Anthony Gilbert
Cella: $0.
4. Parents: Janice Jean Cella: $0; Robert
Francis Celia: $0 (deceased).
5. Grandparents: Irene Rose: (deceased) $0;
Emmett Rose: (deceased) $0; Angela Cella:
(deceased) $0; Joseph Cella: (deceased) $0.
6. Brothers and Spouses: Robert Francis
Cella: $35, 11–1–16, Make America Great
Again PAC; Kelli Anne Cella: $0.
7. Sisters and Spouses: Christina Marie
Cella: $27, 2–13–16, ActBlue; $2.70, 2–13–16,
ActBlue; $50.00, 3–16–16, ActBlue; $15.00, 3–31–
16, ActBlue; $50.00, 4–18–16, ActBlue; John
Paul Nelson: $3.86, 11–5–16, ActBlue; $2.70, 11–
5–16, ActBlue; $3.86, 11–5–16, ActBlue; $3.85,
11–5–16, ActBlue; $3.86, 11–5–16 ActBlue; $3.86,
11–5–16, ActBlue; $3.86, 11–6–16, ActBlue;
$15.00, 12–16–06, ActBlue; $5.00, 1–2–17,
ActBlue; $5,00, 1–24–17, ActBlue; $11.00, 1–30–
17, ActBlue; $11.00, 2–27–17, ActBlue; $2.50, 4–
17–17, ActBlue; $11.00, 5–25–17, ActBlue; $2.50,
6–18–17, ActBlue; $2.50, 6–18–17, ActBlue.
Michael J. Fitzpatrick, of Virginia, a Ca-
reer Member of the Senior Foreign Service,
Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to the Republic
of Ecuador.
Nominee: Fitzpatrick, Michael Joseph.
Post: Quito, Ecuador.
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate. I have also compared this
data to that which is publicly available via
FEC.gov website, and am aware of no incon-
sistencies.)
Contributions, amount, date, and donee:
1. Self: none, N/A, N/A.
2. Spouse: Silvana V. Fitzpatrick: none, N/
A, N/A.
3. Children and Spouses: Michelle N.
Fitzpatrick: none, N/A, N/A.
4. Parents: John R. Fitzpatrick, Jr.—de-
ceased; Ruth M. Fitzpatrick: none, N/A, N/A.
5. Grandparents: John R. and Elizabeth K.
Fitzpatrick—deceased. Joseph A. and Kath-
erine D. McDonough—deceased.
6. Brothers and Spouses: John F. and Ellen
C.B. Fitzpatrick: none, N/A, N/A.
7. Sisters and Spouses: P. Kelly
Fitzpatrick: none, N/A, N/A.
Kenneth S. George, of Texas, to be Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to the Oriental
Republic of Uruguay.
Nominee: Kenneth Suggett George.
Post, Ambassador, Uruguay.
Contributions, amount, date, and donee:
Kenneth Suggett George, Self: $1,000.00,
04.02.2012, Elizabeth Ames Jones for Texas
Senate; $500.00, 04.02.2012, Christi L. Craddick
(Texas Railroad Commission); $2,500.00,
02.08.2013, Friends of Jeb Hensarling;
$2,500.00, 05.29.2013, Republican National
Committee; $2,000.00, 08.16.2016, Republican
National Committee; $1,000.00, 09.06.2013, Dal-
las Entrepreneur PAC; $1,200.00, 09.09.2013,
Committee to Protect Prosperity and Free
Enterprise; $200.00, 09.09.2013, Keith Rothfus
for Congress; $200,00, 09.30.2013, Gary G. Mil-
ler for Congress; $2,600.00, 11.25.2013, French
Hill for Arkansas; $1,000,00, 02.27.2014, Edward
W. Gillespie for Senate; $2,600.00, 03.17.2014,
Friends of Jeb Hensarling; $500.00, 03.26.2014,
Texans for Dan Patrick; $500.00, 04.21.2014,
Sean Duffy for Wisconsin; $500.00, 05.23.2014,
Chart H. Westcott; $2,600.00, 06.05.2014,
French Hill for Arkansas; $40.00, 07.12.2014,
Libertarian Party of Texas; $5,000.00,
10.17.2014, Texans for Dan Patrick; $1,250,00,
12.13.2014, Texans for Dan Patrick; $2,500.00,
12.15.2014, Morgan D. Meyer; $107.50,
03.23.2015, Texas & Southwestern Cattle Rais-
ers; $2,200.00, 06.16.2015, Rick Perry; $2,700.00,
11.13.2015, Ted Cruz for President; $2,700.00,
11.20.2015, Marco Rubio for President; $100.00,
06.14.2016, Texans for Greg Abbott; $2,000.00,
08.17.2016, Trump Victory; $2,700.00, 08.24.2016,
Trump Victory; $1,000.00, 08.29.2016, Donald B.
Huffines; $250.00, 08.31.2016, Dallas County
Council of Republican Women; $2,500.00,
10.26.2016, Texans for Dan Patrick; $1,000.00,
11.03.2016, Sid Miller; $5,000.00, 01.11.2017,
Trump for America, Inc.; $2,700.00, 02.28.2017,
Friends of Jeb Hensarling; $1,000.00,
03.21.2017, Faith Johnson for Dallas County
District Attorney; $2,700.00, 03.29.2017, Pete
Sessions for Congress; $1,000.00, 06.19.2017, Re-
publican Party of Texas; $1,000.00, 10.18.2017,
Faith Johnson for Dallas County District At-
torney; $1,000.00, 10.19.2017, Van Taylor for
Congress; $2,700.00, 10.20.2017, Trump Victory;
$2,700.00, 10.26.2017, Pete Sessions for Con-
gress; $1,000.00, 10.30.2017, Republican Chal-
lengers Fund; $2,500.00, 12.28.2017, Estes for
Texas; $2,500.00, 12.28.2017, Miller for Texas;
$500.00, 12.31.2017, Bunni Pounds for Congress;
$2,500.00, 01.18.2018, Dallas County Republican
Party-Primary; $1,500.00, 03.27.2018, Jake
Ellzey for Congress; $2,200.00, 05.23.2018,
Bunni Pounds for Congress; $1,500.00,
05.23.2018, Jake Ellzey for Congress; $5,000.00,
10.19.2018, Pete Sessions for Congress;
$2,700.00, 10.22.2018, French Hill for Arkansas;
$1,000.00, 10.22.2018, Lisa Luby Ryan, Texas
State Representative Campaign; $2,700.00,
11.05.2018, Van Taylor for Congress.
Patricia Mast George, Spouse: $2,600.00,
09.30.2013, Pete Sessions for Congress;
$2.600.00, 12.09.2013, French Hill for Arkansas;
$1,000.00, 02.20.2014, Texans for John Cornyn,
Inc.; $2,500.00, 06.30.2014, Friends of Jeb Hen-
sarling; $2,700.00, 03.31.2015, Pete Sessions for
Congress; $1,200.00, 09.02.2015, Committee to
Protect Prosperity and Free Enterprise;
$300.00, 09.02.2015, Bruce Poliquin for Con-
gress; $300.00, 09.02.2015, Thomas Earl Emmer,
Jr. for Congress; $300.00, 09.30.2015, French
Hill for Arkansas; $2,700.00, 11.07.2016, Friends
of Jeb Hensarling; $2,700.00, 11.07.2016, Pete
Sessions for Congress; $2,700.00, 06.30.2017,
Pete Sessions for Congress; $2,700.00,
10.23.2017, Trump Victory; $500.00, 02.01.2018,
Van Taylor Campaign; $500.00, 02.19.2018, Vic
Cunningham Campaign; $1,000.00, 05.08.2018,
War Veterans Fund benefitting Mike Waltz,
Dan Crenshaw, Clayton Hinchman, Jake
Ellzey and Lynne Blankenship; $500.00,
05.15.2018, Bunni Pounds for Congress;
$2,700.00, 07.04.2018, French Hill for Arkansas;
$1,000.00, 09.17.2018, Dallas Entrepreneurs—
Sessions 2018; $500.00, 09.24.2018, Morgan
Meyer Campaign; $500.00, 10.14.2018, Crenshaw
for Congress.
Kenneth Suggett George II, Son: None.
Carolyn Dudley George: None.
Patrick Sarsfield George, Son: $2,700.00,
06.30.2015, Rick Perry for President; $1,000.00,
12.14.2015, Marco Rubio for President;
$1,000.00, 05.31.2017, Republican Party of
Texas; $25.00, 06.05.2017, Republican Party of
Texas; $25.00, 07.05.2017, Republican Party of
Texas; $100.00, 07.14.2017, Ted Cruz for Senate;
$25.00, 08.05.2017, Republican Party of Texas;
$25.00, 09.05.2017, Republican Party of Texas;
$25.00, 11.05.2017, Republican Party of Texas;
$25.00, 12.09.2017, Republican Party of Texas;
$200.00, 05.12.2018, Texas for Jake Ellzey;
$1,000.00, 05.12.2018, War Veterans Fund bene-
fitting Mike Waltz, Dan Crenshaw, Clayton
Hinchman, Jake Ellzey and Lynne
Blankenship; $200.00, 05.12.2018, Lynne
Blankenbeker for Congress; $200.00, 05.29.2018,
Michael Waltz for Congress; $50.00, 07.14.2018,
Trump Make America Great Again Cam-
paign; $50.00, 07.19.2018, Trump Make Amer-
ica Great Again Campaign; $25.00, 09.05.2018,
Republican Party of Texas.
Elizabeth Secrest George, Spouse: $2,700.00,
06.30.2015, Rick Perry for President.
Clement Roberdeau George, Son: $1,000.00,
12.02.2015, Marco Rubio for President.
Molly Cooper George, Spouse: None.
Elizabeth George Gosselin, Daughter:
None.
Chase Karl Gosselin, Spouse: None.
Clement Enos George, Father: Deceased.
Betty Suggett George, Mother: Deceased.
Gransparents, Long Deceased.
Meredith George Tinsley, Sister: None.
Edward R. Tinsley, Brother-in-Law:
$1,000.00, 05.22.2014, National Restaurant As-
sociation PAC; $500.00, 06.29.2015, Friends of
John Boehner; $1,000.00, 12.28.2015, National
Restaurant Association PAC.
Jeffrey Ross Gunter, of California, to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of America
to the Republic of Iceland.
Nominee: Jeffrey Ross Gunter.
Post: Ambassador to the Republic of Ice-
land.
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
Contributions, amount, date, and donee:
Self: $177,563.00, 2013–present.
Spouse (deceased): N/A, N/A, N/A.
Children and Spouses: Sophie Gunter:
None, N/A, N/A. Simon Gunter, None, N/A, N/
A.
Parents: Milton Gunter (deceased): N/A, N/
A, N/A. Sally Gunter (deceased): N/A, N/A, N/
A.
Grandparents: Seymour Mintz (deceased):
N/A, N/A, N/A. Jenny Mintz (deceased): N/A,
N/A, N/A. Jacob Gunter (deceased): N/A, N/A,
N/A. Sadie Gunter (deceased): N/A, N/A, N/A.
Brothers and Spouses: N/A, N/A, N/A.
Sisters and Spouses: Elyse Gunter: None,
N/A, N/A.
Category, contributor, location, occupa-
tion, date, amount, recipient.
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los
Angeles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 3/13/2014,
$2,600.00, Collins, Susan M (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los
Angeles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 3/13/2014,
$2,600.00, Collins, Susan M (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey Dr.,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 4/30/
2014, $2,600.00, McConnell, Mitch (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los
Angeles, CA 90049, Jeffrey Ross Gunter MD
Inc., 7/18/2014, $2,600.00, Land, Terri Lynn (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los
Angeles, CA 90049, Jeffrey Ross Gunter MD
Inc., 7/18/2014, $2,600.00, Land, Terri Lynn (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los
Angeles, CA 90049, Jeffrey Ross Gunter MD
Inc., 7/18/2014, $2,600.00, Land, Terri Lynn (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los
Angeles, CA 90049, Jeffrey Ross Gunter MD
Inc., 7/18/2014, $2,600.00, Land, Terri Lynn (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los
Angeles, CA 90049, Physician, 10/8/2014,
$2,600.00, Strickland, Tory (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey
Ross, Los Angeles, CA 90049, Physician, 3/3/
2015, $2,700.00, Graham, Lindsey (R).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP6.035 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2237
April 3, 2019
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los
Angeles, CA 90049, Physician, 5/29/2015,
$2,700.00, Kirk, Mark (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los
Angeles, CA 90049, Physician, 5/29/2015,
$2,700.00, Kirk, Mark (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los
Angeles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 6/24/2015,
$900.00, Johnson, Ron (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey R,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Physician, 7/7/2015,
$2,700.00, Nunes, Devin (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey R,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/10/
2015, $1,500.00, Ayotte, Kelly (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey R,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/13/
2015, $900.00, Ayotte, Kelly (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los
Angeles, CA 90049, Av Dermatology, 3/30/2016,
$1,000.00, Heck, Joe (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey Mr.,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 5/31/
2016, $2,700.00, Trump, Donald (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey Mr.,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 5/31/
2016, $2,700.00, Trump, Donald (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey Ross
Mr., Los Angeles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 5/
31/2016, $19,600.00, Republican National Cmte
(R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/25/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Party of Illinois (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/25/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Party of Kansas (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/25/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Party of West Virginia
(R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/25/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Party of Wisconsin (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/25/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Party of North Dakota
(R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/25/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Party of California (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/25/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Party of Louisiana (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/25/2016,
$1,723.00, Missouri Republican State Cmte
(R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/25/2016,
$1,723.00, New York Republican Federal Cam-
paign Cmte (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/25/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Party of Virginia (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/25/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Party of Wyoming (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/25/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Party of Arkansas (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/25/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Party of Mississippi (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/25/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Federal Cmte of Penn-
sylvania (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey Ross
Mr., Los Angeles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 7/
25/2016, $13,800.00, Republican National Cmte
(R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey Mr.,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Physician, 7/27/2016,
$5,400.00, Cheney, Liz (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey Mr.,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Physician, 7/27/2016,
$2,700.00, Cheney, Liz (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey Mr.,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Physician, 7/27/2016,
$2,700.00, Cheney, Liz (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey Mr.
Ross Mr., Los Angeles, CA 90049, Dermatolo-
gist, 8/30/2016, $2,700.00, McCain, John (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 9/6/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Party of Alabama (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los
Angeles, CA 90049, Physician, 8/14/2016,
$2,700.00, Burr, Richard (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/11/2016,
$1,190.00, Republican Party of Mississippi (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/11/2016,
$1,190.00, Republican Party of Virginia (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/11/2016,
$1,190.00, Republican Party of California (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/11/2016,
$1,190.00, Republican Federal Cmte of Penn-
sylvania (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/11/2016,
$1,190.00, Republican Party of Illinois (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/11/2016,
$1,190.00, Republican Party of Kansas (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/11/2016,
$1,190.00, Republican Party of North Dakota
(R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/11/2016,
$1,190.00, Republican Party of Alabama (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/11/2016,
$1,190.00, Missouri Republican State Cmte
(R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/11/2016,
$1,190.00, Republican Party of West Virginia
(R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/11/2016,
$1,190.00, Republican Party of Wyoming (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/11/2016,
$1,190.00, Republican Party of Louisiana (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/11/2016,
$1,190.00, New York Republican Federal Cam-
paign Cmte (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/11/2016,
$1,190.00, Republican Party of Arkansas (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/11/2016,
$1,190.00, Republican Party of Wisconsin (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/17/2016,
$1,190.00, Connecticut Republican Campaign
Cmte (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/17/2016,
$1,190.00, Republican Party of South Carolina
(R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/17/2016,
$1,190.00, Republican Party of Minnesota (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/17/2016,
$1,190.00, Republican Party of North Carolina
(R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/17/2016,
$1,190.00, New Jersey Republican State Cmte
(R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Argyle
TX 76226, Retired, 10/17/2016, $2,380.00, Repub-
lican Party of Tennessee (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/27/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Party of North Carolina
(R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/27/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Party of Minnesota (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/27/2016,
$1,723.00, Connecticut Republican Campaign
Cmte (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/27/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Party of Tennessee (R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/27/2016,
$1,723.00, New Jersey Republican State Cmte
(R).
Money to Parties, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los An-
geles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 10/27/2016,
$1,723.00, Republican Party of South Carolina
(R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey R,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 12/20/
2016, $2,700.00, Royce, Ed (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey R,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 12/20/
2016, $2,700.00, Royce, Ed (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey R,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Physician, 12/21/2016,
$2,700.00, Nunes, Devin (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey R,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Physician, 12/21/2016,
$2,700.00, Nunes, Devin (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey, Los
Angeles, CA 90049, Physician, 4/24/2017,
$2,700.00, Granger, Kay (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeff Dr., Los
Angeles, CA 90049, Jeff Gunter MD, 6/2/2017,
$2,700.00, McHenry, Patrick (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey R,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 9/12/
2017, $2,700.00, Royce, Ed (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey R,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Dermatologist, 9/12/
2017, $2,700.00, Royce, Ed (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey R,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Doctor, 9/30/2017,
$2,700.00, Hawley, Josh (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeffrey R,
Los Angeles, CA 90049, Doctor, 9/30/2017,
$2,700.00, Hawley, Josh (R).
Money to Candidates, Gunter, Jeff Dr., Los
Angeles, CA 90049, Jeff Gunter MD, 11/13/2017,
$2,700.00, McHenry, Patrick (R).
Total: $177,563.00.
Ronald Douglas Johnson, of Florida, to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of America
to the Republic of El Salvador.
Nominee: Ronald Douglas Johnson.
Post: Ambassador, Republic of El Salvador.
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
Contributions, amount, date, and donee:
1. Self: None.
2. Spouse: None.
3. Children and Spouses: Robert Todd
Johnson, None; Lori Ann Johnson, None; Mi-
chael Todd Johnson, None; Joshua Lee John-
son, None.
4. Parents: Irvin T. Johnson—Deceased; Be-
atrice Johnson, None.
5. Grandparents: Herbert Johnson—De-
ceased; Ida Mae Johnson—deceased.
6. Brothers and Sisters: James H. John-
son—Deceased; Priscilla Jones, None; Chris
Jones.
W. Patrick Murphy, of Vermont, a Career
Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class
of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the Kingdom of
Cambodia.
Nominee: (Warren) Patrick Murphy, Jr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP6.060 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2238 April 3, 2019
Post: Cambodia.
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
Contributions, amount, date, and donee:
1. Self: none.
2. Spouse: Kathleen M. Norman: none.
3. Children and Spouses: Seamus B. Mur-
phy, none; Meghan V. Murphy, none; Gillian
L. Murphy, none.
4. Parents: Warren P. Murphy, Sr., none;
Margaret R. Murphy, none.
5. Grandparents: Robert Murphy—de-
ceased; Theresa Murphy—deceased; George
Albert—deceased; Alice Albert—deceased.
6. Brothers and Spouses: Christopher A.
Murphy, none; Andrew F. Murphy, none.
7. Sisters and Spouses: Jennifer Murphy—
deceased.
Daniel N. Rosenblum, of Maryland, a Ca-
reer Member of the Senior Executive Serv-
ice, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary of the United States of
America to the Republic of Uzbekistan.
Nominee: Daniel N. Rosenblum.
Post: Republic of Uzbekistan.
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
Contribution, amount, date, and donee:
1. Self: None, N/A, N/A.
2. Spouse, $2,700, 2/21 & 3/14 2016, Hillary for
America (Primary); $1,750, 7/5 & 9/18 2016, Hil-
lary Victory Fund (Primary); $1,675, 7/5, 8/17
& 9/30/2016, Hillary for America (General);
$1,000, 9/18/2016, Hillary Victory Fund (Gen-
eral); $250, 12/23/2017, Tammy Baldwin for
Senate; $250, 2/8/2018, Soderberg for Congress.
3. Children: Jonah Rosenblum: None, N/A,
N/A; Liana Rosenblum: None N/A, N/A.
4. Parents: Louis Rosenblum: None, N/A, N/
A.
5. Grandparents: Deceased.
6. Brothers and Spouses: None.
7. Sisters and Spouses: Janet Metz: None,
N/A, N/A; Miriam Rosenblum: None, N/A, N/
A; Sheldon Benjamin: None, N/A, N/A; Diane
Rosenblum: $500 (total), 7 periodic contribs.
between 12/20/15 and 5/7/16, Bernie 2016; $86
(total), 16 contribs. between 12/29/15 and 10/11/
18, Act Blue; $50 (total), 9/28 & 9/30/16, Ameri-
cans for Responsible Solutions PAC; $165
(total), 5 periodic contribs. between 10/16/16
and 11/5/16, Deborah Ross for United States
Senate; $150 (total), 5 periodic contribs. be-
tween 10/17/16 and 11/5/16, Russ for Wisconsin;
$150 (total), 4 periodic contribs. between 11/
15/16 and 12/3/16, Foster Campbell for United
States Senate; $15, 2/8/17, Elizabeth for MA,
Inc.; $40 (total), 4/13 & 4/17, Jon Osoff for Con-
gress; $50, 7/6/17, Friends of Bernie Sanders;
$75 (total), 8/3/17, 5/3/18 & 6/28/18, Amy
McGrath for Congress; $110 (total), 4 periodic
contribs. between 12/7/17 & 8/5/18, Doug Jones
for Senate; $80 (total), 1/29/18, 4/22/18 & 5/14/18,
Kamala Harris for Senate; $35 (total), 2/17/18
& 6/27/18, Friends of Maria; $65 (total), 5/26/18,
7/25/18 & 9/2/18, Courage Campaign PAC; $1250,
6/30/18, Sinema for Arizona; $190, 8/3/18, An-
drew Janz for Congress; $12.50, 8/5/18, O’Con-
nor for Congress; $50, 8/9/18, Harder for Con-
gress; $100 (total), 8/9/18, 9/23/18 & 10/17/18, Jes-
sica Morse for Congress; $50, 8/16/18, Audrey
Denny for Congress; $75 (total), 10/5/18 & 10/24/
18, Heidi for Senate; $205 (total), 6 periodic
contribs. between 10/6/ & 11/4/18, Rosen for
Nevada; $20, 10/11/18, Linda Coleman for Con-
gress; $20, 10/11/18, Friends of Lucy Mcbath;
$20, 10/11/18, Lauren Underwood for Congress.
Henry Gordon: $258 (total), 20 periodic
contribs. between 4/30/15 & 10/5/18, Act Blue;
$2.50, 5/25/16, Progressive Change; $1,007 (ttl.),
28 periodic contribs. between 4/30/15 & 5/25/16,
Bernie 2016; $55.19 (ttl.), 4 periodic contribs
between 1/21/16 & 10/21/16, Russ for Wisconsin;
$27.69 (ttl.), 1/21/16 & 10/21/16, Catherine Cor-
tez Masto for Senate; $47.50 (ttl.), 4 periodic
contribs between 4/13/16 & 10/21/16, Flores for
Congress; $35.19 (ttl.), 3 periodic contribs be-
tween 4/13/16 & 10/21/16, Pramila for Congress;
$35.20, 3 periodic contribs between 4/13/16 &
10/21/16, Zephyr Teachout for Congress; $27.70
(ttl.), 10/21 & 23/16, Deborah Ross Senate;
$7.69, 10/21/16, Clements for Congress; $7.69, 10/
21/16, Commimttee to Elect Chase Iron Eyes;
$7.69, 10/21/16, Nolan for Congress Volunteer
Committee; $7.69, 10/21/16, Berragan for Con-
gress; $7.69, 10/21/16, Maggie for NH; $7.69, 10/
21/16, Carroll for Colorado; $7.69, 10/21/16, Nel-
son for Wisconsin; $7.69, 10/21/16, Katie
McGinty Senate; $10, 10/5/18, Heidi for Sen-
ate.
Donald R. Tapia, of Arizona, to be Ambas-
sador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
the United States of America to Jamaica.
Nominee: Donald Ray Tapia.
Post: Ambassador to Jamaica.
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
Contributions, amount, date, and donee:
Capito For West Virginia, $5,200, 3/25/2013;
Flake PAC, $5,000, 4/02/2013; Andrew Walter
For Congress, $2,600, 8/26/2013; Andrew Tobin
For Congress, $2,600, 10/28/2013; National Rep
Senatorial Com, $15,000, 10/31/13; National
Rep Senatorial Com, $6,413, 11/07/13; NRSC,
$15,000, 11/02/2013; Jeff Flake For Senate,
$5,200, 11/19/2013; RNC, $70,000, 2014; Tom Cot-
ton For Senate, $5,200, 3/19/2014; Flake PAC,
$5,000, 3/31/2014; Corey Gardner For Senate,
$5,200, 6/06/2014; Andy Tobin For Congress,
$2,700, 4/20/2015; Marco Rubio for President,
$2,700, 4/21/2015; Portman For Senate, $2,700,
4/24/2015; Salmon For Congress, $2,700, 6/10/
2015; Carly For President, $2,700, 8/26/2015; Joe
Heck For Senate, $2,700, 9/18/2015; Marco
Rubio For President, $2,700, 11/03/2015; Chris
Christie For President, $2,700, 11/25/2015;
Marco Rubio For President, $2,700, 12/10/2015;
Conservative Solutions PAC, $50,000, 2/22/2016;
Biggs For Congress, $2,500, 3/31/2016; Friends
of John McCain, $5,400, 5/03/2016; Trump Vic-
tory, $25,000, 6/14/2016; Trump Victory, $25,000,
6/28/2016; Volunteers For Nehlen, $1,000, 7/10/
2016; Trump Victory, $25,000, 8/03/2016; Ken
Bennett For Congress, $2,500, 8/12/2016;
Kiehne For Congress, $2,500, 8/18/2016; Marco
Rubio For Senate, $2,700, 9/24/2016; Marco
Rubio For Senate, $2,700, 9/24/2016; Paul
Babeu For Congress, $5,000, 9/24/2016; Winning
Women’s Committee, $10,000, 9/29/2016; Trump
Victory, $25,000, 10/12/2016; Trump Victory,
$5,000, 11/01/2016; Trump Make America Great,
$752, 11/26/2016; Comstock For Congress, $966,
12/08/2016; Josh Mandel For Senate, $5,400, 2/
08/2017; Regan, $5,100, 3/7/17; Marsha Black-
burn Victory Fund, $5,400, 3/30/2017; Roger
Wicker For Senate, $5,400, 4/05/2017; Paul
Ryan, $5,400, 4/25/17; Team Ryan, $12,500, 4/25/
17; NRCC, $7,100, 4/25/17; RGA, $25,000, 5/5/17;
AZ Republican Party, $25,000, 5/12/17; George
P. Bush, $5,000, 6/29/17, Steve Smith For Con-
gress, $5,400, 6/26/2017; RGA, $25,000, 9/25/17;
Trump Victory, $94,600, 10/3/2017; Donald
Trump For President, $5,400, 10/06/2017; RNC,
$94,600, 10/06/2017; Jeff Flake, $2,600, 11/7/17;
Steve Ferrara, $5,000, 11/8/17; RGA, $25,000, 12/
6/17; Martha McSally, $5,400, 1/19/18; Moses
Sanchez, $3,175, 2/7/18; Matt Rosendale, $2,700,
2/14/18; Andy Biggs, $2,700, 2/22/18; Schweikert,
$5,000, 3/29/18; Schweikert Victory, $5,000, 3/29/
18; Rick Scott, $5,400, 4/5/18; RAGA, $1,569.77,
4/11/18; Debbie Lesko, $2,700, 4/13/18; NRSC,
$24,700, 5/13/18; Justin Olson, $2,000, 5/25/18.
1. Spouse: N/A.
2. Children and Spouses: Tim & Sheri
Tapia, None; Londa & Will Perkins, None.
3. Parents: Jessie Joseph Tapia—Deceased;
Constance Geraldine Snapp—Deceased.
4. Grandparents: Thorthon Snapp—De-
ceased; Myrtle Snapp—Deceased; Maria Me-
dina Tapia—Deceased.
5. Brothers and Spouses: N/A.
6. Sisters and Spouses: Jessie Jane Cordell,
None.
Kip Tom, of Indiana, for the rank of Am-
bassador during his tenure of service as U.S.
Representative to the United Nations Agen-
cies for Food and Agriculture.
Nominee: Kip Tom.
Post: U.S. Ambassador to the UN.
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
Contributions, amount, date and donee:
1. Self: $150,000, Apr–2016, Kip Tom for Con-
gress; $1,000, Dec–2017, Steve Braun for Con-
gress; $1,000, Jun–2016, Roger Marshall for
Congress; $2,300, Jun–2016, Growth Energy
PAC; $5,400, Mar–2015, Todd Young for Sen-
ate; $5,400, Jun–2016, Todd Young for Senate;
$1,000, Apr–2014, Todd Rokita for Congress;
$1,876.07, Aug–2014, Jackie Walorski for Con-
gress; $1,500, Sep–2016, Todd Young Victory
Fund; $1,500, Oct–2015, Ind. Republican Fund;
$1,000 Oct–2017, Kyle Dukes for Sheriff.
2. Spouse: None.
3. Children and Spouses: Kyle and Angie
Tom: $5,400, Sep–2015, Kip Tom For Congress;
Mark and Kandi Dunwiddie: $5,400, Sep–2015,
Kip Tom For Congress; Greg and Kassi Row-
land; $5,400, Sep–2015, Kip Tom For Congress;
Kris Tom: $2,700, Sep–2015, Kip Tom For Con-
gress; Jon and Katie Fussel: $5,400, Sep–2015,
Kip Tom for Congress.
4. Parents: Everett and Marie Tom: $5,400,
Sep–2015, Kip Tom For Congress.
5. Grandparents: Everett and Violet Tom—
deceased; Ellis and Francis Eby—deceased.
6. Brothers and Spouses: Kevin Tom—de-
ceased.
7. Sisters and Spouses: Melinda and Russell
Woda: $5,400, Nov–2015, Kip Tom for Congress;
Melodie and Scott Thompson: $1,000, Oct–
2015, Kip Tom for Congress; Melissa and Ray
Gerber: none.
Matthew H. Tueller, of Utah, a Career
Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class
of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Ex-
traordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
United States of America to the Republic of
Iraq.
Nominee: Matthew H. Tueller.
Post: Iraq.
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
Contributions, amount, date, and donee:
1. Self: none.
2. Spouse: DeNeece G. Tueller: none.
3. Children and Spouses: Marie Amara
Tueller: none; Kyle Newkirk: none; Margaret
Tueller Proffitt: none; Clark Proffitt: none;
David G. Tueller: none; Ayae T. Tueller:
none; Daniel B. Tueller: none; Christian M.
Tueller: none.
4. Parents: Blaine C. Tueller, none; Jean
Marie H. Tueller, none.
5. Grandparents: Lamont Tueller—de-
ceased; Elva C. Tueller—deceased; Leland
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:36 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP6.047 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2239
April 3, 2019
Heywood—deceased; Marie E. Heywood—de-
ceased.
6. Brothers and Spouses: James B. Tueller,
none; Beth D. Tueller, none.
7. Sisters and Spouses: Jan T. Lowman,
none; Winfield N. Lowman, none; Anna T.
Stone, none; Bernell Stone, none; Marie T.
Emmett, none; Chad Emmett, none; Diane T.
Pritchett, none; Lant H. Pritichett, none;
Martha T. Barrett, $150, 03/2016, Bernie 2016;
Jeff Barrett, $150, 03/2016, ActBlue; Elisabeth
T. Dearden, none; Kirk Dearden, none; Ra-
chel Tueller, none; Jeanne T. Krumperman,
none; Paul Krumperman, none.
Robert K. Scott, of Maryland, a Career
Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class
of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraor-
dinary and Plenipotentiary of the United
States of America to the Republic of Malawi.
Nominee: Robert K. Scott.
Post: Malawi.
(The following is a list of all members of
my immediate family and their spouses. I
have asked each of these persons to inform
me of the pertinent contributions made by
them. To the best of my knowledge, the in-
formation contained in this report is com-
plete and accurate.)
Contributions, amount, date, and donee:
1. Self: None.
2. Spouse: None.
3. Children and Spouses: Jennifer Anne
Scott: None. Nicolas Kennet Scott: None.
4. Parents: Deceased.
5 Grandparents: Deceased.
6. Brothers and Spouses: Neil and Cindy
Scott, $100. 2016 H. Clinton.
7. Sisters and Spouses: Leslie and David
Loomis, None. Pat and Carl Napor, None.
Carol and Konstantin Magalow, None.
John Barsa, of Florida, to be an Assistant
Administrator of the United States Agency
for International Development.
R. Clarke Cooper, of Florida, to be an As-
sistant Secretary of State (Political-Mili-
tary Affairs).
Jane L. Corwin, of New York, to be Com-
missioner on the part of the United States
on the International Joint Commission,
United States and Canada.
Brett P. Giroir, of Texas, to be Representa-
tive of the United States on the Executive
Board of the World Health Organization.
Mark Rosen, of Connecticut, to be United
States Executive Director of the Inter-
national Monetary Fund for a term of two
years.
Robert C. Sisson, of Michigan, to be Com-
missioner on the part of the United States
on the International Joint Commission,
United States and Canada.
David Stilwell, of Hawaii, to be an Assist-
ant Secretary of State (East Asian and Pa-
cific Affairs).
Lance V. Yohe, of North Dakota, to be
Commissioner on the part of the United
States on the International Joint Commis-
sion, United States and Canada.
Keith Krach, of California, to be an Under
Secretary of State (Economic Growth, En-
ergy, and the Environment).
Keith Krach, of California, to be United
States Alternate Governor of the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
Keith Krach, of California, to be United
States Alternate Governor of the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Devel-
opment for a term of five years; United
States Alternate Governor of the Inter-
American Development Bank for a term of
five years.
By Mr. WICKER for the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
* Ann Marie Buerkle, of New York, to be a
Commissioner of the Consumer Product
Safety Commission for a term of seven years
from October 27, 2018.
* Ann Marie Buerkle, of New York, to be
Chairman of the Consumer Product Safety
Commission.
* Rick A. Dearborn, of Oklahoma, to be a
Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors
for a term of five years.
* Diana Furchtgott-Roth, of Maryland, to
be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation.
* Joseph Ryan Gruters, of Florida, to be a
Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors
for a term of five years.
* Heidi R. King, of California, to be Admin-
istrator of the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration.
* Barry Lee Myers, of Pennsylvania, to be
Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and
Atmosphere.
* Leon A. Westmoreland, of Georgia, to be
a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors
for a term of five years.
* Coast Guard nominations beginning with
Capt. Brendan C. McPherson and ending with
Capt. Todd C. Wiemers, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record on January 30,
2019.
* Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mr. KING, Mr. DAINES, Mr. MUR-
PHY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MENENDEZ, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. JONES,
Mr. TESTER, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
BOOKER, and Mrs. SHAHEEN):
S. 997. A bill to recognize and honor the
service of individuals who served in the
United States Cadet Nurse Corps during
World War II, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. HAWLEY (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. TILLIS, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. LEAHY, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
COTTON, Mr. CORNYN, Ms. HIRONO, and
Mr. SCOTT of Florida):
S. 998. A bill to amend the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to ex-
pand support for police officer family serv-
ices, stress reduction, and suicide preven-
tion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. COONS (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, Mrs. CAPITO, and Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR):
S. 999. A bill to provide for Federal coordi-
nation of activities supporting sustainable
chemistry, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of Florida):
S. 1000. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow the designation of
opportunity zones for population census
tracts affected by Hurricane Florence, Hurri-
cane Michael, and the Mendocino, Carr,
Camp, Woolsey, and Hill wildfires; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Mr.
ROUNDS):
S. 1001. A bill to amend the Indian Health
Care Improvement Act to allow the Indian
Health Service to cover the cost of a copay-
ment of an Indian or Alaska Native veteran
receiving medical care or services from the
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Indian
Affairs.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Ms.
STABENOW, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
SCHATZ, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 1002. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 in order to increase usage
of the Federal student loan income-based re-
payment plan and improve repayment op-
tions for borrowers, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Ms.
HASSAN):
S. 1003. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to establish the Veterans Eco-
nomic Opportunity and Transition Adminis-
tration and the Under Secretary for Vet-
erans Economic Opportunity and Transition
of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
CORNYN):
S. 1004. A bill to increase the number of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection Office of
Field Operations officers and support staff
and to require reports that identify staffing,
infrastructure, and equipment needed to en-
hance security at ports of entry; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Ms. WARREN:
S. 1005. A bill to stop financial institution
crime, require certain officers of companies
to certify that they have conducted due dili-
gence relating to criminal conduct or civil
fraud, create accountability in deferred pros-
ecution agreements, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr.
REED, Mr. MERKLEY, and Ms. WAR-
REN):
S. 1006. A bill to amend the Truth in Lend-
ing Act to empower the States to set the
maximum annual percentage rates applica-
ble to consumer credit transactions, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. CRAPO (for himself, Mr. WAR-
NER, Ms. COLLINS, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MORAN, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. CASEY, Mr. WYDEN, Mr.
DAINES, and Mr. TOOMEY):
S. 1007. A bill to amend the Horse Protec-
tion Act to designate additional unlawful
acts under the Act, strengthen penalties for
violations of the Act, improve Department of
Agriculture enforcement of the Act, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. SULLIVAN, Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI, and Mr. CASSIDY):
S. 1008. A bill to amend and enhance the
High Seas Driftnet Fishing Moratorium Pro-
tection Act to improve the conservation of
sharks, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself and Mr.
CASSIDY):
S. 1009. A bill to establish a demonstration
program to explore effective practices to im-
prove early detection and management of in-
juries indicative of potential abuse in infants
under the age of 7 months, in order to pre-
vent future cases of child abuse and related
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP6.058 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2240 April 3, 2019
fatalities; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. WARREN:
S. 1010. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to establish criminal liability
for negligent executive officers of major cor-
porations, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr.
YOUNG, and Mr. JONES):
S. 1011. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 and the Employee Retire-
ment Income Security Act of 1974 to modify
the requirements for multiple employer
plans, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mrs.
CAPITO, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Ms. HARRIS,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr.
KING, Mr. TILLIS, Ms. COLLINS, Mr.
CASSIDY, and Mr. CRAMER):
S. 1012. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to protect the confidentiality of
substance use disorder patient records; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Ms. STABENOW (for herself and
Mrs. CAPITO):
S. 1013. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to reauthorize school-based
health centers, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and
Mr. INHOFE):
S. 1014. A bill to establish the Route 66
Centennial Commission, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
By Mr. BURR (for himself and Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR):
S. 1015. A bill to require the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget to review
and make certain revisions to the Standard
Occupational Classification System, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself and Mr.
BOOZMAN):
S. 1016. A bill to prohibit the sale food that
is, or contains, unsafe poppy seeds; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Mr.
KAINE):
S. 1017. A bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 in order to address the needs
of caregivers, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. JONES, and Mr. COTTON):
S. 1018. A bill to establish the Refund to
Rainy Day Savings Program; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. JONES (for himself, Mr. COT-
TON, Mr. BOOKER, and Mr. YOUNG):
S. 1019. A bill to allow employers to offer
short-term savings accounts with automatic
contribution arrangements for financial
emergencies; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. BOOK-
ER, Mr. COTTON, and Mr. JONES):
S. 1020. A bill to provide for an additional
nondiscrimination safe harbor for automatic
contribution arrangements; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. MCCONNELL:
S. 1021. A bill to amend the Intermodal
Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of
1991 with respect to a portion of the Wendell
H. Ford (Western Kentucky) Parkway, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. WARREN,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. REED,
Mr. SANDERS, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. BEN-
NET, Ms. SMITH, and Ms. KLOBUCHAR):
S. 1022. A bill to clarify the effect of cer-
tain final rules and determinations of the
Environmental Protection Agency relating
to greenhouse gas emissions standards for
light-duty vehicles; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
By Ms. STABENOW (for herself, Mr.
PETERS, and Mr. CASEY):
S. 1023. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to furnish hospital care and
medical services to veterans, members of the
reserve components of the Armed Forces,
and dependents who were stationed at mili-
tary installations at which they were ex-
posed to perfluorooctanoic acid or other per-
and polyfluoroalkyl substances, to provide
for a presumption of service connection for
those veterans and members of the reserve
components, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. STABENOW (for herself and
Mr. PETERS):
S. 1024. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to furnish hospital care and
medical services to veterans, members of the
reserve components of the Armed Forces,
and dependents who were stationed at
Wurtsmith Air Force Base in Oscoda, Michi-
gan, and were exposed to volatile organic
compounds, to provide for a presumption of
service connection for those veterans and
members of the reserve components, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. DURBIN, Mr. CRUZ, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. KAINE, Mr.
YOUNG, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. GRAHAM,
Mr. BENNET, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr.
COONS, Mr. CASSIDY, and Mr.
HAWLEY):
S. 1025. A bill to provide humanitarian re-
lief to the Venezuelan people and Venezuelan
migrants, to advance a constitutional and
democratic solution to Venezuela’s political
crisis, to address Venezuela’s economic re-
construction, to combat public corruption,
narcotics trafficking, and money laundering,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
COONS):
S. Res. 140. A resolution urging the estab-
lishment of a Cyber League of Indo-Pacific
States to address cyber threats; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 151
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
names of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Mr. JOHNSON), the Senator from Flor-
ida (Mr. SCOTT), the Senator from Iowa
(Mr. GRASSLEY), the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. CARPER), the Senator
from New Jersey (Mr. MENENDEZ), the
Senator from Ohio (Mr. BROWN) and the
Senator from Montana (Mr. DAINES)
were added as cosponsors of S. 151, a
bill to deter criminal robocall viola-
tions and improve enforcement of sec-
tion 227(b) of the Communications Act
of 1934, and for other purposes.
S. 169
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
169, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide an exemp-
tion from gross income for civil dam-
ages as recompense for trafficking in
persons.
S. 179
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 179, a bill to direct the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry
out a clinical trial of the effects of can-
nabis on certain health outcomes of
adults with chronic pain and post-trau-
matic stress disorder, and for other
purposes.
S. 192
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 192, a bill to provide ex-
tensions for community health centers,
the National Health Service Corps,
teaching health centers that operate
GME programs, and the special diabe-
tes programs.
At the request of Mr. ALEXANDER, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 192, supra.
S. 206
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 206, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal to the female tele-
phone operators of the Army Signal
Corps, known as the ‘‘Hello Girls’’.
S. 209
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 209, a bill to amend the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assist-
ance Act to provide further self-govern-
ance by Indian Tribes, and for other
purposes.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 362, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to reform tax-
ation of alcoholic beverages.
S. 427
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) and the Senator from
Montana (Mr. DAINES) were added as
cosponsors of S. 427, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act to enhance
activities of the National Institutes of
Health with respect to research on au-
tism spectrum disorder and enhance
programs relating to autism, and for
other purposes.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP6.039 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2241
April 3, 2019
ROBERTS) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 433, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve home
health payment reforms under the
Medicare program.
S. 595
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of S.
595, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for the
coordination of programs to prevent
and treat obesity, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 659
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 659, a bill to provide for certain
additional requirements with respect
to patent disclosures.
S. 679
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO), the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER), the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS) and the Senator
from Arkansas (Mr. BOOZMAN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 679, a bill to
exempt from the calculation of month-
ly income certain benefit paid by the
Department of Veterans Affairs and
the Department of Defense.
S. 692
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. BURR) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 692, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal the
excise tax on medical devices.
S. 696
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 696, a bill to designate the same
individual serving as the Chief Nurse
Officer of the Public Health Service as
the National Nurse for Public Health.
S. 727
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) and the Senator from
Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY) were added
as cosponsors of S. 727, a bill to combat
international extremism by addressing
global fragility and violence and stabi-
lizing conflict-affected areas, and for
other purposes.
S. 821
At the request of Mr. CRAMER, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 821, a bill to amend the Federal
Reserve Act to prohibit certain mem-
ber banks from using discount window
lending programs, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 827
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from New Jer-
sey (Mr. BOOKER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 827, a bill to designate
certain National Forest System land
and certain public land under the juris-
diction of the Secretary of the Interior
in the States of Idaho, Montana, Or-
egon, Washington, and Wyoming as
wilderness, wild and scenic rivers,
wildland recovery areas, and biological
connecting corridors, and for other
purposes.
S. 846
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
names of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) and the Senator from
Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS) were added as
cosponsors of S. 846, a bill to amend
title 49, United States Code, to limit
certain rolling stock procurements,
and for other purposes.
S. 861
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) and the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) were added as cosponsors
of S. 861, a bill to establish in the Bu-
reau of Democracy, Human Rights, and
Labor of the Department of State a
Special Envoy for the Human Rights of
LGBTI Peoples, and for other purposes.
S. 893
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 893, a bill to require the
President to develop a strategy to en-
sure the security of next generation
mobile telecommunications systems
and infrastructure in the United States
and to assist allies and strategic part-
ners in maximizing the security of next
generation mobile telecommunications
systems, infrastructure, and software,
and for other purposes.
S. 909
At the request of Mr. SASSE, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
909, a bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, with respect to the judi-
cial review of agency interpretations of
statutory and regulatory provisions.
S. 910
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 910, a bill to reauthorize and
amend the National Sea Grant College
Program Act, and for other purposes.
S. 919
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
919, a bill to reduce regulatory burdens
and streamline processes related to
commercial space activities, and for
other purposes.
S. 993
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) and the Senator
from Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 993, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend
certain tax credits related to electric
cars, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 85
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) and the Senator
from Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 85, a res-
olution recognizing the 100th anniver-
sary of the founding of Easterseals, a
leading advocate and service provider
for children and adults with disabil-
ities, including veterans and older
adults, and their caregivers and fami-
lies.
S. RES. 112
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 112, a resolution expressing
the sense of the Senate that the United
States condemns all forms of violence
against children globally and recog-
nizes the harmful impacts of violence
against children.
S. RES. 123
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. YOUNG) and the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. CARDIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. Res. 123, a resolution
supporting the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and recognizing its 70
years of accomplishments.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. THUNE (for himself and
Mr. ROUNDS):
S. 1001. A bill to amend the Indian
Health Care Improvement Act to allow
the Indian Health Service to cover the
cost of a copayment of an Indian or
Alaska Native veteran receiving med-
ical care or services from the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Indian
Affairs.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1001
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Tribal Vet-
erans Health Care Enhancement Act’’.
SEC. 2. LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT.
Section 222 of the Indian Health Care Im-
provement Act (25 U.S.C. 1621u) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(d) VETERANS AFFAIRS COPAYMENTS.—The
Service may pay, in accordance with section
412, the cost of a copayment assessed by the
Department of Veterans Affairs to an eligi-
ble Indian veteran (as defined in section 412)
for covered medical care (as defined in such
section).’’.
SEC. 3. COPAYMENTS FOR TRIBAL VETERANS RE-
CEIVING CERTAIN MEDICAL SERV-
ICES.
Title IV of the Indian Health Care Im-
provement Act (25 U.S.C. 1641 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 412. PAYMENTS FOR ELIGIBLE INDIAN VET-
ERANS RECEIVING COVERED MED-
ICAL CARE AT VA FACILITIES.
‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS.—The term ‘appropriate committees
of Congress’ means—
‘‘(A) in the Senate—
‘‘(i) the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs;
and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP6.043 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2242 April 3, 2019
‘‘(ii) the Committee on Indian Affairs; and
‘‘(B) in the House of Representatives—
‘‘(i) the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs;
and
‘‘(ii) the Committee on Natural Resources.
‘‘(2) COVERED MEDICAL CARE.—The term
‘covered medical care’ means any medical
care or service that is—
‘‘(A) authorized for an eligible Indian vet-
eran under the contract health service and
referred by the Service; and
‘‘(B) administered at a facility of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs, including any
services rendered under a contract with a
non-Department of Veterans Affairs health
care provider.
‘‘(3) ELIGIBLE INDIAN VETERAN.—The term
‘eligible Indian veteran’ means an Indian or
Alaska Native veteran who is eligible for as-
sistance from the Service.
‘‘(b) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, except as provided in
paragraph (3), the Secretary (or a designee,
including the director of any area office of
the Service), the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs (or a designee), and any tribal health
program, as applicable, shall enter into a
memorandum of understanding, in consulta-
tion with Indian tribes to be impacted by the
memorandum of understanding (on a na-
tional or regional basis), that authorizes the
Secretary or tribal health program, as appli-
cable, to pay to the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs any copayments owed to the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs by eligible Indian
veterans for covered medical care.
‘‘(2) FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION.—In en-
tering into a memorandum of understanding
under paragraph (1), the Secretary, the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, and any tribal
health program, as applicable, shall take
into consideration any findings contained in
the report under subsection (e).
‘‘(3) EXCEPTION.—The Secretary, the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs, and any tribal
health program, as applicable, shall not be
required to enter into a memorandum of un-
derstanding under paragraph (1) if the Sec-
retary, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs,
and any tribal health program, as applicable,
jointly certify to the appropriate commit-
tees of Congress that such a memorandum of
understanding would—
‘‘(A) decrease the quality of health care
provided to eligible Indian veterans;
‘‘(B) impede the access of those veterans to
health care; or
‘‘(C) substantially decrease the quality of,
or access to, health care by individuals re-
ceiving health care from the Department of
Veterans Affairs or beneficiaries of the Serv-
ice.
‘‘(c) PAYMENT BY SERVICE.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of law and in
accordance with the relevant memorandum
of understanding described in subsection (b),
the Service may cover the cost of any copay-
ment assessed by the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs to an eligible Indian veteran re-
ceiving covered medical care.
‘‘(d) AUTHORIZATION TO ACCEPT FUNDS.—
Notwithstanding section 407(c), section
2901(b) of the Patient Protection and Afford-
able Care Act (25 U.S.C. 1623(b)), or any other
provision of law, and in accordance with the
relevant memorandum of understanding de-
scribed in subsection (b), the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs may accept a payment from
the Service under subsection (c).
‘‘(e) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of enactment of this section, the
Secretary and the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs shall submit to the appropriate com-
mittees of Congress a report that describes—
‘‘(1) the number of veterans, disaggregated
by State, who—
‘‘(A) are eligible for assistance from the
Service; and
‘‘(B) have received health care at a medical
facility of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs;
‘‘(2) the number of veterans, disaggregated
by State and calendar year, who—
‘‘(A) are eligible for assistance from the
Service; and
‘‘(B) were referred to a medical facility of
the Department of Veterans Affairs from a
facility of the Service during the period—
‘‘(i) beginning on January 1, 2013; and
‘‘(ii) ending on December 31, 2018; and
‘‘(3) an update regarding efforts of the Sec-
retary and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
to streamline health care for veterans who
are eligible for assistance from the Service
and have received health care at a medical
facility of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs and at a facility of the Service, includ-
ing a description of—
‘‘(A) any changes to the provision of health
care required under this Act; and
‘‘(B) any barriers to efficiently streamline
the provision of health care to veterans who
are eligible for assistance from the Serv-
ice.’’.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself and
Mr. KAINE):
S. 1017. A bill to amend the Older
Americans Act of 1965 in order to ad-
dress the needs of caregivers, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1017
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Supporting
America’s Caregivers and Families Act’’.
SEC. 2. ADDRESSING THE NEEDS OF CARE-
GIVERS.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR
FAMILY CAREGIVER SUPPORT.—Section 303(e)
of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3023(e)) is amended by striking ‘‘$154,336,482’’
and all that follows through the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘$360,000,000 for each of
fiscal years 2020 through 2024’’.
(b) IMPROVING CAREGIVER ASSESSMENT.—
(1) INCREASING USE OF CAREGIVER ASSESS-
MENT TOOLS.—Section 202 of the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3012) is amended
by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(h) By not later than January 1, 2021, the
Assistant Secretary shall—
‘‘(1) in consultation with caregivers, older
individuals, the aging network, and other ex-
perts and stakeholders, develop and imple-
ment a strategy to increase the use of com-
prehensive caregiver assessment tools that—
‘‘(A) are standardized across a planning
and service area;
‘‘(B) assess the specific problems, needs,
strengths, and resources of caregivers—
‘‘(i) as identified by a recognized caregiver,
as appropriate, through voluntary participa-
tion;
‘‘(ii) through direct contact with the care-
giver, which may include in-person, phone,
or online contact; and
‘‘(iii) at appropriate intervals, including to
accommodate significant changes in the
caregiving situation;
‘‘(C) determine whether a caregiver would
benefit from support services; and
‘‘(D) lead to providing targeted caregiver
support services to best benefit caregivers,
where appropriate and available based upon
identified unmet needs, including through
referrals;
‘‘(2) conduct a study on the best practices
and potential considerations regarding man-
datory use of comprehensive caregiver as-
sessment tools standardized across a plan-
ning and service area by an area agency on
aging, which shall examine—
‘‘(A) the current use of caregiver assess-
ments, as of the date of the study;
‘‘(B) the efficacy and feasibility of manda-
tory use of comprehensive caregiver assess-
ment tools standardized across a planning
and service area, including the value to care-
givers and the older individuals to whom
they provide care; and
‘‘(C) the potential impact on the aging net-
work of using such assessments; and
‘‘(3) prepare and submit to Congress a re-
port regarding the study under paragraph (2)
that provides recommendations for the ap-
propriate use of comprehensive caregiver as-
sessments standardized across a planning
and service area by an area agency on aging,
and a proposed budget, based on the Assist-
ant Secretary’s professional judgment, for
appropriately implementing the rec-
ommendations.’’.
(2) ASSESSING NEEDS OF CAREGIVERS.—Sec-
tion 373(e)(3) of the Older Americans Act of
1965 (42 U.S.C. 3030s–1(e)(3)) is amended by in-
serting ‘‘assess the needs of family care-
givers or older relative caregivers and’’ be-
fore ‘‘provide’’.
(3) FAMILY CAREGIVER RESOURCE CENTER
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—Section 202(b) of
the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3012(b)) is amended—
(A) in paragraph (10), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(B) by redesignating paragraph (11) as
paragraph (12); and
(C) by inserting after paragraph (10) the
following:
‘‘(11) establish and operate the National
Family Caregiver Resource and Technical
Assistance Center, which will—
‘‘(A) by grant or contract with a public or
private nonprofit entity, provide informa-
tion and assistance to State agencies, area
agencies on aging, and community-based
service providers funded under this Act, in-
cluding—
‘‘(i) through technical assistance, research,
training, program analysis, and data collec-
tion;
‘‘(ii) activities described in section
411(a)(11); and
‘‘(iii) dissemination of best practices, in-
cluding best practices for conducting assess-
ments of caregiver needs using comprehen-
sive assessment tools standardized across a
planning and service area; and
‘‘(B) directly or through grant or contract,
provide information, education, and assist-
ance to family caregivers in a manner that is
accessible and understandable to the family
caregivers.’’.
(c) BUSINESS ACUMEN PROVISIONS.—
(1) ASSISTANCE RELATING TO GROWING AND
SUSTAINING CAPACITY.—Section 202(b)(9) of
the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C.
3012(b)(9)) is amended—
(A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon;
(B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) business acumen, capacity building,
organizational development, innovation, and
other methods of growing and sustaining the
capacity of the aging network to serve older
adults and caregivers most effectively;’’.
(2) CLARIFYING PARTNERSHIPS FOR AREA
AGENCIES ON AGING.—Section 306 of the Older
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP6.037 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2243
April 3, 2019
Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3026) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(g) Nothing in this Act shall restrict an
area agency on aging from providing services
not provided or authorized under this Act,
including through—
‘‘(1) contracts with health care payers;
‘‘(2) consumer private pay programs; or
‘‘(3) other arrangements with entities or
individuals that increase the availability of
home and community-based services and
supports in the planning and service area
supported by the area agency on aging.’’.
By Mr. MCCONNELL:
S. 1021. A bill to amend the Inter-
modal Surface Transportation Effi-
ciency Act of 1991 with respect to a
portion of the Wendell H. Ford (West-
ern Kentucky) Parkway, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the text of
the bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1021
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. WENDELL H. FORD (WESTERN KEN-
TUCKY) PARKWAY.
(a) DESIGNATION AS HIGH PRIORITY COR-
RIDOR.—Section 1105(c) of the Intermodal
Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of
1991 (Public Law 102–240; 105 Stat. 2032; 131
Stat. 797) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(91) The Wendell H. Ford (Western Ken-
tucky) Parkway from the interchange with
the William H. Natcher Parkway in Ohio
County, Kentucky, west to the interchange
of the Western Kentucky Parkway with the
Edward T. Breathitt (Pennyrile) Parkway.’’.
(b) DESIGNATION AS FUTURE INTERSTATE.—
Section 1105(e)(5)(A) of the Intermodal Sur-
face Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991
(Public Law 102–240; 109 Stat. 597; 131 Stat.
797) is amended in the first sentence by
striking ‘‘and subsection (c)(90)’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘subsection (c)(90), and subsection
(c)(91)’’.
(c) NUMBERING OF PARKWAY.—Section
1105(e)(5)(C)(i) of the Intermodal Surface
Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (Public
Law 102–240; 109 Stat. 598; 126 Stat. 426; 131
Stat. 797) is amended by adding at the end
the following: ‘‘The route referred to in sub-
section (c)(91) is designated as Interstate
Route I–369.’’.
(d) OPERATION OF VEHICLES.—Section
127(l)(3)(A) of title 23, United States Code, is
amended—
(1) in the matter preceding clause (i), in
the first sentence, by striking ‘‘clause (i) or
(ii)’’ and inserting ‘‘clauses (i) through (iii)’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(iii) The Wendell H. Ford (Western Ken-
tucky) Parkway (to be designated as a spur
of Interstate Route 69) from the interchange
with the William H. Natcher Parkway in
Ohio County, Kentucky, west to the inter-
change of the Western Kentucky Parkway
with the Edward T. Breathitt (Pennyrile)
Parkway.’’.
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 140—URGING
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A
CYBER LEAGUE OF INDO-PACIFIC
STATES TO ADDRESS CYBER
THREATS
Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
COONS) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 140
Whereas the world has benefitted greatly
from technological innovations under the
leadership of the United States in the post-
World War era, including the creation of the
World Wide Web which has provided an en-
tirely new platform for wealth creation and
human flourishing through cyber-commerce
and connectivity;
Whereas cybercrime affects companies
large and small, as well as infrastructure
that is vital to the economy as a whole;
Whereas a 2018 study from the Center for
Strategic and International Studies, in part-
nership with McAfee, estimates that the
global economic losses from cybercrime are
approximately $600,000,000,000 annually and
rising;
Whereas, according to the Pew Charitable
Trust, 64 percent of people in the United
States had fallen victim to cybercriminals as
of 2017;
Whereas, on July 9, 2012, General Keith
Alexander, then-Director of the National Se-
curity Agency, termed theft of United States
intellectual property ‘‘the greatest transfer
of wealth in history’’;
Whereas, on September 25, 2015, the United
States and the People’s Republic of China
announced a commitment that ‘‘neither
country’s government will conduct or know-
ingly support cyber-enabled theft of intellec-
tual property, including trade secrets or
other confidential business information,
with the intent of providing competitive ad-
vantages to companies or commercial sec-
tors’’;
Whereas the People’s Republic of China
nonetheless continues to contribute to the
rise of cybercrime, exploiting weaknesses in
the international system to undermine fair
competition in technology and cyberspace,
including through theft of intellectual prop-
erty and state-sponsored malicious actions
to undermine and weaken competition;
Whereas, according to the 2019 Worldwide
Threat Assessment by the Director of Na-
tional Intelligence: ‘‘China, Russia, Iran, and
North Korea increasingly use cyber oper-
ations to threaten both minds and machines
in an expanding number of ways—to steal in-
formation, to influence our citizens, or to
disrupt critical infrastructure.’’;
Whereas, from 2011 to 2018, more than 90
percent of cases handled by the Department
of Justice alleging economic espionage by or
to benefit a foreign country involved the
People’s Republic of China;
Whereas more than 2⁄3 of the cases handled
by the Department of Justice involving theft
of trade secrets have a nexus to the People’s
Republic of China;
Whereas experts have asserted that the
Made in China 2025 strategy of the Govern-
ment of the People’s Republic of China will
incentivize Chinese entities to engage in un-
fair competitive behavior, including addi-
tional theft of technologies and intellectual
property;
Whereas the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea has also contributed to the rise of
cybercrime and according to the 2018 World-
wide Threat Assessment by the Director of
National Intelligence: ‘‘We expect the heav-
ily sanctioned North Korea to use cyber op-
erations to raise funds and to gather intel-
ligence or launch attacks on South Korea
and the United States. . . . North Korean ac-
tors developed and launched the WannaCry
ransomware in May 2017, judging from tech-
nical links to previously identified North Ko-
rean cyber tools, tradecraft, and operational
infrastructure. We also assess that these ac-
tors conducted the cyber theft of $81 million
from the Bank of Bangladesh in 2016.’’;
Whereas section 2(a)(8) of the North Korea
Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of
2016 (22 U.S.C. 9201(a)(8)) states, ‘‘The Gov-
ernment of North Korea has provided tech-
nical support and conducted destructive and
coercive cyberattacks, including against
Sony Pictures Entertainment and other
United States persons.’’;
Whereas the United States has taken ac-
tion on its own against international
cybercrime, including through—
(1) the North Korea Sanctions and Policy
Enhancement Act of 2016 (Public Law 114–
122), which imposed mandatory sanctions
against persons engaging in significant ac-
tivities undermining cybersecurity on behalf
of the Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea; and
(2) criminal charges filed by the Depart-
ment of Justice on October 25, 2018, in which
the Department alleged that the Chinese in-
telligence services conducted cyber intru-
sions against at least a dozen companies in
order to obtain information on a commercial
jet engine;
Whereas the March 2016 Department of
State International Cyberspace Policy Strat-
egy noted that ‘‘the Department of State an-
ticipates a continued increase and expansion
of our cyber-focused diplomatic efforts for
the foreseeable future’’;
Whereas concerted action by countries
that share concerns about state-sponsored
cyber theft is necessary to prevent the
growth of cybercrime and other destabilizing
national security and economic outcomes;
and
Whereas section 215 of the Asia Reassur-
ance Initiative Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–
409) calls for ‘‘robust cybersecurity coopera-
tion between the United States and nations
in the Indo-Pacific region’’ and ‘‘authorized
to be appropriated $100,000,000 for each of the
fiscal years 2019 through 2023 to enhance co-
operation between the United States and the
Indo-Pacific nations for the purpose of com-
batting cybersecurity threats’’: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) urges the President to propose and
champion the negotiation of a treaty with
like-minded partners in the Indo-Pacific to
ensure a free and open Internet free from
economically crippling cyberattacks;
(2) calls for the treaty, which can be re-
ferred to as the Cyber League of Indo-Pacific
States (in this resolution referred to as
‘‘CLIPS’’), to include the creation of an In-
formation Sharing Analysis Center to pro-
vide around-the-clock cyber threat moni-
toring and mitigation for governments that
are parties to the treaty; and
(3) calls for members of CLIPS—
(A) to consult on emerging cyber threats;
(B) to pledge not to conduct or support
theft of intellectual property, including
trade secrets or other confidential business
information;
(C) to introduce and enforce minimum
criminal punishment for cyber theft;
(D) to extradite alleged cyber thieves, con-
sistent with existing agreements and re-
specting national sovereignty;
(E) to enforce laws protecting intellectual
property, including patents;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP6.057 S03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2244 April 3, 2019
(F) to ensure that government agencies
comply with software license terms;
(G) to minimize data localization require-
ments (consistent with the Agreement be-
tween the United States of America, the
United Mexican States, and Canada, signed
at Buenos Aires November 30, 2018 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘United States-Mexico-
Canada Agreement’’));
(H) to seek cooperation with respect to the
standards described in the Arrangement on
the Recognition of Common Criteria Certifi-
cates in the field of Information Technology
Security, dated May 14, 2014;
(I) to provide for public input when devis-
ing legislation on cybersecurity; and
(J) to cooperate on the attribution of
cyberattacks and impose appropriate con-
sequences.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 247. Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms.
ERNST, Mrs. FISCHER, and Mr. BLUNT) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 201 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 268, making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 247. Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself,
Ms. ERNST, Mrs. FISCHER, and Mr.
BLUNT) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 201 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 268, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
On page 3, line 16, strike ‘‘milk’’ and insert
‘‘milk, on-farm stored commodities, crops
prevented from being planted in 2019,’’.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 7
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, April 3, 2019, at
9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing on pend-
ing legislation.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, April
3, 2019, at 2:15 p.m., to conduct a hear-
ing.
COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS
The Committee on Indian Affairs is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, April 3,
2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing
entitled, ‘‘Enhancing Tribal self-gov-
ernance and safety of Indian roads.’’
COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
The Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, April 3, 2019, at 2:45
p.m., to conduct a hearing entitled,
‘‘Reauthorization, of the SBA’s access
to capitol programs.’’
SUBCOMMITTEE ON SEAPOWER
The Subcommittee on Seapower of
the Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, April 3,
2019, at 3 p.m., to conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON STRATEGIC FORCES
The Subcommittee on Strategic
Forces of the Committee on Armed
Services is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
April 2, 2019, at 2:30 p m., to conduct a
hearing.
SUBCOMMMITTEE ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
The Subcommittee on Intellectual
Property of the Committee on the Ju-
diciary is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
April 2, 2019, at 2:45 p.m., to conduct a
hearing, ‘‘Trailblazers and lost Ein-
steins: Women inventors and the future
of American innovation.’’
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY, APRIL 4,
2019
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 11 a.m., Thursday, April 4;
further, that following the prayer and
pledge, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
approved to date, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day, morning business be closed,
and the Senate proceed to executive
session and resume consideration of
the Calabria nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 11 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, if there
is no further business to come before
the Senate, I ask unanimous consent
that the Senate stand adjourned under
the previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:42 p.m., adjourned until Thursday,
April 4, 2019, at 11 a.m.
f
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate April 3, 2019:
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
JEFFREY KESSLER, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE AN ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF COMMERCE.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:40 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A03AP6.056 S03APPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E393
April 3, 2019
KYLIE FLANNERY
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Kylie Flannery
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Kylie Flannery is a student at Mandalay
Middle School and received this award be-
cause her determination and hard work have
allowed her to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Kylie Flan-
nery is exemplary of the type of achievement
that can be attained with hard work and perse-
verance. It is essential students at all levels
strive to make the most of their education and
develop a work ethic which will guide them for
the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Kylie
Flannery for winning the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award. I have
no doubt she will exhibit the same dedication
and character in all of her future accomplish-
ments.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on January 17, 2019 dur-
ing roll call no. 42, on Motion to Suspend the
Rules and Pass H.J. Res. 30. Had I been
present, I would have voted, ‘‘yea.’’ I was also
unavoidably detained during roll call no. 43, on
Motion to Recommit with Instructions H.J.
Res. 28. Had I been present, I would have
voted, ‘‘nay.’’
f
HIGHLIGHTING ONE OF UTAH’S
OUTSTANDING WOMEN LEADERS
HON. BEN McADAMS
OF UTAH
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. MCADAMS. Madam Speaker, Utah Val-
ley University is my state’s largest public uni-
versity, with an enrollment of nearly 40-thou-
sand students. Yesterday, UVU inaugurated
its first woman president—Astrid S. Tuminez.
UVU is calling this week ‘‘The Week of
Dreams’’ and certainly, President Tuminez is
an example for all women seeking to achieve
their dreams.
She was raised in the slums of the Phil-
ippines, went to college at age 15 as a pre-
med student at the University of the Phil-
ippines. She later immigrated to the U.S. to
join family, was accepted at Brigham Young
University, eventually graduated from Harvard
University and received her doctorate at MIT.
She has held leadership positions in cor-
porations and universities throughout the
world. As she considered the UVU offer, she
said she thought there was ‘‘no better place
than a university where I could bring the total-
ity of my interests, passions, skills, com-
petencies and life experiences.’’
Her presidency is historic for another rea-
son: Half of Utah’s public colleges are now led
by women.
President Tuminez is the latest example of
how women are shaping our future—one
ground-breaking position at a time.
f
DANIELLE FLEMING
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Danielle Flem-
ing for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Danielle Fleming is a student at Three
Creeks K–8 and received this award because
her determination and hard work have allowed
her to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Danielle
Fleming is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Danielle Fleming for winning the Arvada
Wheat Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth
award. I have no doubt she will exhibit the
same dedication and character in all of her fu-
ture accomplishments.
f
REMEMBERING HERBERT FRANCIS
COLLINS
HON. RICHARD E. NEAL
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I would like to
take this opportunity to pay tribute to Herbert
Francis Collins, a giant in the affordable hous-
ing industry and champion for a cause that
would become his enduring professional leg-
acy. Herb passed away at the age of 89 on
March 30, 2019, in Gloucester, Massachu-
setts.
Born on March 17, 1930, Herb was raised
in Medford, Massachusetts in a single-parent
household with his mother and three siblings.
He worked numerous jobs to help support his
family, but still excelled in school. He played
football and ran track at Medford High School,
earning a track and field athletic scholarship to
Harvard University, where he graduated in
1955. While living in Cambridge, Herb met
Sheila Sellew, the love of his life and future
wife of 57 years. Following graduation, Herb
served in the Marine Corps, and then returned
to Massachusetts with his young family to set-
tle in Sheila’s hometown of Gloucester.
Early on, Herb held a variety of sales and
marketing positions in the defense and elec-
tronics industry. At age 44, Herb entered into
a new industry co-founding Boston Capital,
Inc. in 1974. From the humble beginnings of
a one-room operation, Herb and his partner
Jack Manning built Boston Capital into one of
the nation’s top real estate firms focused on
providing affordable housing.
Herb strongly believed access to safe and
affordable housing would provide benefits far
beyond simply providing shelter, including fa-
cilitating employment opportunities and greater
economic mobility for low-income residents. In
1986, Herb was a tireless advocate in passing
the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit pro-
gram—he also championed making it perma-
nent in 1993.
Above all, Herb was most proud of and de-
rived the greatest joy from his family. He was
a steadfast source of support for his children
and grandchildren, and instilled in them the
value of hard work, kindness, and humility.
Herb was and will forever be an inspiration
to his family, colleagues, and the countless
number of families that, through Herb’s vision
and leadership, live in quality affordable hous-
ing.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on January 16, 2019 dur-
ing roll call no. 37, on Agreeing to the Amend-
ment to H.R. 268, McGovern of Massachu-
setts Part B Amendment No. 2. Had I been
present, I would have voted, ‘‘aye.’’
f
IN RECOGNITION OF 160TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE HIGH POINT
POLICE DEPARTMENT AND
THOSE THAT HAVE FALLEN IN
SERVICE
HON. TED BUDD
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. BUDD. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the High Point Police Department,
which has honorably served the Guilford
County community for 160 years. Additionally,
I would like to share the stories of five High
Point police officers that died in the line of
service, protecting their community. These
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K03AP8.001 E03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E394 April 3, 2019
men and women were heroes and it is my
honor to recognize their service.
Officer James Witcher passed away on
September 13, 1913 while responding to a
disturbance call at a moving picture show in
High Point. Officer Witcher, and others, at-
tempted to arrest a subject for fighting. During
the arrest a crowd gathered, and a shot was
fired. Officer Witcher was shot in the abdomen
and died two days later.
Officers Carey James Reaves and Fred
Claywell were both shot during a raid on a liq-
uor house on June 9, 1925. Officer Reaves
died the following day. Officer Claywell died
nine days later.
Captain Allen Jerome Morris arrested a sub-
ject for being drunk and disorderly on the
afternoon of September 16, 1928. While es-
corting him toward the jail, the subject at-
tempted to escape. During the scuffle, Captain
Morris was kicked in the stomach and died
within minutes of the blow.
Master Officer Shelia Twyman was on a
routine patrol on December 20, 2001, when a
tractor trailer ran a red light and struck her pa-
trol car at the intersection of South Centennial
Street and East Russell Avenue. She was se-
verely injured and died three days later.
These individuals all died while protecting
the citizens of High Point and I think it is crit-
ical that we remember those that paid the ulti-
mate sacrifice. They will never be forgotten,
and their legacy lives on.
Additionally, I would like to recognize High
Point Chief of Police Kenneth Shultz and all
the officers that have served with the depart-
ment over the past 160 years. I have nothing
but the utmost respect for the work they do
each day.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
honoring these five officers and the 160th an-
niversary of the High Point Police Department.
f
CHRISTOPHER GARCIA–SANDOVAL
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Christopher
Garcia-Sandoval for receiving the Arvada
Wheat Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth
award.
Christopher Garcia-Sandoval is a student at
Sobesky Academy and received this award
because his determination and hard work
have allowed him to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Christopher
Garcia-Sandoval is exemplary of the type of
achievement that can be attained with hard
work and perseverance. It is essential stu-
dents at all levels strive to make the most of
their education and develop a work ethic
which will guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Christopher Garcia-Sandoval for winning the
Arvada Wheat Ridge Service Ambassadors for
Youth award. I have no doubt he will exhibit
the same dedication and character in all of his
future accomplishments.
RECOGNIZING THE MIAMI WIN-
NERS OF C–SPAN’S 2019
STUDENTCAM COMPETITION
HON. DONNA E. SHALALA
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of two groups of Miami
high school students who were among the
winners of C–SPAN’s 2019 StudentCam docu-
mentary filmmaking competition. The
StudentCam competition tasked middle and
high schoolers with creating a documentary
that addressed the question ‘‘What Does it
Mean to Be American?’’ Dahlia Harris, Neena
Deosaran, and Ceci Richardson, students at
South Miami Middle School, won third prize for
their documentary What is Your Limit, which
addressed the issue of gun violence. The Im-
migrant Dream, by Bianca Vucetich, Javier
Pujols, and Aimet Ruiz of iPrep Academy in
Miami earned an honorable mention.
What is Your Limit centers on its title’s
question: what is our limit before we act to
counter the epidemic of gun violence in our
country? They focus on the young students
whose lives are torn apart by school shoot-
ings, who fear for their safety sitting in class-
rooms. These young directors have more in-
sight into what needs to be done to stop gun
violence than many adults. This documentary
holds us all to account for what we need to do
if we do not want America to be defined by
our gun violence.
The Immigrant Dream is both a stunning in-
dictment of the anti-immigrant rhetoric and
policies in the United States in recent years as
well as a celebration of all that immigrants
have brought to our country. Watching their
work celebrate the diversity of the United
States, I am filled with pride in remembrance
of my own grandparents’ journey to this coun-
try from Lebanon. These young directors re-
mind us there is more that unites us than di-
vides us.
Dahlia Harris, Neena Deosaran, Ceci Rich-
ardson, Bianca Vucetich, Javier Pujols, and
Aimet Ruiz exemplify the incredible talent, in-
tellect of South Florida. I am pleased to cele-
brate their achievements as documentarians
and look forward to seeing all achieve in the
future.
f
PROUD TO RETURN THE
BALANGIGA BELLS TO PHIL-
IPPINES
HON. DON BACON
OF NEBRASKA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. BACON. Madam Speaker, late last year,
an historic event took place in the relations
between our country and the Republic of the
Philippines. In December of 2018, the United
States returned the historic ‘‘Bells of
Balangiga’’ to the Church of San Lorenzo de
Martir on the Island of Samar. The three Bells
had been brought to the U.S. following the
Philippine-American War over a century ago.
The return of the Bells by the Department of
Defense became a moment of national jubila-
tion for the Philippines.
The history of the Bells began on a Satur-
day morning in September 1901 when a com-
pany of American soldiers were caught in a
surprise attack by Philippine revolutionaries
and the U.S. Army unit was nearly decimated.
Some reports indicate that one of the bells
was thought to be used as a signal in the at-
tack. U.S. forces launched a counter-attack in
response, killed many of the people of the
town, destroyed the church with the bells and
took all three as war trophies. The three bells
were then shipped to America by the U.S.
Army, despite orders that Church property was
not subject to retention after the end of hos-
tilities. For over a century they remained
unlocated until twenty years ago when Phil-
ippine President Fidel Ramos, a West Point
graduate and American compatriot in the Ko-
rean and Vietnam wars, asked for the return
of two bells from a U.S. Air Force base in Wy-
oming, a base that a century ago was an
Army cavalry post. Since then, every Phil-
ippine president has asked for repatriation and
over the years, the ‘‘Bells of Balangiga’’ have
become national historic icons; sacred artifacts
of a nation whose historical patrimony was
largely destroyed in World War II.
Despite disagreement in the U.S. about the
return of the Bells, three retired U.S. Navy offi-
cers, later referred to as the ‘‘three sailors’’
believed that it was the right thing to do and
set out to advocate for their return. They knew
well the bond of friendship forged between the
United States and the Republic of the Phil-
ippines in World War II and strengthened ever
since. Thus, the three Naval officers began a
journey of discovery and learning spanning
Wyoming, Army and Air Force record centers,
a private library in Arizona, and the battle site
in Balangiga to fully realize the story of the
historic bells.
The ‘‘three sailors’’ discovered that the two
bells in Wyoming were not used as signals for
the attack and were the property of the Catho-
lic Church and sacred icons of the Philippines.
They also discovered that our possession of
them stood in stark contrast to other church
bells previously returned by the U.S. to Rus-
sia, Japan, and Germany. Most importantly,
they concluded that returning captured bells to
their rightful nations and church parishioners
have only strengthened the bonds between
those nations and reflect the highest stand-
ards of military honor.
For twenty years legislation existed that pre-
vented removal of the Balangiga Bells from
the United States. Last year I was honored to
advance and advocate legislation that amend-
ed the law to permit the Secretary of Defense
to approve return of the Bells and on the 14th
of November in 2018, former Secretary of De-
fense James Mattis announced that the Bells
were going home. On the 15th of December,
the President of the Philippines, with leaders
of the Armed Forces of the Philippines and the
United States in attendance, expressed grati-
tude to the American people as the Bells rang
once again in the coastal town of Balangiga.
As we commit to the work of this new Pacific
Century, let us reaffirm our long partnership
with the Republic of the Philippines, now
made stronger by the return of the Bells of
Balangiga, a noble act that will ensure that a
century long Philippine-American friendship
will endure and echo in eternity.
I am also pleased to share another story of
the Bells less known, that includes a heroic
young man from Nebraska, Private Adolph
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A03AP8.005 E03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E395
April 3, 2019
Gamlin. Adolph was the principal sentry on
duty the tragic morning of battle that became
known as the ‘‘Massacre of Balangiga’’. The
record reflects that Gamlin fought bravely that
day and acquitted himself with honor. His
courage and skill in battle helped survivors to
escape the onslaught and prevented the com-
plete decimation of his unit.
Adolph Gamlin was a 20-year-old farm boy
when he enlisted in 1898 with the 51st Iowa
Volunteer Infantry and was sent off to the Phil-
ippines. He later joined other Spanish Amer-
ican War volunteers by re-enlisting in the Reg-
ular Army’s 9th Infantry in 1900. Back to the
Philippines in November, he caught up with
Company C in January of 1901 when they
were still in China and returned to Manila with
his unit in June. He mustered out of the Army
in 1903 at Fort Niagara in New York as Ser-
geant Gamlin and returned to Nebraska, mar-
ried, had three children before his wife’s un-
timely death. Adolph remarried and today his
daughter, E. Jean Wall from that marriage,
carries on his memory. Over the years she
has accumulated the single most complete li-
brary on Balangiga and its military history. In-
cluded are many letters left to her by her fa-
ther. He was her hero, and now he is mine
too.
Adolph Gamlin died in 1969 at age 92.
Today he is at rest at the historic Wyuka Cem-
etery in Nebraska City. The diligent research
of the ‘‘three sailors’’ found there were many
heroes of the battle, valiant men never fully
recognized. Gamlin was one of them. Today I
am honored to capture this story to ensure it
is never forgotten and available in our nation’s
archives so others may know their story for
generations to come.
f
ALEXIS GAVALDON
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Alexis
Gavaldon for receiving the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Alexis Gavaldon is a student at Jefferson Jr/
Sr. and received this award because her de-
termination and hard work have allowed her to
overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Alexis
Gavaldon is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Alexis Gavaldon for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt she will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of her future ac-
complishments.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on March 14, 2019 during
roll call no. 125, On Agreeing to the Resolu-
tion, H. Con. Res. 24, Expressing the sense of
Congress that the report of Special Counsel
Mueller should be made available to the public
and to Congress. Had I been present, I would
have voted, ‘‘yea.’’
f
HONORING MAYOR JOHN COIRO
HON. BILL PASCRELL, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I would
like to call to your attention the many out-
standing achievements of Mayor John Coiro.
With this CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, I recognize
the many contributions he has made to the
people of the Ninth Congressional District.
John Coiro is a native of Totowa, New Jer-
sey. He was born to Ralph and Rose Coiro,
who settled in the borough following their emi-
gration from Italy. John presently resides in
Totowa with his wife, Marygrace, and their
children, Alyssa and Matthew.
In his youth, John attended Passaic Valley
High School, where he excelled in his studies.
Following high school, John chose to continue
his education at Seton Hall University. His
hard work earned him a Bachelor’s of Science
in Accounting and the Magna Cum Laude sta-
tus upon his graduation in 1981. Nine years
later, he received his Master’s Degree in Tax-
ation from Seton Hall. John continues to work
with Seton Hall as an advisor for their Center
for Entrepreneurial Studies.
In 1985, John was first elected to the
Totowa Board of Education. This was a pivotal
moment for John as this would start his dedi-
cation to public service. Two short years later,
John was elected to the Borough Council at
just 28 years old. This position afforded him
the opportunity to put his degrees to use and
concentrate on the finances of the munici-
pality. John was elected as Mayor of Totowa
in 1999. He is currently serving his sixth term,
the second longest tenure in the town’s his-
tory. Throughout his 20 years as Mayor, John
has set big milestones in his community, most
notably by swearing in the borough’s first fe-
male police officer.
In 2012, he was inducted into the League of
Municipalities Mayors Hall of Fame and serves
as a member of the Legislative Committee for
the League of Municipalities.
John continues to serve New Jersey as a
certified public accountant. He is currently em-
ployed as an executive tax director with the
international accounting firm Ernst & Young lo-
cated in Iselin, NJ, where he has worked for
38 years. John has served as president of the
New Jersey Society of Certified Public Ac-
countants (NJSPA), an organization with
15,000 members. In 2013, John was honored
by the NJSCPA and placed on their 50 over
50 list of CPA’s for his ongoing contributions
to the CPA profession and the community.
The job of a United States Congressman in-
volves much that is rewarding, yet nothing
compares to working with and recognizing the
efforts of dedicated individuals like Mr. John
Coiro.
Madam Speaker, I ask that you join our col-
leagues, Mayor Coiro’s family and friends, and
the residents of the State of New Jersey in
recognizing his outstanding character and
service to his community.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF BAYLISS
BOATWORKS
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Bayliss Boatworks of
Wanchese, North Carolina, a team who every
day applies their experience and unique
craftsmen touch in creating the perfect vessels
for their clientele.
Bayliss Boatworks was established in 2002.
The team was able to draw up a number of
contracts to begin their brand-new shop to
create their exquisite boats used for fishing,
travel and entertainment. Each boat is custom
made to fit the needs and preferences of each
client. These boats begin as a jig until it sur-
passes benchmarks like the ‘‘Whiskey Plank,’’
hull rollover, and engine install. From there,
the boats will have their cabins installed,
flybridge and mezzanine build-out, interior
cabinetry construction, paint, sea trial, and
lastly, delivery to the client. The hard work of
the employees can be seen on the water
around the world. Since its establishment in
2002, Bayliss Boatworks have received men-
tions in magazines such as Marlin, being clas-
sified among the top builders in the world. It
is a prestigious honor to be considered among
the world’s best boat craftsmen.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
recognizing the accomplishments of Bayliss
Boatworks as they celebrate 17 years in oper-
ation. May God bless the hardworking employ-
ees of Bayliss Boatworks, and I look forward
to seeing their excellence for many years into
the future.
f
DAVID GAVALDON
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud David
Gavaldon for receiving the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
David Gavaldon is a student at Arvada K–
8 and received this award because his deter-
mination and hard work have allowed him to
overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by David
Gavaldon is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
David Gavaldon for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt he will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of his future accom-
plishments.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP8.007 E03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E396 April 3, 2019
RECOGNIZING JANE GRIM
HON. BRIAN K. FITZPATRICK
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker, I rise
to recognize an outstanding citizen from Bucks
County, Pennsylvania, who was recently hon-
ored with the 38th Annual Bucks County
Women’s History Month Award.
Jane Grim, a resident of East Rockhill
Township, has distinguished herself as a lead-
er in our community. She was originally nomi-
nated for this distinction by the League of
Women Voters of Bucks County, an organiza-
tion she joined in 1970 to promote civic
awareness and good citizenship.
Jane’s record of service is truly impressive.
She has the unique distinction of being named
the first female trustee of Grand View Hos-
pital, has served as a member and chair of
the Pennridge Youth Aid Panel, and has
worked as a docent at the James A. Michener
Art Museum.
I cannot think of a worthier choice for the
Bucks County Women’s History Month Award
than Jane Grim. I wish Jane and her family all
of the best, and congratulate her on this well-
deserved recognition.
f
RECOGNIZING JOHN NAVARRA
HON. THEODORE E. DEUTCH
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize my constituent, First Sergeant
John Navarra, who is retiring as the leader of
the Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps
(JROTC) at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High
School.
John N. Navarra is a retired U.S. Army First
Sergeant with 22 years of service to our coun-
try. During this time, he served in multiple lo-
cations including the United States and Ger-
many and primarily worked in the administra-
tion and logistics fields.
Coupled with his service, John has dem-
onstrated a life-long commitment to education
by earning an Associate’s degree in Business
and Computer Science, a bachelor degree in
Interpersonal and Group Communications, a
Master’s degree in Education with Concentra-
tions in Teaching and Evaluation and a MBA
in Leadership.
However, it is not just his own education
that John has been committed to. John has
served as the JROTC Army Instructor at Mar-
jory Stoneman Douglas High School for 12
years, beginning in 2007. In this role, John
educated, provided guidance, and mentored
the students in the JROTC program In doing
so, he instilled in them the values of citizen-
ship, service to the United States, personal re-
sponsibility and a sense of accomplishment.
Madam Speaker, today I am pleased to
honor and thank Mr. John Navarra for his
service to his country and his community. I
congratulate John on his retirement.
HONORING THE LIFE OF LEON
ARTHUR BELLOT, JR.
HON. NEAL P. DUNN
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. DUNN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of Leon Arthur Bellot, Jr. who
passed away on Saturday, February 23, 2019
at the age of 67. Mr. Bellot was born and
raised in Dixie County, Florida and has held a
multitude of roles in Dixie County throughout
his lifetime—each of them with the main pur-
pose of serving others.
His love for education and investing in chil-
dren was one of the many passions that Mr.
Bellot dedicated his life to. A graduate of Dixie
County High School, Mr. Bellot would return to
this same school to not only teach, but also to
hold the title of Assistant Principal and Dean
of Students.
He protected the citizens of Dixie County
through his service as a volunteer fireman, As-
sistant Fire Chief for the Cross City Fire De-
partment, and through his role with Dixie
County Emergency Services. He would even
go on to become the first Emergency Services
Director for Dixie County in 1975. Mr. Bellot
served in the capacity of Emergency Services
Director for 24 years before also becoming the
first County Administrator for Dixie County.
Throughout his career and community in-
volvement, there was always one aspect of
Mr. Bellot’s life that would remain constant—
his love and commitment to the Lord God our
Savior. Mr. Bellot was a member of the Faith
Baptist Church where he dedicated his time to
the church as a Deacon.
Madam Speaker, please join me in honoring
the life of a courageous educator, protector,
and leader who will be missed by many, Mr.
Leon Arthur Bellot.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF THE
HONORABLE KENNETH A. GIBSON
HON. DONALD M. PAYNE, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I ask that my
colleagues join me in honoring the life and
legacy of a great man, a visionary leader, and
a trailblazer—Kenneth A. Gibson.
In 1970, voters in Newark, New Jersey,
elected Mr. Gibson as our city’s first Black
mayor. He went on to serve four terms as
mayor. Mayor Gibson passed away on March
19 at the age of 86. Mayor Gibson walked into
Newark City Hall during a tumultuous time in
the city’s history. He was steadfast in fighting
to ensure that, in his words, ‘‘wherever Amer-
ican cities are going, Newark is going to get
there first.’’ Mayor Gibson brought home fed-
eral funds to help improve public housing. He
made improvements to public health services,
which led to reductions in infant mortality and
tuberculosis. And Mayor Gibson helped start a
revitalization of downtown Newark that con-
tinues today.
Mayor Gibson’s words, vision, and legacy
will live on through the work of those who
came after him. The modern development of
Newark, New Jersey, cannot be separated
from the legacy of Kenneth A. Gibson. It was
his life and legacy that paved the way for
transforming Newark.
I ask that my colleagues join me in honoring
the life of Newark, New Jersey’s first Black
Mayor, the Honorable Kenneth A. Gibson.
f
BE THE LIGHT FOOD PANTRY FOR
U.S. COAST GUARD MEMBERS
AND OTHERS
HON. SUZANNE BONAMICI
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Ms. BONAMICI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to acknowledge the generosity and pub-
lic service of the organizers of the Be The
Light Food Pantry.
More than 500 active duty members of the
Coast Guard and their families live and work
in NW Oregon, and their mission is critical to
our nation’s safety. The Coast Guard protects
our borders and our national security. They
save lives every day, ensuring the safety of
our fishing fleet and the many others who rely
on the Columbia River and the ocean for their
livelihood.
Because of the longest-ever government
shutdown this winter, the dedicated members
of the U.S. Coast Guard missed two consecu-
tive paychecks. This was the first time in mod-
ern history that a branch of the armed forces
went without pay. It is unconscionable that
people who are protecting our country should
be forced to work without getting their pay-
checks.
Over the course of the 35-day-long shut-
down, I heard from many U.S. Coast Guard
members and spouses who were furious, de-
moralized, and very stressed about their per-
sonal finances.
Michelle discovered that her 16-year-old
was skipping meals because he was worried
there wouldn’t be enough food for his younger
siblings.
Amanda had to explain to her five kids why
the family needed food assistance, even
though their dad was working hard every day
to serve our country.
Robin, a proud Coast Guard mom with three
sons and one daughter-in-law in the Coast
Guard, told me that one of her sons lost an
apartment because he couldn’t afford to put
down a deposit.
Our national security depends on having
service members who are focused on the job
at hand, and the mission could be com-
promised if Coast Guard members are worried
about how they’re going to keep a roof over
their heads or put food on the table. The ef-
fects on future recruitment and our standing in
the world are also deeply concerning.
In the midst of this calamity, an inspiring ef-
fort came together—the Be The Light Food
Pantry for Coast Guard members and all fed-
eral employees affected by the shutdown. U.S.
Coast Guard spouses Stacey Benson,
Michelle Somers, and Amanda Gibbs gener-
ously led the effort, giving countless hours of
their time. Community members, local Boy
Scout Troop 211, the Masonic Temple of
Astoria, the Moms Club of Astoria, the U.S.
Coast Guard Chief Petty Officer Association,
and many private businesses contributed thou-
sands of pounds of food and hundreds of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A03AP8.011 E03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E397
April 3, 2019
hours of volunteer time to make the pantry a
success.
In its first weekend, the food pantry served
503 families. That’s 503 families who could
have faced hunger because of the harmful
and unnecessary shutdown. It is inspiring to
see how the community came together to sup-
port our Coast Guard members and their fami-
lies.
f
EMMALEE GONZALES
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Emmalee
Gonzales for receiving the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Emmalee Gonzales is a student at Man-
dalay Middle School and received this award
because her determination and hard work
have allowed her to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Emmalee
Gonzales is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Emmalee Gonzales for winning the Arvada
Wheat Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth
award. I have no doubt she will exhibit the
same dedication and character in all of her fu-
ture accomplishments.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE OVERDOSE
PREVENTION AND PATIENT
SAFETY ACT
HON. EARL BLUMENAUER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, today
I am pleased to introduce the Overdose Pre-
vention and Patient Safety Act. As the opioid
crisis continues to devastate our communities,
this legislation would help to address the
opioid crisis by ensuring that medical pro-
viders have access to the full medical history
of patients suffering from substance use dis-
orders.
Currently, because of an antiquated law
from 1972, substance use treatment records
are kept expressly separate from a patient’s
medical record. This life-threatening barrier
prevents medical providers who treat patients
in recovery for substance use disorders from
knowing their full medical history, which can
lead to poor, and in some cases, tragic patient
outcomes.
The Overdose Prevention and Patient Safe-
ty Act would align the outdated and restrictive
law, known as 42 CFR Part 2 (or ‘‘Part 2’’),
with the patient privacy protections currently in
place under HIPAA, ensuring substance use
records are treated as all other medical
records. The legislation also incorporates lan-
guage to guard against unauthorized invasions
of patient privacy, discriminatory activities, and
authorizes penalties and breach notification re-
quirements for these transgressions not cur-
rently available under Part 2.
As our health care delivery system moves
towards more robust, integrated care models,
every member of a patient’s treatment team
needs to understand a patient’s full medical
history, including substance use disorder his-
tory. Current Part 2 regulations stand as a hin-
drance to whole-person care and must be
changed to ensure all patients, regardless of
diagnosis, have access to safe, effective, high-
quality treatment and care.
If substance use disorder treatment is not
included in your entire medical records, then
they are not complete. It makes care coordina-
tion more difficult and can lead to devastating
outcomes. This bill works to remove the stig-
ma that comes with substance use disorders
and ensures necessary information is avail-
able for safe, efficient, and transparent treat-
ment for all patients. I urge all of my col-
leagues to join me to pass the Overdose Pre-
vention and Patient Safety Act.
f
COMMEMORATING 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF CASE CONSTRUCTION
SKID STEER
HON. RON ESTES
OF KANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. ESTES. Madam Speaker, today I ask
my colleagues to join me in honoring the 50th
anniversary of the skid steer loader.
On April 3, 1969, CASE Construction Equip-
ment began manufacturing its skid steer load-
ers for the first time in Burlington, Iowa.
In 1974, CASE moved its skid steer manu-
facturing operations to Wichita, Kansas.
In 1999, CASE and New Holland merged to
form CNH Industrial, but the skid steer manu-
facturing operation remained in Wichita.
Today, the Wichita site employs nearly 500
people who research, design and manufacture
the skid steer loaders for use all around our
country and throughout the world.
From agriculture to construction, the skid
steer has become an iconic fixture in many in-
dustries and is another example of how prod-
ucts grown and manufactured in south-central
Kansas impact our world.
I am hopeful that through free and fair trade
policies, companies like CNH Industrial can
continue to grow and thrive in my district of
Kansas and throughout the country.
On this 50th anniversary, I congratulate all
of the hard-working men and women of CNH
Industrial in Wichita on this milestone and
wish them many more decades of success
and growth.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF NATIONAL COMMANDER WIL-
LIAM M. DETWEILER
HON. CEDRIC L. RICHMOND
OF LOUISIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. RICHMOND. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the life and legacy of William M. ‘‘Bill’’
Detweiler, a strong advocate for veterans who
was a former national commander of the
American Legion. He passed away on
Wednesday, March 27, 2019 at the age of 79.
Mr. Detweiler, a native of New Orleans,
grew up near the St. Roch Playground. He
graduated from St. Aloysius High School and
earned undergraduate and law degrees at
Loyola University.
Mr. Detweiler served in the Army. After
graduating from its Infantry and Intelligence
schools, he was operations officer on the G–
2 Staff of the U.S. Air Defense Command at
Fort Bliss, Texas. After his discharge from ac-
tive duty in 1965, Mr. Detweiler returned to
New Orleans, where he served in the Army
Reserve, rising to the rank of captain.
Upon his return to civil life, Mr. Detweiler
started practicing law. In 1978, he was elected
constable of New Orleans’ First City Court, a
position to which he was re-elected twice and
from which he stepped down at the end of
1996.
In 1973, United States President Richard
Nixon appointed Mr. Detweiler to the Veterans
Administration’s National Rehabilitation and
Education Advisory Committee; he was named
its chairman in 1975. He also served on mili-
tary advisory boards for the governor, the Lou-
isiana Senate and New Orleans’ mayor.
In 1995, United States President Bill Clinton
invited Mr. Detweiler to fly with him on Air
Force One to Russia to represent America’s
veterans at the 50th annual commemoration of
the Allies’ victory in World War II.
Mr. Detweiler received the Andrew J. Hig-
gins Award for Exceptional Leadership from
the Mayor’s Military Affairs Committee of
Greater New Orleans in 1998.
After Hurricane Katrina devastated New Or-
leans in 2005, Mr. Detweiler was a guiding
force in getting the New Orleans VA Medical
Center rebuilt, serving on the advisory com-
mittee for the project’s design team. He was at
both the new facility’s groundbreaking and
grand opening and is credited with crafting the
words now engraved in stone at the front en-
trance of the medical center: ‘‘THE PRICE OF
FREEDOM CAN BE SEEN WITHIN THESE
WALLS.’’
In 2010, Mr. Detweiler was appointed to
lead the American Legion’s committee as-
signed to investigate the existing science and
procedures for treating traumatic brain injury
and post-traumatic stress disorder.
In 2013, Mayor Mitch Landrieu appointed
Mr. Detweiler to the Board of Directors of the
New Orleans Building Corp. He was elected
its president in 2017, which was the year
when the organization assumed the respon-
sibilities of the Canal Street Development
Corp.
Mr. Detweiler also was instrumental in bring-
ing what is now the National World War II Mu-
seum to the city of New Orleans. He served
as a member of the executive leadership team
for the museum until his death.
In December 2018, Mr. Detweiler was pre-
sented the French National Order of Merit by
Consulate General of France Vincent Sciama.
He was honored for his work at the museum,
including helping launch the annual World War
II Conference at the museum in 2007 when it
re-opened after Hurricane Katrina.
Mr. Detweiler loved the city and the people
of New Orleans. His legacy will forever be a
part of the city and his dedication to commu-
nity embodies the spirit of New Orleans. We
cannot match the sacrifices made by Mr.
Detweiler, but surely, we can try to match his
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K03AP8.011 E03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E398 April 3, 2019
sense of service. We cannot match his cour-
age, but we can strive to match his devotion.
Mr. Detweiler, in addition to his wife, sur-
vivors include two sons Scott Reed Detweiler
and Keith Michael Detweiler; two daughters,
Bonnie Detweiler Shor and Jeannie Detweiler
Miller; and six grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, I celebrate the life and
legacy of National Commander William M.
Detweiler.
f
BLAKE HAGAN
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Blake Hagan
for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge Service
Ambassadors for Youth award.
Blake Hagan is a student at Moore Middle
School and received this award because his
determination and hard work have allowed him
to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Blake
Hagan is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Blake Hagan for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt he will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of his future accom-
plishments.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF JOHN
BAYLISS
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of John Bayliss of Bayliss
Boatworks from Wanchese, North Carolina.
John is the leader of a team who every day
applies their experience and unique craftsmen
touch in creating perfectly crafted vessels for
their unique clientele.
Bayliss Boatworks was established in 2002.
With a fishing background, self-motivated
John, and his team built the company from the
ground up. John and friends were able to
draw up a number of contacts from the
sportfishing community to begin their brand-
new shop to create their exquisite boats used
for fishing, travel and entertainment. John
turned his passion into a profession. Since the
establishment of the company, Bayliss
Boatworks has risen to become one of the
premier boat craftsmen in the world. I am for-
tunate to have known John for many years
and be witness to the dedication he has for
his family, colleagues, and Bayliss Boatworks.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
recognizing the accomplishments of John
Bayliss as he and Bayliss Boatworks celebrate
17 years in operation. May God bless John
and the operations of the Bayliss Boatworks,
and I look forward to seeing their excellence
for many years into the future.
HONORING GERARDO OLIVERO
HON. BILL PASCRELL, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. PASCRELL. Madam Speaker, I rise to
celebrate the outstanding contributions of
Gerardo Olivero to the people of the State of
New Jersey. His numerous achievements
through hard work and dedication inspire gen-
erations, old and young. To this day, he moti-
vates his community to achieve their own
American Dream.
Of humble beginnings, Gerardo Olivero was
born in Avellino, Italy, the youngest of 11 chil-
dren. The Olivero family moved to Tripoli,
Libya in 1939 and worked tirelessly on the
land given to them, however, this peaceful life
did not last. In 1943, the Olivero family was
forced to evacuate Italian Libya due to World
War II. They left their new home behind,
sought shelter in a refugee camp in Sicily,
Italy, and returned back to their hometown of
Avellino.
In 1952, Gerardo’s father, Constantino, im-
migrated to the United States and three years
later, the rest of the family made the same
journey. The seven-day voyage from Naples
to Manhattan not only reunited Gerardo with
his father, but also opened a world of new op-
portunities. Making a home in Paterson, New
Jersey, Gerardo attended Central High
School, where he diligently studied English.
Gerardo worked many jobs to help support
himself and his family. His first and most piv-
otal job was in a coat factory; at the beginning
of his career he learned the fundamentals of
persistence and gratitude that would make him
a role model for his community. While visiting
Italy in 1967 for the first time since leaving,
Gerardo met and later married Dina Della
Salla on October 22 of that year. The two re-
turned to the United States and settled down
in Paterson. In 1973 Gerardo became a busi-
nessman in his own right, opening a coat fac-
tory, which stayed in business for 28 years
until his retirement in 2001. This was one of
Gerardo’s greatest achievements, second to
that of raising his family with his loving wife.
In 1955, Gerardo began an active member-
ship in the Roma Club, formed numerous life-
long friendships, became Vice President in
1972, and went on to serve as President from
1982 to 2014. With the Roma Club being a
second family to him, Gerardo still frequents
the club and keeps his Italian heritage alive as
a participating member, whilst residing in his
Pompton Plains home of 43 years and enjoy-
ing being a proud father and grandfather.
The job of a United States Congressman in-
volves much that is rewarding, yet nothing
compares to working with and recognizing the
efforts of dedicated individuals like Mr.
Gerardo Olivero.
Madam Speaker, I ask that you join our col-
leagues, Gerardo Olivero’s family and friends,
and the residents of the State of New Jersey
in recognizing his outstanding character and
service to his community.
EZEKIEL HATFIELD
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Ezekiel Hat-
field for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Ezekiel Hatfield is a student at North Arvada
Middle School and received this award be-
cause his determination and hard work have
allowed him to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Ezekiel
Hatfield is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Eze-
kiel Hatfield for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt he will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of his future accom-
plishments.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. STEVEN M. PALAZZO
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. PALAZZO. Madam Speaker, due to de-
layed flights on April 1, 2019, I was in transit
and unable to vote. Had I been present, I
would have voted YEA on Roll Call No. 137.
f
RECOGNIZING DEPUTY CHIEF
HECTOR RODRIGUEZ OF POMONA
HON. NORMA J. TORRES
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor my constituent, Dep-
uty Chief Hector Rodriguez of the Pomona Po-
lice Department. After almost 30 years of dedi-
cated public service to the people and com-
munities of the City of Pomona, Deputy Chief
Rodriguez is finally retiring and will be sorely
missed.
Before officially working for the department,
Rodriguez formed part of the Pomona Police
Explorer program in 1982. His remarkable ca-
reer with Pomona Police Department began
on January 2, 1990 as a Patrol Officer. Four
years later, Rodriguez was promoted to the
rank of Police Investigator to the Gang Unit
and the Homicide Unit. Then, in 2005, he was
promoted to Sergeant.
During his time in law enforcement, Rodri-
guez joined the Neighborhood Enforcement
Team and LA Impact Task Force. These
teams focused on quality of life issues. LA Im-
pact specifically focused on uniting federal,
state, and local law enforcement agencies in
Los Angeles County to investigate major
crimes and the dismantling of major drug traf-
ficking organizations. Additionally, Rodriguez
served on the Pomona Police Department’s
SWAT Team for 18 years.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A03AP8.017 E03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E399
April 3, 2019
In recognition of his excellent service, Rodri-
guez was promoted to Lieutenant as he re-
turned to the Investigative Services Division.
Then, he was Captain for the Operations Divi-
sion. Two years later, Rodriguez became the
Deputy Police Chief, which he served as for
the rest of his distinguished career.
His admirable character and confident ap-
proach left an indelible mark at the Pomona
Police Department. His dedication to the pro-
fession, the community, the Department and
the City of Pomona is highly commendable
and has earned him the esteem of the men
and women of the Pomona Police Depart-
ment.
For his remarkable accomplishments, it is
my honor to recognize Deputy Chief Hector
Rodriguez. His decades of commitment and
contributions to the City of Pomona are worthy
of commending and admiration.
f
SAMUEL HERNANDEZ
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Samuel Her-
nandez for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Samuel Hernandez is a student at North Ar-
vada Middle School and received this award
because his determination and hard work
have allowed him to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Samuel
Hernandez is exemplary of the type of
achievement that can be attained with hard
work and perseverance. It is essential stu-
dents at all levels strive to make the most of
their education and develop a work ethic
which will guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Samuel Hernandez for winning the Arvada
Wheat Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth
award. I have no doubt he will exhibit the
same dedication and character in all of his fu-
ture accomplishments.
f
HONORING THE CAREER AND AC-
COMPLISHMENTS OF COACH BOB
HALLBERG
HON. DANIEL LIPINSKI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Mr. Bob Hallberg and recognize his
tremendous impact on our community, most
recently as the Women’s Basketball Coach
and Athletic Director at St. Xavier University in
Chicago. Coach Hallberg’s dedication to his
athletes and his love for the sport is nothing
short of extraordinary. Despite starting his ca-
reer over 50 years ago, Coach Hallberg still
considers his retirement to be an early one.
His commitment to his profession and his
players throughout his distinguished tenure
stands as an example to all educators striving
to make a positive impact on the student-ath-
letes they mentor.
After playing basketball throughout his stud-
ies at Leo High School and later the Chicago
Teachers College (Chicago State), Coach Bob
Hallberg began his career coaching boys’ bas-
ketball just down the street from my childhood
home at Chicago’s Kennedy High School in
1966. From there he went on to coach Men’s
Basketball at St. Xavier University, Chicago
State University, and the University of Illinois,
Chicago. In 2000 he came back to St. Xavier
to become the university’s first—and so far
only—Women’s Basketball coach. In addition,
Coach Hallberg spent many years as St. Xavi-
er’s Athletic Director.
Coach Hallberg has been honored with in-
duction into multiple Halls of Fame, including
St. Xavier, Leo High School, the University of
Illinois-Chicago, the Chicago Catholic League,
the Illinois Basketball Coaches Association
(IBCA), and Chicago State University. Mean-
while, his former players remember him for his
endless encouragement and someone who
would stop at nothing to mold a player into the
best version of themselves.
I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring
Coach Bob Hallberg. It is not often you come
across a person who so encompasses inspira-
tion, sportsmanship, and professionalism. I
congratulate Coach Hallberg on his distin-
guished accomplishments, thank him for his
service, and wish him and his wife Linda noth-
ing but good health and happiness.
f
CONGRATULATIONS TO
ENDEAVORS
HON. WILL HURD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. HURD. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
recognition of the 50-year anniversary of En-
deavors. Since its start in 1969 as Urban Min-
istries, Endeavors has provided comprehen-
sive and effective support services for chil-
dren, families, and our nation’s veterans.
As an organization, Endeavors aims to em-
power people to build better lives for them-
selves, their families, and their communities
through services like career training, crisis
intervention, homelessness prevention,
childcare, emergency case management and
employment assistance for individuals with
disabilities. The organization provides critical
support to over 16,000 people each year and
makes a positive difference in communities
across the country.
On behalf of the Twenty-third Congressional
District of Texas, congratulations to Endeavors
on their 50th anniversary.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on April 2, 2019 during roll
call no. 140, on ordering the previous question
for H. Res. 274, consideration of S.J. Res. 7
and H. Res. 271. Had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was also unavoidably de-
tained during roll call no. 141, on agreeing to
the resolution, H. Res. 274, consideration of
S.J. Res. 7 and H. Res. 271, and suspension
authority. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was also unavoidably detained
during roll call no. 142, on motion to suspend
the rules and pass H.R. 540. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was also
unavoidably detained during roll call no. 143,
on approving the Journal. Had I been present,
I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF REVEREND SAMSON ‘‘SKIP’’
ALEXANDER
HON. CEDRIC L. RICHMOND
OF LOUISIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. RICHMOND. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the life and legacy of Reverend Samson
‘‘Skip’’ Alexander, a New Orleans pastor and
civil rights leader who befriended and worked
alongside Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,
photographed Dr. King’s life and career and
was present during some of the Civil Rights
Era’s pivotal moments. He passed away on
Sunday, March 24, 2019 at the age of 88.
Rev. Alexander graduated from Gilbert
Academy and Booker T. Washington High
School in New Orleans. He earned a Master
of Business Administration degree at Clinton
University and a doctorate in theology at A.P.
Clay Theological College. Rev. Alexander be-
came an active minister in the 1970s and he
preached at churches throughout the city. He
was associate minister at Christian Unity Bap-
tist Church. In 1957, Rev. Alexander attended
the founding of the Southern Christian Leader-
ship Conference in New Orleans. At a meeting
at the New Zion Baptist Church in Central
City, Dr. King was elected president of the
group, which would go on to become one of
the most important organizations in the civil
rights movement.
Rev. Alexander marched with Dr. King dur-
ing many of the marches from Selma to Mont-
gomery, Alabama, seeking voting rights for Af-
rican-Americans. During the marches in 1965,
Rev. Alexander suffered a bump to the back
of his head from a state trooper’s baton.
Rev. Alexander’s friendship with Dr. King
and his interest in photography led him to cap-
ture the civil rights icon’s life and career on
film. He also captured an iconic photo of
King’s widow, Coretta Scott King, sitting in the
front row of her husband’s 1968 memorial
service, holding their daughter Bernice on her
lap.
In addition to his work with civil rights
causes, Rev. Alexander was also a labor or-
ganizer and led striking workers in Memphis
and New York. Also, he was involved in many
1960s New Orleans sit-ins and demonstrations
seeking to integrate Canal Street lunch
counters and department stores and efforts to
desegregate the U.S. Custom House on Canal
Street. As an Air Force veteran, he led the ef-
fort to desegregate an Air Force base near
Denver, Colorado.
Balancing his time with the civil rights move-
ment, Rev. Alexander continued preaching
well into his 80s. He also hosted a radio show
on WBOK and was involved in politics as a
member of the Orleans Parish Democratic Ex-
ecutive Committee.
Rev. Alexander loved the city and the peo-
ple of New Orleans. His legacy will forever be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A03AP8.021 E03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E400 April 3, 2019
a part of the city and his dedication to commu-
nity embodies the spirit of New Orleans. We
cannot match the sacrifices made by Rev.
Alexander, but surely, we can try to match his
sense of service. We cannot match his cour-
age, but we can strive to match his devotion.
Rev. Alexander’s survivors include a son,
Jerome Alexander; three daughters, Gloria
Irvin, Joanne and Jacqueline Alexander; six
grandchildren; 14 great-grandchildren; and five
great-great-grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, I celebrate the life and
legacy of Reverend Samson ‘‘Skip’’ Alexander.
f
KRISTIAN KRAMER
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Kristian Kra-
mer for receiving the Arvada Wheat Ridge
Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
Kristian Kramer is a student at Drake Middle
School and received this award because his
determination and hard work have allowed him
to overcome adversities.
The dedication demonstrated by Kristian
Kramer is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. It is essential students at all
levels strive to make the most of their edu-
cation and develop a work ethic which will
guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Kristian Kramer for winning the Arvada Wheat
Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth award.
I have no doubt he will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and character in all of his future accom-
plishments.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
April 4, 2019 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
APRIL 9
Time to be announced
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nation of Gordon Hartogensis, of Con-
necticut, to be Director of the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corporation for a
term of five years, and other pending
nominations.
TBA
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine the posture
of the Department of the Navy in re-
view of the Defense Authorization Re-
quest for fiscal year 2020 and the Fu-
ture Years Defense Program.
SD–G50
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the Presi-
dent’s proposed budget request for fis-
cal year 2020 for the Forest Service.
SD–366
Committee on Foreign Relations
Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific,
and International Cybersecurity Policy
To hold hearings to examine ARIA in ac-
tion, focusing on human rights, democ-
racy, and the rule of law.
SD–419
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine migration
at the United States Southern border,
focusing on perspectives from the
frontline.
SD–342
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine the Pain-
Capable Unborn Child Protection Act.
SD–226
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe
To hold hearings to examine recent de-
velopments in Hungary, focusing on
issues related to the rule of law and
corruption.
LHOB–1539
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Finance
To hold hearings to examine drug pricing
in America, focusing on a prescription
for change, part III.
SD–215
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Military Construction
and Veterans Affairs, and Related
Agencies
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for military construc-
tion and family housing.
SD–124
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on State, Foreign Oper-
ations, and Related Programs
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
State.
SD–138
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and
Capabilities
To hold closed hearings to examine
United State Special Operations Com-
mand’s efforts to transform the force
for future security challenges and im-
plement the National Defense Strat-
egy.
SVC–217
Committee on the Budget
To hold hearings to examine the Presi-
dent’s proposed budget request for fis-
cal year 2020 for the Department of De-
fense.
SD–608
3 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Airland
To hold hearings to examine Air Force
modernization in review of the Defense
Authorization Request for fiscal year
2020 and the Future Years Defense Pro-
gram.
SR–232A
APRIL 10
9:15 a.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold hearings to examine the Presi-
dent’s proposed budget request for fis-
cal year 2020 for the Department of
State.
SD–419
10 a.m.
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry
To hold hearings to examine perspectives
on child nutrition reauthorization.
SH–216
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
Justice.
SD–192
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of Defense
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the National Guard
and Reserve.
SD–138
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on SeaPower
To hold hearings to examine Marine
Corps ground modernization in review
of the Defense Authorization Request
for fiscal year 2020 and Future Years
Defense Program.
SR–232A
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine broadband
mapping, focusing on challenges and
solutions.
SD–G50
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions
To hold hearings to examine reauthor-
izing the Higher Education Act, focus-
ing on strengthening accountability to
protect students and taxpayers.
SD–430
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine pending
nominations.
SD–226
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Finance
To hold hearings to examine the 2019 tax
filing season and the 21st century In-
ternal Revenue Service.
SD–215
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Energy and Water Devel-
opment
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the United States
Army Corps of Engineers and the Bu-
reau of Reclamation within the Depart-
ment of the Interior.
SD–138
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity
To hold closed hearings to examine de-
fense industrial base cybersecurity pol-
icy.
SVC–217
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03AP8.024 E03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E401
April 3, 2019
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Subcommittee on Transportation and Safe-
ty
To hold hearings to examine pipeline
safety, focusing on Federal oversight
and stakeholder perspectives.
SD–562
Committee on Indian Affairs
To hold hearings to examine building out
Indian country, focusing on tools for
community development.
SD–628
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on the Constitution
To hold hearings to examine free speech,
focusing on technological censorship
and the public discourse.
SD–226
Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship
To hold hearings to examine reauthoriza-
tion of the Small Business Administra-
tion’s international trade programs.
SR–428A
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
To hold hearings to examine VA MIS-
SION Act, focusing on implementing
the Veterans Community Care Pro-
gram.
SR–418
3 p.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Legislative Branch
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Government Ac-
countability Office and the Congres-
sional Budget Office.
SD–124
APRIL 11
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine opportuni-
ties for energy innovation and other
potential solutions to help address
global climate change.
SD–366
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:54 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M03AP8.000 E03APPT1
D344
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
House and Senate met in a Joint Meeting to receive His Excellency Jens
Stoltenberg, Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S2209–S2244
Measures Introduced: Twenty-nine bills and one
resolution were introduced, as follows: S. 997–1025,
and S. Res. 140. Pages S2239–40
Measures Reported:
S. Res. 123, supporting the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and recognizing its 70 years of accom-
plishments.
S. 862, to repeal the sunset for collateral require-
ments for Small Business Administration disaster
loans. Page S2234
Altman Nomination—Agreement: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of Roy Kalman Alt-
man, of Florida, to be United States District Judge
for the Southern District of Florida.
Pages S2224–25, S2225–29
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 66 yeas to 33 nays (Vote No. EX. 60), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Pages S2224–25
By 48 yeas to 51 nays (Vote No. EX. 61), Senate
rejected the ruling of the Chair that the post-cloture
time under Rule XXII for all judicial nominations
other than Circuit Courts or the Supreme Court of
the United States is two hours. Subsequently, Sen-
ator McConnell motion to appeal the ruling of the
Chair was upheld. Pages S2225–26
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that notwithstanding Rule XXII, the vote on
confirmation of the nomination occur at 11:45 a.m.,
on Thursday, April 4, 2019. Page S2226
Calabria Nomination—Cloture: A unanimous-con-
sent agreement was reached providing that at ap-
proximately 11 a.m., on Thursday, April 4, 2019,
Senate resume consideration of the nomination of
Mark Anthony Calabria, of Virginia, to be Director
of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Page S2244
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination: Jeffrey Kessler, of Virginia, to
be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce.
Pages S2211–24, S2244
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 95 yeas to 3 nays (Vote No. EX. 58), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S2216
By 48 yeas to 51 nays (Vote No. EX. 59), Senate
rejected the ruling of the Chair that the post-cloture
time under Rule XXII for all executive branch
nominations other than a position at level I of the
Executive Schedule under section 5312 of title 5,
United States Code, is two hours. Subsequently, Sen-
ator McConnell motion to appeal the ruling of the
Chair was upheld. Page S2220
Messages from the House: Page S2233
Measures Referred: Page S2233
Measures Placed on the Calendar:
Pages S2209, S2233
Executive Communications: Pages S2233–34
Petitions and Memorials: Page S2234
Executive Reports of Committees: Pages S2234–39
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S2240–41
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S2241–44
Additional Statements: Pages S2230–33
Amendments Submitted: Page S2244
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S2244
Record Votes: Four record votes were taken today.
(Total—61) Pages S2216, S2220, S2224–26
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03AP9.REC D03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D345
April 3, 2019
Adjournment: Senate convened at 12:30 p.m. and
adjourned at 6:42 p.m., until 11 a.m. on Thursday,
April 4, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S2244.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
APPROPRIATIONS: ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION AGENCY
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ment of the Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies concluded a hearing to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for fiscal year
2020 for the Environmental Protection Agency, after
receiving testimony from Andrew Wheeler, Admin-
istrator, and Holly Greaves, Chief Financial Officer,
both of the Environmental Protection Agency.
APPROPRIATIONS: DEFENSE HEALTH
PROGRAM
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ment of Defense concluded a hearing to examine
proposed budget estimates and justification for fiscal
year 2020 for the Defense Health Program, after re-
ceiving testimony from Vice Admiral Raquel Bono,
Director, Defense Health Agency, Lieutenant Gen-
eral Nadja West, Surgeon General of the Army, Vice
Admiral Forrest Faison, Surgeon General of the
Navy, Lieutenant General Dorothy Hogg, Surgeon
General of the Air Force, and Stacy Cummings, Pro-
gram Executive Officer of the Defense Healthcare
Management Systems, all of the Department of De-
fense.
APPROPRIATIONS: FEMA
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ment of Homeland Security concluded a hearing to
examine to examine the proposed budget estimates
and justification for fiscal year 2020 for the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, after receiving tes-
timony from Peter Gaynor, Acting Administrator,
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Depart-
ment of Homeland Security.
APPROPRIATIONS: NATIONAL NUCLEAR
SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Energy
and Water Development concluded a hearing to ex-
amine proposed budget estimates and justification
for fiscal year 2020 for the National Nuclear Secu-
rity Administration, after receiving testimony from
Lisa E. Gordon-Hagerty, Under Secretary for Nuclear
Security, Administrator, Charles P. Verdon, Deputy
Administrator for Defense Programs, Brent K. Park,
Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Non-
proliferation, and Admiral James F. Caldwell, Dep-
uty Administrator for Naval Reactors, all of the Na-
tional Nuclear Security Administration, Department
of Energy.
APPROPRIATIONS: DEPARTMENT OF
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Trans-
portation, Housing and Urban Development, and
Related Agencies concluded a hearing to examine
proposed budget estimates and justification for fiscal
year 2020 for the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, after receiving testimony from
Ben Carson, Secretary of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment.
APPROPRIATIONS: SERGEANT AT ARMS
AND CAPITOL POLICE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Legisla-
tive Branch concluded a hearing to examine pro-
posed budget estimates and justification for fiscal
year 2020 for the Senate Sergeant at Arms and the
United States Capitol Police, after receiving testi-
mony from Michael Stenger, Sergeant at Arms,
United States Senate; and Matthew Verderosa, Chief
of Police, United States Capitol Police.
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION REQUEST AND
FUTURE YEARS DEFENSE PROGRAM
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Stra-
tegic Forces concluded a hearing to examine missile
defense policies and programs in review of the De-
fense Authorization Request for fiscal year 2020 and
the Future Years Defense Program, after receiving
testimony from John C. Rood, Under Secretary for
Policy, General Terrence J. O’Shaughnessy, USAF,
Commander, United States Northern Command and
North American Aerospace Defense Command, Lieu-
tenant General Samuel A. Greaves, USAF, Director,
Missile Defense Agency, and Lieutenant General
James H. Dickinson, USA, Commander, United
States Army Space and Missile Defense Command/
Army Forces Strategic Command and Joint Func-
tional Component Command for Integrated Missile
Defense, all of the Department of Defense.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee ordered favorably reported the following
business items:
S. 151, to deter criminal robocall violations and
improve enforcement of section 227(b) of the Com-
munications Act of 1934, with an amendment in the
nature of a substitute;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03AP9.REC D03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D346 April 3, 2019
S. 494, to establish the American Fisheries Advi-
sory Committee to assist in the awarding of fisheries
research and development grants;
S. 512, to establish an advisory office within the
Bureau of Consumer Protection of the Federal Trade
Commission to prevent fraud targeting seniors;
S. 529, to establish a national program to identify
and reduce losses from landslide hazards, to establish
a national 3D Elevation Program, with an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 542, to protect the right of law-abiding citizens
to transport knives interstate, notwithstanding a
patchwork of local and State prohibitions;
S. 881, to improve understanding and forecasting
of space weather events;
S. 877, to prohibit the sale of shark fins;
S. 906, to improve the management of driftnet
fishing, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute;
S. 908, to provide for an equitable management
of summer flounder based on geographic, scientific,
and economic data;
S. 910, to reauthorize and amend the National Sea
Grant College Program Act, with an amendment in
the nature of a substitute;
S. 914, to reauthorize the Integrated Coastal and
Ocean Observation System Act of 2009, to clarify
the authority of the Administrator of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration with re-
spect to post-storm assessments, and to require the
establishment of a National Water Center;
S. 918, to prohibit the President or a Federal
agency from constructing, operating, or offering
wholesale or retail services on broadband networks
without authorization from Congress, with an
amendment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 919, to reduce regulatory burdens and stream-
line processes related to commercial space activities;
and
The nominations of Ann Marie Buerkle, of New
York, to be Chairman and a Commissioner of the
Consumer Product Safety Commission, Joseph Ryan
Gruters, of Florida, Leon A. Westmoreland, of Geor-
gia, and Rick A. Dearborn, of Oklahoma, each to be
a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors, Diana
Furchtgott-Roth, of Maryland, to be an Assistant
Secretary, and Heidi R. King, of California, to be
Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safe-
ty Administration, both of the Department of Trans-
portation, Barry Lee Myers, of Pennsylvania, to be
Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and At-
mosphere, and a routine list in the Coast Guard.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee ordered fa-
vorably reported the following business items:
S. Res. 23, supporting the goals and ideals of
Countering International Parental Child Abduction
Month and expressing the sense of the Senate that
Congress should raise awareness of the harm caused
by international parental child abduction, with an
amendment;
S. Res. 27, calling for a prompt multinational
freedom of navigation operation in the Black Sea and
urging the cancellation of the Nord Stream 2 pipe-
line;
S. Res. 35, supporting democratic principles and
standards in Bolivia and throughout Latin America,
with an amendment;
S. Res. 67, expressing the sense of the Senate on
the importance and vitality of the United States alli-
ances with Japan and the Republic of Korea, and our
trilateral cooperation in the pursuit of shared inter-
ests, with an amendment;
S. Res. 95, recognizing the 198th anniversary of
the independence of Greece and celebrating democ-
racy in Greece and the United States;
S. Res. 96, commending the Government of Can-
ada for upholding the rule of law and expressing
concern over actions by the Government of the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China in response to a request from
the United States Government to the Government of
Canada for the extradition of a Huawei Technologies
Co., Ltd. executive;
S. Res. 123, supporting the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and recognizing its 70 years of accom-
plishments; and
The nominations of John P. Abizaid, of Nevada,
to be Ambassador to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,
Stephen Akard, of Indiana, to be Director of the Of-
fice of Foreign Missions, with the rank of Ambas-
sador, Lynda Blanchard, of Alabama, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Slovenia, Joseph Cella, of
Michigan, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Fiji,
and to serve concurrently and without additional
compensation as Ambassador to the Republic of
Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru, the Kingdom of
Tonga, and Tuvalu, R. Clarke Cooper, of Florida, to
be an Assistant Secretary of State (Political-Military
Affairs), Michael J. Fitzpatrick, of Virginia, to be
Ambassador to the Republic of Ecuador, Kenneth S.
George, of Texas, to be Ambassador to the Oriental
Republic of Uruguay, Brett P. Giroir, of Texas, to
be Representative of the United States on the Execu-
tive Board of the World Health Organization, Jeffrey
Ross Gunter, of California, to be Ambassador to the
Republic of Iceland, Ronald Douglas Johnson, of
Florida, to be Ambassador to the Republic of El Sal-
vador, W. Patrick Murphy, of Vermont, to be Am-
bassador to the Kingdom of Cambodia, Daniel N.
Rosenblum, of Maryland, to be Ambassador to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03AP9.REC D03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D347
April 3, 2019
Republic of Uzbekistan, Robert K. Scott, of Mary-
land, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Malawi,
Donald R. Tapia, of Arizona, to be Ambassador to
Jamaica, Matthew H. Tueller, of Utah, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Iraq, Keith Krach, of Cali-
fornia, to be an Under Secretary of State (Economic
Growth, Energy, and the Environment), United
States Alternate Governor of the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, United States Al-
ternate Governor of the International Bank for Re-
construction and Development for a term of five
years, and United States Alternate Governor of the
Inter-American Development Bank for a term of five
years, David Schenker, of New Jersey, to be an As-
sistant Secretary of State (Near Eastern Affairs),
David Stilwell, of Hawaii, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of State (East Asian and Pacific Affairs), and
Kip Tom, of Indiana, for the rank of Ambassador
during his tenure of service as U.S. Representative to
the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agri-
culture, all of the Department of State, John Barsa,
of Florida, to be an Assistant Administrator of the
United States Agency for International Development,
Jane L. Corwin, of New York, Robert C. Sisson, of
Michigan, and Lance V. Yohe, of North Dakota, all
to be a Commissioner on the part of the United
States on the International Joint Commission,
United States and Canada, and Mark Rosen, of Con-
necticut, to be United States Executive Director of
the International Monetary Fund.
ENHANCING TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNANCE
AND SAFETY
Committee on Indian Affairs: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine enhancing tribal self-governance
and safety of Indian roads, after receiving testimony
from Timothy Hess, Associate Administrator, Office
of Federal Lands Highway, Federal Highway Admin-
istration, Department of Transportation; Leroy Gishi,
Chief of the Division of Transportation, Bureau of
Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior; Stephen
Roe Lewis, Gila River Indian Community, Sacaton,
Arizona; and Joe Garcia, Ohkay Owingeh, Owingeh,
New Mexico.
WOMEN INVENTORS
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Intellec-
tual Property concluded a hearing to examine
women inventors and the future of American innova-
tion, after receiving testimony from Robin L. Rasor,
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina; Barbara
Gault, Institute for Women’s Policy Research,
Washington, D.C.; Patricia E. Bath, American Insti-
tute for the Prevention of Blindness, Los Angeles,
California; and Sandra K. Nowak, 3M Company, St.
Paul, Minnesota.
ACCESS TO CAPITAL PROGRAMS
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine reauthoriza-
tion of the Small Business Administration’s Access
to Capital programs, after receiving testimony from
William M. Manger, Associate Administrator, Office
of Capital Access, Small Business Administration;
Julie Huston, immito, LLC, Denver, Colorado; Patri-
cia Kibbe, Evergreen Business Capital, Seattle,
Washington; Robert Villarreal, CDC Small Business
Finance, San Diego, California; and Connie Evans,
Association for Enterprise Opportunity, Washington,
D.C.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 36 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 2043–2078; and 7 resolutions, H.
Con. Res. 31–32; and H. Res. 285–289 were intro-
duced. Pages H3066–68
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H3069–70
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Kim to act as Speaker pro
tempore for today. Page H2989
Recess: The House recessed at 9:03 a.m. for the
purpose of receiving His Excellency Jens Stoltenberg,
Secretary General of the North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization. The House reconvened at 12:26 p.m.,
and agreed that the proceedings had during the
Joint Meeting be printed in the Record. Page H2989
Condemning the Trump Administration’s Legal
Campaign to Take Away Americans’ Health
Care: The House agreed to H. Res. 271, con-
demning the Trump Administration’s Legal Cam-
paign to Take Away Americans’ Health Care, by a
yea-and-nay vote of 240 yeas to 186 nays, with one
answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No. 146. Consideration
began yesterday, April 2nd. Pages H3002–03
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03AP9.REC D03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D348 April 3, 2019
H. Res. 274, the rule providing for consideration
of the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 7) and the resolu-
tion (H. Res. 271) was agreed to yesterday, April
2nd.
Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of
2019: The House considered H.R. 1585, to reau-
thorize the Violence Against Women Act of 1994.
Consideration is expected to resume tomorrow, April
3rd. Pages H3003–61
Pursuant to the Rule, it shall be in order to con-
sider as an original bill for the purpose of amend-
ment under the five-minute rule an amendment in
the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of
Rules Committee Print 116–9, modified by the
amendment printed in part A of H. Rept. 116–32,
in lieu of the amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute recommended by the Committee on the Judi-
ciary now printed in the bill. Page H3012
Agreed to:
Escobar amendment (No. 3 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that requires a report on the sta-
tus of women in federal incarceration and collabora-
tion on reentry planning and services for incarcerated
women, including development of a national stand-
ard on prevention with respect to domestic and sex-
ual violence; Pages H3030–31
Dean amendment (No. 4 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–32) that allows for cross agency coordina-
tion and collaboration; Pages H3031–32
Torres amendment (No. 5 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–32) that requires the Center for Disease
Control and Prevention to provide a report to Con-
gress on the activities of grant awardees funded
through the Rape Prevention and Education (RPE)
grant program, as well as on emerging best practices
relating to rape prevention and education; Page H3032
Burgess amendment (No. 6 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that requires state and local gov-
ernments that are recipients of the Debbie Smith
DNA Backlog Grant Program to include informa-
tion on best practices regarding reducing the back-
log of DNA evidence in those government’s annual
reports to the Attorney General; Pages H3032–33
Young (AK) amendment (No. 8 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–32) that changes the definition of
land eligible for a tribe’s jurisdiction to include all
land within any Alaska Native village, for the Alaska
tribal jurisdiction pilot project; Page H3034
Johnson (TX) amendment (No. 9 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–32) that clarifies in law the dif-
ference between internal and external transfers when
applying for an emergency transfer; Page H3035
Wagner amendment (No. 11 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that enhances VAWA’s trans-
parency and accountability measures by making enti-
ties found by the Attorney General to have inten-
tionally misused VAWA grant funds ineligible to
apply for future grants for up to 5 years, after rea-
sonable notice and opportunity for a hearing;
Page H3037
Grijalva amendment (No. 12 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that expands the definition of do-
mestic violence in the Indian Civil Rights Act of
1968, as amended by the bill, to include violence
against or witnessed by a child under the age of 18,
or an elder (as defined by tribal law); Pages H3037–38
Grijalva amendment (No. 13 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32), as modified, that alleviates the
costs tribes incur due to the expansion of criminal
jurisdiction; provides language allowing the Attor-
ney General to award grants to tribes to improve law
enforcement, tribal court personnel and criminal
codes; Pages H3038–39
Emmer amendment (No. 14 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that authorizes the Office on Vio-
lence Against Women to improve the handling of
crimes of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual
assault, and stalking by incorporating a trauma-in-
formed approach into the initial response to and in-
vestigation of such crimes; Pages H3039–41
Quigley amendment (No. 15 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that requires the Secretary of
HHS to review and submit a report on whether
being a victim of domestic violence increases the
likelihood of having a substance use disorder;
Pages H3041–42
Meng amendment (No. 16 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that directs the Department of
Justice to establish an interagency working group to
study existing Federal surveys and reporting pro-
grams on sexual violence, and to make recommenda-
tions on how to harmonize such efforts for improved
coordination and data collection; Pages H3042–43
Jeffries amendment (No. 1 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–32) that requires that the materials dis-
tributed by various federal agencies as set out by the
bill are made available in commonly encountered
languages; such materials include information about
resources for and rights of survivors (by a recorded
vote of 363 ayes to 67 noes, Roll No. 147);
Pages H3029, H3043–44
Scanlon amendment (No. 2 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that requires the Comptroller
General of the United States to submit to Congress
a report on the return on investment for legal assist-
ance grants awarded pursuant to section 1201 of di-
vision B of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence
Protection Act of 2000 (by a recorded vote of 394
ayes to 36 noes, Roll No. 148); Pages H3029–30, H3044
Waters amendment (No. 7 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that creates a new purpose area to
the grants to combat violent crimes on campuses,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03AP9.REC D03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D349
April 3, 2019
which allows grant funds to be used for the training
of campus personnel in how to use victim-centered,
trauma-informed interview techniques, informed by
evidence based research on the neurobiology of trau-
ma, when asking questions of a student or employee
who reports to be a victim of sexual harassment, sex-
ual assault, domestic violence, dating violence or
stalking (by a recorded vote of 258 ayes to 173 noes,
Roll No. 149); Pages H3033–34, H3044–45
Wagner amendment (No. 10 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that ensures that the Creating
Hope through Outreach, Options, Service, and Edu-
cation for Children and Youth (CHOOSE Children
and Youth) Program can continue to include pro-
grams that address sex trafficking (by a recorded
vote of 429 ayes with none voting ‘‘no’’, Roll No.
150); Pages H3035–37, H3045–46
Meng amendment (No. 17 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that ensures that parenting classes
are made available to prisoners with limited English
proficiency; Page H3046
Meng amendment (No. 18 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that directs the Director of BOP
to develop tools to communicate parenting program
availability and eligibility criteria to each BOP em-
ployee and each pregnant inmate to ensure that each
pregnant inmate understands the resources available
to them; Pages H3046–47
Meng amendment (No. 19 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that ensures that cultural com-
petency training is included in trauma screening
trainings provided to correctional officers, and each
BOP employee, including instructors and health care
professionals; Pages H3047–48
Plaskett amendment (No. 20 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that increases the minimum
amount made available to territories of the United
States under the Sexual Assault Services Program and
the Transitional Housing Assistance Program;
Pages H3048–49
Bera amendment (No. 21 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–32) that increases funding for grants to
enhance culturally specific services for victims of do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
stalking; Page H3049
Gallego amendment (No. 22 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that directs the GAO to submit
a report on the response of law enforcement agencies
to reports of missing or murdered Indians, including
recommendations for legislative solutions;
Pages H3049–50
Clark (MA) amendment (No. 23 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–32) that establishes a grant pro-
gram to train state and local law enforcement to pre-
vent, enforce, and prosecute domestic violence-re-
lated crimes carried out online and establishes a na-
tional resource center to study these crimes; requires
the FBI to update the Uniform Crime Reports and
the National Incident-Based Reporting System to in-
clude cybercrimes committed against individuals;
Pages H3050–52
Krishnamoorthi amendment (No. 24 printed in
part B of H. Rept. 116–32) that specifies, but does
not limit, components of economic security that
Americans face when striving for economic stability
including: financial empowerment, affordable hous-
ing, transportation, healthcare access, and quality
education and training opportunities; Pages H3052–53
Krishnamoorthi amendment (No. 25 printed in
part B of H. Rept. 116–32) that ensures the inclu-
sion of guidelines and best practices for the creation
of employee assistance programs; Page H3053
Brown (MD) amendment (No. 26 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–32) that creates a grant program
for States, local governments, Indian tribes, and do-
mestic violence victim service providers and coali-
tions for technical assistance and training in the op-
eration or establishment of a lethality assessment
program (LAP); Pages H3053–54
Haaland amendment (No. 27 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that provides for the inclusion of
victim advocates/resources in state courts for urban
American Indians/Alaskan Natives (AI/ANs) where
71 percent of the Native American population re-
sides due to federal relocation and termination poli-
cies; Page H3054
Haaland amendment (No. 28 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that clarifies that federal criminal
information database sharing extends to entities des-
ignated by a tribe as maintaining public safety with-
in a tribe’s territorial jurisdiction that have no fed-
eral or state arrest authority; Pages H3054–55
Rouda amendment (No. 29 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that adds language that recognizes
the ongoing epidemic of violence against transgender
and gender non-conforming people; Pages H3055–56
Rouda amendment (No. 30 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that gives college campuses the
opportunity to offer primary prevention training, in
addition to survivor support services; Page H3056
Rouda amendment (No. 31 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that gives college campuses the
opportunity to offer alternative justice response pro-
grams; Pages H3056–57
Rouda amendment (No. 32 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that gives college campuses the
opportunity to include all participants involved with
the resolution process in training which identifies
and responds to crimes of domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, and stalking; resolution
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03AP9.REC D03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D350 April 3, 2019
process members include the Title IX coordinator’s
office as well as the office of student conduct;
Pages H3057–58
Craig amendment (No. 33 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–32) that directs the Secretary of Edu-
cation to submit a report to Congress regarding an
evaluation of programs, events, and educational ma-
terials related to domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, and stalking and an assessment of best
practices and guidance; this report shall be made
publicly available online to universities and college
campuses to use as a resource; Page H3058
Schrier amendment (No. 34 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that specifies that trauma and be-
havioral health specialists are included in the term
‘‘health care professionals’’; would also increase the
number of health care professionals that specialize in
child exposure to violence; Pages H3058–59
Underwood amendment (No. 35 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–32) that requires DOJ to report to
Congress the effects of the recent federal government
shutdown on DOJ’s efforts to disperse funding and
services to victims to domestic violence; Page H3059
Casten (IL) amendment (No. 36 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–32) that ensures that campus fac-
ulty is trained to recognize victims of sexual or do-
mestic violence; Pages H3059–60
Porter amendment (No. 37 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–32) that integrates the term ‘‘eco-
nomic abuse’’ throughout the legislation, wherever
‘‘domestic violence’’ occurs; and Pages H3060–61
Rose (NY) amendment (No. 38 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–32) that expands the National Do-
mestic Violence Hotline to include texting features
via telephone. Page H3061
H. Res. 281, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 1585) was agreed to by a yea-and-
nay vote of 231 yeas to 194 nays, Roll No. 145,
after the previous question was ordered by a yea-and-
nay vote of 231 yeas to 193 nays, Roll No. 144.
Pages H2993–H3002
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 9 a.m. tomorrow, April 4th. Page H3061
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H2993.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Three yea-and-nay votes
and four recorded votes developed during the pro-
ceedings of today and appear on pages H3001–02,
H3002, H3002–03, H3043–44, H3044, H3045,
and H3045–46. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 8:26 p.m.
Committee Meetings
EXAMINING THE PROPOSED ABAWD RULE
AND ITS IMPACT ON HUNGER AND
HARDSHIP
Committee on Agriculture: Subcommittee on Nutrition,
Oversight, and Department Operations held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Examining the Proposed ABAWD
Rule and its Impact on Hunger and Hardship’’. Tes-
timony was heard from public witnesses.
APPROPRIATIONS—FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Admin-
istration, and Related Agencies held a budget hear-
ing on the Food and Drug Administration. Testi-
mony was heard from Scott Gottlieb, Commissioner,
Food and Drug Administration.
APPROPRIATIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on the De-
partments of Transportation, and Housing and
Urban Development, and Related Agencies held a
budget hearing on the Department of Housing and
Urban Development. Testimony was heard from
Benjamin S. Carson, Sr., M.D., Secretary, Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development.
APPROPRIATIONS—NATIONAL PARKS
SERVICE, FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE,
U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agencies held a
budget hearing on the National Parks Service, Fish
and Wildlife Service, and U.S. Geological Survey.
Testimony was heard from the following Department
of the Interior officials: Margaret Everson, Principal
Deputy Director, Fish and Wildlife Service; Jim
Reilly, Director, U.S. Geological Survey; and Daniel
Smith, Deputy Director Exercising the Authority of
the Director, National Park Service.
APPROPRIATIONS—FEDERAL
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Finan-
cial Services and General Government held a budget
hearing on the Federal Communications Commis-
sion. Testimony was heard from Ajit Pai, Chairman,
Federal Communications Commission; and Jessica
Rosenworcel, Commissioner, Federal Communica-
tions Commission.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03AP9.REC D03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D351
April 3, 2019
APPROPRIATIONS—SCIENCE, ENERGY,
AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
PROGRAMS
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Energy
and Water Development, and Related Agencies held
a budget hearing on Science, Energy, and Environ-
mental Management Programs. Testimony was heard
from Paul Dabbar, Under Secretary for Science, De-
partment of Energy; and Mark Menezes, Under Sec-
retary for Energy, Department of Energy.
APPROPRIATIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
LABOR
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on the De-
partments of Labor, Health and Human Services,
Education, and Related Agencies held a budget hear-
ing on the Department of Labor. Testimony was
heard from Alexander Acosta, Secretary, Department
of Labor.
APPROPRIATIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
COMMERCE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies held a
budget hearing on the Department of Commerce.
APPROPRIATIONS—DEFENSE HEALTH
PROGRAMS
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Defense
held a budget hearing on Defense Health Programs.
Testimony was heard from Vice Admiral Raquel
Bono, Director, Defense Health Agency; Stacy Cum-
mings, Program Executive Officer, Defense
Healthcare Management Systems; Vice Admiral For-
rest C. Faison III, Surgeon General, U.S. Navy; Lieu-
tenant General Dorothy A. Hogg, Surgeon General,
U.S. Air Force; Thomas McCaffery, Principal Dep-
uty, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Af-
fairs, Department of Defense; Lieutenant General
Nadja Y. West, Surgeon General, U.S. Army.
MEMBER DAY
Committee on Armed Services: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’. Testimony was
heard from Chairman Kilmer, Chairman Takano, and
Representatives Case, Green of Tennessee,
Cunningham, Thompson of Pennsylvania, Rose of
New York, and San Nicholas.
FISCAL YEAR 2020 PRIORITIES FOR
NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE PROGRAMS
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Stra-
tegic Forces held a hearing entitled ‘‘Fiscal Year
2020 Priorities for National Security Space Pro-
grams’’. Testimony was heard from Kenneth
Rapuano, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Home-
land Defense and Global Security, Department of
Defense; General John W. Raymond, Commander,
Air Force Space Command; and Christina Chaplain,
Director, Acquisition and Sourcing Management,
Government Accountability Office.
REVIEWING DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
STRATEGY, POLICY, AND PROGRAMS FOR
COUNTERING WEAPONS OF MASS
DESTRUCTION FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Intel-
ligence and Emerging Threats and Capabilities held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Reviewing Department of De-
fense Strategy, Policy, and Programs for Countering
Weapons of Mass Destruction for Fiscal Year 2020’’.
Testimony was heard from D. Christian Hassell,
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Chemical
and Biological Defense Programs; Theresa Whelan,
Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Homeland Defense and Global Security; Vice Admi-
ral Timothy G. Szymanski, Deputy Commander,
U.S. Special Operations Command; and Vayl S. Ox-
ford, Director, Defense Threat Reduction Agency.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on the Budget: Full Committee held a mark-
up on H.R. 2021, the ‘‘Investing for the People Act
of 2019’’. H.R. 2021 was ordered reported, without
amendment.
STRENGTHENING ACCOUNTABILITY IN
HIGHER EDUCATION TO BETTER SERVE
STUDENTS AND TAXPAYERS
Committee on Education and Labor: Subcommittee on
Higher Education and Workforce Investment held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Strengthening Accountability in
Higher Education to Better Serve Students and Tax-
payers’’. Testimony was heard from Melissa Emrey-
Arras, Director, Education, Workforce, And Income
Security Issues, Government Accountability Office;
Noe Ortega, Deputy Secretary, Office of Postsec-
ondary and Higher Education, Pennsylvania Depart-
ment of Education; and public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Full Committee
began a markup on H.R. 1644, the ‘‘Save the Inter-
net Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1781, the ‘‘Payment Com-
mission Data Act of 2019’’; H.R. 938, the
‘‘BLOCKING Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1520, the ‘‘Purple
Book Continuity Act of 2019’’; H.R.1503, the ‘‘Or-
ange Book Transparency Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1499,
the ‘‘Protecting Consumer Access to Generic Drugs
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 965, the ‘‘CREATES Act of
2019’’; H.R. 1385, the ‘‘SAVE Act’’; H.R. 1386,
the ‘‘ENROLL Act of 2019’’; H.R. 987, the ‘‘MORE
Health Education Act’’; H.R. 1010, a bill to provide
that the rule entitled ‘‘Short-Term, Limited Duration
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03AP9.REC D03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D352 April 3, 2019
Insurance’’ shall have no force or effect; H.R. 986,
the ‘‘Protecting Americans with Preexisting Condi-
tions Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1425, the ‘‘State Health
Care Premium Reduction Act’’; and H.R. 9, the
‘‘Climate Action Now Act’’.
MEMBER DAY
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’.
PUTTING INVESTORS FIRST: REVIEWING
PROPOSALS TO HOLD EXECUTIVES
ACCOUNTABLE
Committee on Financial Services: Subcommittee on In-
vestor Protection, Entrepreneurship, and Capital
Markets held a hearing entitled ‘‘Putting Investors
First: Reviewing Proposals to Hold Executives Ac-
countable’’. Testimony was heard from public wit-
nesses.
ASSESSING U.S. POLICY PRIORITIES IN THE
MIDDLE EAST
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on the
Middle East, North Africa, and International Ter-
rorism held a hearing entitled ‘‘Assessing U.S. Policy
Priorities in the Middle East’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
ENSURING EFFECTIVE AND EFFICIENT
OPERATIONS: A REVIEW OF THE FISCAL
YEAR 2020 DHS MANAGEMENT
DIRECTORATE BUDGET REQUEST
Committee on Homeland Security: Subcommittee on
Oversight, Management, and Accountability held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Ensuring Effective and Efficient
Operations: A Review of the Fiscal Year 2020 DHS
Management Directorate Budget Request’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Chip Fulghum, Deputy Under
Secretary for Management, Department of Homeland
Security; and Chris Currie, Director, Homeland Se-
curity and Justice Team, Government Accountability
Office.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
markup on a Resolution Authorizing Issuance of
Subpoenas. A Resolution Authorizing Issuance of
Subpoenas was agreed to, as amended.
SECURING THE FUTURE OF AMERICAN
AGRICULTURE
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Immi-
gration and Citizenship held a hearing entitled ‘‘Se-
curing the Future of American Agriculture’’. Testi-
mony was heard from public witnesses.
EXAMINING THE SPENDING PRIORITIES
AND MISSION OF THE NATIONAL PARK
SERVICE
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on Na-
tional Parks, Forests, and Public Lands held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Examining the Spending Priorities and
Mission of the National Park Service’’. Testimony
was heard from Dan Smith, Deputy Director, Na-
tional Park Service, Department of the Interior.
LEGISLATIVE MEASURES
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee for In-
digenous Peoples of the United States held a hearing
on H.R. 375, to amend the Act of June 18, 1934,
to reaffirm the authority of the Secretary of the Inte-
rior to take land into trust for Indian Tribes, and for
other purposes; H.R. 312, the ‘‘Mashpee
Wampanoag 5 Tribe Reservation Reaffirmation
Act’’; and legislation on the RESPECT Act. Testi-
mony was heard from Representatives Cole and
Keating; Claire Richards, Executive Counsel to the
Governor, Rhode Island; and public witnesses.
THE SPECIAL INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR
AFGHANISTAN RECONSTRUCTION’S 2019
HIGH-RISK LIST
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
National Security held a hearing entitled ‘‘The Spe-
cial Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruc-
tion’s 2019 High-Risk List’’. Testimony was heard
from John F. Sopko, Special Inspector General for
Afghanistan Reconstruction.
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
BUDGET REQUEST FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘U.S. Department of Veterans Af-
fairs Budget Request for Fiscal Year 2020’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Robert Wilkie, Secretary, De-
partment of Veterans Affairs; and public witnesses.
FISCAL YEAR 2020 INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY BUDGET REQUEST
OVERVIEW
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence: Full Com-
mittee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Fiscal Year 2020 In-
telligence Community Budget Request Overview’’.
Testimony was heard from Sue Gordon, Principal
Deputy Director of National Intelligence; and Joseph
Kernan, Undersecretary of Defense for Intelligence.
This hearing was closed.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03AP9.REC D03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D353
April 3, 2019
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
APRIL 4, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Edu-
cation, and Related Agencies, to hold hearings to examine
proposed budget estimates and justification for fiscal year
2020 for the Department of Health and Human Services,
10 a.m., SD–124.
Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine
the posture of the Department of the Air Force in review
of the Defense Authorization Request for fiscal year 2020
and the Future Years Defense Program, 9:30 a.m.,
SD–G50.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Security, to hold hearings to examine Fed-
eral maritime agencies, focusing on ensuring a safe, se-
cure, and competitive future, 10:15 a.m., SD–562.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: business
meeting to consider the nominations of David Bernhardt,
of Virginia, to be Secretary, and Susan Combs, of Texas,
to be an Assistant Secretary, both of the Department of
the Interior, and Aimee Kathryn Jorjani, of Wisconsin, to
be Chairman of the Advisory Council on Historic Preser-
vation, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
to hold hearings to examine migration at the United
States Southern border, 9:30 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: business meeting to consider
the nominations of Daniel P. Collins, and Kenneth Kiyul
Lee, both of California, both to be a United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit, James Wesley Hendrix, and
Mark T. Pittman, both to be a United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Texas, Sean D. Jordan,
to be United States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Texas, Ronald D. Vitiello, of Illinois, to be an
Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, Virgil Madden,
of Indiana, to be a Commissioner of the United States Pa-
role Commission, and Nick Edward Proffitt, of Virginia,
to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of
Virginia, Department of Justice, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to hold closed hearings to
examine certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
House
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies, budget
hearing on the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 9:30 a.m.,
2359 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies, budget hearing on the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, and Bureau
of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, 9:30 a.m.,
2008 Rayburn.
Committee on Armed Services, Subcommittee on Tactical
and Land Forces, hearing entitled ‘‘Navy and Marine
Corps Tactical Aviation and Ground Modernization’’, 9
a.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Readiness, hearing entitled ‘‘Mis-
managed Military Family Housing Programs: What is the
Recovery Plan?’’, 9 a.m., 2212 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Full Committee, con-
tinue markup on H.R. 1644, the ‘‘Save the Internet Act
of 2019’’; H.R. 1781, the ‘‘Payment Commission Data
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 938, the ‘‘BLOCKING Act of
2019’’; H.R. 1520, the ‘‘Purple Book Continuity Act of
2019’’; H.R.1503, the ‘‘Orange Book Transparency Act of
2019’’; H.R. 1499, the ‘‘Protecting Consumer Access to
Generic Drugs Act of 2019’’; H.R. 965, the ‘‘CREATES
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1385, the ‘‘SAVE Act’’; H.R. 1386,
the ‘‘ENROLL Act of 2019’’; H.R. 987, the ‘‘MORE
Health Education Act’’; H.R. 1010, a bill to provide that
the rule entitled ‘‘Short-Term, Limited Duration Insur-
ance’’ shall have no force or effect; H.R. 986, the ‘‘Pro-
tecting Americans with Preexisting Conditions Act of
2019’’; H.R. 1425, the ‘‘State Health Care Premium Re-
duction Act’’; and H.R. 9, the ‘‘Climate Action Now
Act’’, 9 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Full Committee, hearing
on H.R. 1904, the ‘‘Indian Water Rights Settlement Ex-
tension Act’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Generation Climate: Young Leaders
Urge Climate Action Now’’, 9 a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03AP9.REC D03APPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D354 April 3, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
11 a.m., Thursday, April 4
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will resume consideration
of the nomination of Mark Anthony Calabria, of Virginia,
to be Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency.
At 11:45 a.m., Senate will vote on confirmation of the
nomination of Roy Kalman Altman, of Florida, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern District of
Florida.
Following disposition of the nomination of Roy
Kalman Altman, Senate will vote on the motion to in-
voke cloture on the nomination of Mark Anthony
Calabria, of Virginia, to be Director of the Federal Hous-
ing Finance Agency.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
9 a.m., Thursday, April 4
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: Complete consideration of H.R.
1585—Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of
2019.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue.
HOUSE
Bacon, Don, Nebr., E394
Blumenauer, Earl, Ore., E397
Bonamici, Suzanne, Ore., E396
Budd, Ted, N.C., E393
Deutch, Theodore E., Fla., E396
Dunn, Neal P., Fla., E396
Estes, Ron, Kans., E397
Fitzpatrick, Brian K., Pa., E396
Hurd, Will, Tex., E399
Lipinski, Daniel, Ill., E399
McAdams, Ben, Utah, E393
McEachin, A. Donald, Va., E393, E395, E399
Neal, Richard E., Mass., E393
Palazzo, Steven M., Miss., E398
Pascrell, Bill, Jr., N.J., E395, E398
Payne, Donald M., Jr., N.J., E396
Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E393, E393, E394, E395, E395,
E397, E398, E398, E399, E400
Richmond, Cedric L., La., E397, E399
Shalala, Donna E., Fla., E394
Torres, Norma J., Calif., E398
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E395, E398
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:23 Apr 04, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D03AP9.REC D03APPT1
