Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H5777
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, JULY 15, 2019 No. 118
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. GOMEZ).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
July 15, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JIMMY
GOMEZ to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
RECOGNIZING ACHIEVEMENTS OF
ELEANOR PATTERSON BARBER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. BUTTERFIELD) for 5
minutes.
Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the achieve-
ments of a great public servant, a
mother, a wife, a friend to many, and
the longest serving employee of the
Washington County North Carolina
School System, Mrs. Eleanor Patterson
Barber. Some refer to her as ‘‘Mother
Barber.’’
Mrs. Barber, Mr. Speaker, the daugh-
ter of Charles Edgar Patterson, a West
Virginia Pentecostal preacher, and Lu-
cille Patterson, a Georgia native from
the Southlands, was born in Indianap-
olis, Indiana, on November 13, 1933.
A graduate of the historic Crispus
Attucks High School, Mrs. Barber
trained as a concert pianist and grad-
uated from Lain Business College in In-
dianapolis. She served in the Civil Air
Patrol, where she met her husband, the
Reverend William J. Barber I, a min-
ister, educator, and activist with deep
roots in eastern North Carolina.
With a strong passion and conviction
for justice and equality, the Barber
couple, in 1966, relocated to eastern
North Carolina to play an essential
role in the integration of the county
schools. Though it had been 12 years
since the Brown decision, many South-
ern schools remained fully separated
by race.
While the decision to move south-
ward from a northern metropolitan
city meant that their only son at the
time, William J. Barber, II, would
enter kindergarten at a segregated
school, they believed that this sacrifice
would, nonetheless, serve the greater
good for their family, Washington
County, and the State.
Her little boy, William, some refer to
him as Billy, is now internationally
known as Bishop William J. Barber, II,
who was the architect of the Moral
Monday movement and is now the
founder and leader of Repairers of the
Breach, or the Poor People’s National
Campaign.
In 1966, Mother Barber began working
as the office manager at the Wash-
ington County Union Elementary
School, while her husband taught
science at the school. In 1971, when
Mrs. Barber began her duties at Plym-
outh High School, she made history as
the first African American office man-
ager at a desegregated school in that
county.
Mrs. Barber’s passion and conviction
have led her to impact generations of
students over her 53 years of service.
She has served 11 principals, and in
some cases, she has watched students
and their parents and grandparents
matriculate through the school. She
also helped teach countless young peo-
ple how to play the concert piano,
often when they didn’t have the re-
sources to afford the lessons. She has
led choirs and served as the bacca-
laureate musician for the high school
for many, many years, and she con-
tinues.
In her more than half a century of
service to North Carolina’s public
schools, I, today, applaud Mrs. Barber
for her years of dedicated and com-
mitted service to our Nation’s most
precious resources: our children.
Mrs. Eleanor Barber is a history
maker, barrier breaker, and a remark-
able example of the transformative
power of a willing spirit and a dedi-
cated public servant.
On behalf of the United States House
of Representatives and the people of
the First District, including the people
of Washington County and the town of
Roper, where she resides, I express ap-
preciation to Mrs. Eleanor Patterson
Barber for 53 years of committed serv-
ice to the Washington County, North
Carolina, public schools.
Thank you to Mrs. Barber for your
perseverance and your willingness to
give and to go the extra mile to pour
into the youth all that you had to
offer.
Mrs. Barber, without exception,
earned the right to be honored here
today on the floor of the House of Rep-
resentatives. It is my hope that God
will continue to bless and keep Mrs.
Barber and her family for years to
come.
I will say, Mr. Speaker, in closing,
that Mrs. Barber has a wonderful fam-
ily. She gave birth to two biological
children. They were both boys. The
first was Bishop William J. Barber, II.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.000 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5778 July 15, 2019
Bishop Barber is married to Rebecca
Barber, and they have five children:
Sharralle; William, III; Benjamin Jo-
seph; Rebecca Eleanor; and Andrew
Willard—five wonderful, delightful
children.
The other sibling deceased earlier
this year. He lived in Grifton, Georgia.
His name was Charles Edgar Barber,
and he was survived by three children:
Shakile, Malik, and Quentin.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate you allow-
ing me time this morning to celebrate
and to recognize a great American who
has served well over these many years.
f
SUPPORT FOR OUR
SERVICEMEMBERS IN THE NDAA
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. CISNEROS) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, last
week, we passed a National Defense
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2020.
Working with my colleagues for over 20
hours on the House Armed Services
Committee to mark up this bill in the
late hours of the night and the early
hours of the next day was all worth it.
Mr. Speaker, with the passage of this
year’s NDAA, we have fulfilled our du-
ties to ensure our military’s readiness,
strengthened our national security,
and eased our servicemembers’ transi-
tion to civilian life.
I am proud to have helped secure 17
floor amendments for the NDAA, with
more than half of those offered on a bi-
partisan basis. These provisions sup-
ported programs that are critical to
servicemembers living in the 39th Con-
gressional District.
A major priority of mine is ensuring
that our servicemembers have the sup-
port they need when they transition
back to civilian life. I was proud to
colead the bipartisan Work for War-
riors provision with my colleagues,
Representatives PAUL COOK, ELISSA
SLOTKIN, and MARK TAKANO.
The Work for Warriors model has a
proven track record of helping our vet-
erans find jobs, providing job place-
ment assistance to unemployed
Guardsmen, Reservists, military
spouses, and veterans to not only help
them provide for their families, but
also facilitate their successful transi-
tion back to civilian life.
Another priority of mine was to im-
prove the quality of healthcare for
servicemembers, especially mental
health programs and women’s
healthcare services. I am proud to have
secured a number of provisions that
take care of military families by ex-
panding military housing and improv-
ing access to healthcare services.
Specifically, I was proud to work
with Congresswoman CHRISSY
HOULAHAN to expand transition assist-
ance for women servicemembers. This
will ensure our servicewomen are bet-
ter equipped with the healthcare re-
sources they need as they leave mili-
tary service.
Also, I am hopeful that the amend-
ment my colleagues and I included to
address sexual assault at all levels of
our military will help our servicemem-
bers and veterans receive the respect
and justice they deserve. The high rate
of sexual assault in the military is un-
acceptable and needs to be addressed
immediately.
Even though DOD spends millions on
sexual assault prevention programs,
the number of assaults has jumped dra-
matically since 2010. We owe it to our
servicemembers and veterans to deter-
mine why the current programs have
been failing, and we need to create a
new, effective approach to this prob-
lem.
Because, in exchange for their serv-
ice, our Nation took on the responsi-
bility to care for each servicemember’s
health, both physical and mental, that
is why I prioritized provisions to ad-
dress the suicide epidemic currently
facing our servicemembers and vet-
erans. We are losing servicemembers
and veterans to addiction and suicide
at alarming rates. It is unacceptable
that this epidemic is only getting
worse.
I worked with my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle to secure language
that will help prevent servicemembers
from reaching at-risk status and en-
sure that at-risk servicemembers are
identified and able to receive the care
they deserve.
Also, I am proud to have supported
an amendment with Congresswoman
JACKIE SPEIER to protect our
transgender servicemembers. As a
Navy veteran, I was saddened by our
government’s willingness to discrimi-
nate against individuals who had the
courage, spirit, and commitment to
serve our country in uniform.
Anyone who has the bravery to serve
our country should be allowed to do so,
and I stand firmly against the adminis-
tration’s ban on transgender service-
members. I will continue to fight
against this hateful and bigoted policy
until the President and his administra-
tion understand that transgender serv-
icemembers have the right to their dig-
nity, and they have the right to serve.
Finally, I would be remiss if I didn’t
mention that the NDAA reaffirms our
constitutional authority over the use
of military force. With this provision,
Congress reasserts our congressional
authority and its duty to our country
and our servicemembers, and it makes
clear to the President that there is no
current authorization to use military
force against Iran. We understand how
Iran destabilizes the region, and it is
our responsibility in Congress to en-
sure that the U.S. does not enter into a
conflict without a strategy.
In closing, while I have said much on
what this House has accomplished with
this bill, I would like to end with this:
I thank our servicemembers, civilian
military personnel, and all the na-
tional security professionals who sup-
port our Armed Services in my district,
in our country, and around the world.
It is an honor to represent them in
Congress to ensure the promises made
here are kept for our servicemembers
and our veterans.
f
PASS OUR 2020 NDAA BILL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Connecticut (Mr. COURTNEY) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, last
Friday, the House of Representatives
passed the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for 2020, a measure which sets
policy for the folks who wear the uni-
form of this country.
The U.S. Congress has actually
passed a defense authorization act
every year for the last 57 years. This
year, if we all continue to work to-
gether, we can make it 58 years run-
ning.
Again, this is a measure which sets
everything from military pay—a 3.1
percent pay raise for the military, the
largest pay increase in the last 10
years—to setting the ground rules for
military acquisition, whether it is re-
capitalizing our Navy or buying the
new F–35 planes for the Air Force. It is
a large, sprawling bill which covers,
again, all aspects of U.S. defense policy
for the upcoming year.
Included in this measure was an
amendment that I offered for which, on
Friday evening, the Iraq and Afghan
Veterans of America issued a strong
statement of support in the wake of
passage of the bill.
What my amendment did is it offset
a policy decision that was made in July
of 2018 by the Trump administration
which cut off the ability of long-serv-
ing members of the military to transfer
their GI Bill educational benefits to a
spouse or dependent. Again, the IAVA,
which TIME Magazine has described as
the most important organization rep-
resenting a new generation of vet-
erans—what my amendment did was it
eliminated what IAVA described as a
shortsighted policy change announced
by the Department of Defense in July
2015, which would have limited trans-
ferability to servicemembers with less
than 16 years of Active-Duty service
and excluded servicemembers who had
served for nearly the entirety of the
war on terror.
In 2008, we changed the GI bill, recog-
nizing, again, that we have an all-vol-
unteer force and that the GI Bill,
which goes back to Franklin Roosevelt
signing it 75 years ago, had deterio-
rated over time. We restored the value
of the educational benefit, and we cre-
ated, for the first time, the ability of a
servicemember to transfer, on a one-
time basis only, the educational ben-
efit to a spouse or child.
Again, what this did was it took the
burden of those who were serving par-
ticularly long periods of time in our
military at great economic sacrifices
the ability to at least take one family
member’s educational benefits for
higher education.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.002 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5779
July 15, 2019
Again, my amendment, which was
part of the bill that passed last Friday
night, would restore the full intent of
the Congress in 2008 and reverse the
Trump administration’s decision to cut
off that transferability, which was
issued last July.
Again, we still have work to do. We
have a conference to build with the
Senate, and we, obviously, have to get
it to the President for signature. We
have done it for 57 straight years, and
we should make it 58 this year by pass-
ing the 2020 NDAA bill.
PUBLIC SERVICE LOAN FORGIVENESS PROGRAM
Mr. COURTNEY. Mr. Speaker, there
are also things happening over at the
U.S. Department of Education regard-
ing higher education which are of great
concern.
On Thursday, the American Federa-
tion of Teachers filed a lawsuit in the
District Court of Washington, D.C., ba-
sically asking the court to rule that
the Department’s foot-dragging in
terms of discharging student loan debt
through the Public Service Loan For-
giveness Program has got to come to
an end.
In 2007, we passed the College Class
Reduction Act which set up a mecha-
nism for those who serve in critical
public service occupations, such as
teaching, nurses, doctors, police, pros-
ecutors, social workers, veterinarians,
and people who work in nonprofit orga-
nizations. If they make their student
loan payments consistently over a 10-
year period, under the College Class
Reduction Act, they could apply for a
discharge of the balance of their stu-
dent loan, recognizing that these are
people who are going into occupations
for which the payment of student loan
debt can be too onerous.
b 1215
So, 2007 was the year that this pro-
gram was supposed to kick into effect.
As the Government Accountability Of-
fice determined, since that period—and
these are our figures from 2019—7,555
borrowers have submitted applications
to have their loans discharged. Only 864
have been approved, and only 516 bor-
rowers, less than 1 percent, have had
their loans forgiven.
Again, the loan servicers working for
the Department of Education, as deter-
mined by GAO, are giving bad informa-
tion and are not crediting the monthly
loan payments that teachers and
nurses and others have been faithfully
making, relying on this program. They
built their employment history around
the opportunity, knowing that that
student loan debt could be discharged.
Again, what we are seeing are shock-
ing figures from the Department of
Education that have not followed
through and implemented this law.
Not a great surprise to those of us on
the Committee on Education and Labor
because the Trump administration, for
the last 3 years, has submitted budgets
that would eliminate the Public Serv-
ice Loan Forgiveness Program.
We have to change this administra-
tion’s policies toward higher education.
We did it on Friday, and we have to do
it with public service loan forgiveness
to reward the good guys, the people
who are out there doing critical work
for our Nation.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 16
minutes p.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. GARCIA of Texas) at 2
p.m.
f
PRAYER
Archbishop Anoushavan Tanielian,
Armenian Apostolic Church of Amer-
ica, New York, New York, offered the
following prayer:
Heavenly Father, Your children gath-
ered here, in this sanctuary of democ-
racy and freedom, thank Thee for Your
providential care full of visible and in-
visible blessings.
Lead this august assembly in Your
spirit to accomplish the mission vested
upon her.
Grant Your wisdom and love upon
the Members of this assembly to follow
Thy will and fulfill their awesome re-
sponsibility toward the ‘‘land of the
free’’ and the world at large.
May justice and peace be forth-
coming from their decisions, as well as
prosperity and joy to prevail among
mankind.
Let this and every day be marked as
a masterpiece in the lives of all those
who serve the people for Your glory, so
that they may be worthy of hearing
Your calling: ‘‘Come you that are
blessed by my Father, inherit the king-
dom prepared for you from the founda-
tion of the world.’’
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from New York (Mr. BRIN-
DISI) come forward and lead the House
in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. BRINDISI led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
IN CELEBRATION OF 200TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF COLGATE UNIVER-
SITY
(Mr. BRINDISI asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BRINDISI. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to join our community in
celebrating the 200th anniversary of
Colgate University’s founding. Located
in Madison County in upstate New
York, Colgate was officially estab-
lished by New York State in 1819.
For 200 years, the university has ex-
emplified all the best American higher
education has to offer. It has produced
many graduates of national acclaim,
including business professionals, com-
munity leaders, Members of Congress—
including two current Members of Con-
gress—and other government officials.
Colgate has taught some of the
brightest minds in our country and
now educates more than 2,900 students
each year in 56 different majors. I am
proud to represent this excellent insti-
tution in Congress, and I join the
Colgate community in celebrating
their bicentennial.
f
LET’S END THE WIDOW’S TAX
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, last week, House
Democrats had the chance to bring the
Military Surviving Spouses Equity Act
on the floor to repeal the widow’s tax.
Roll Call described, today, the bill as
a ‘‘broadly supported bipartisan bill’’
with 365 cosponsors. This was the first
legislation to achieve the Consensus
Calendar and would have received a
standalone vote, having 86 percent co-
sponsorship.
Roll Call said: ‘‘Wilson’s bill, the
Military Surviving Spouses Equity
Act, would end a disparity between
government payments made to sur-
viving spouses of servicemembers who
die on Active Duty.
‘‘The ‘widow’s tax’ . . . requires the
surviving spouses to forfeit much of
their DOD Survivor Benefit Plan annu-
ity when they receive Dependency and
Indemnity Compensation from the VA.
‘‘The Rules Committee did not give
Wilson a heads-up that they were going
to put language in the NDAA rules to
remove his bill from the Consensus
Calendar.’’
This was a partisan political gim-
mick. It is not too late to bring it back
up as a standalone bill to help the
spouses.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.004 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5780 July 15, 2019
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 2:45 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 5 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1447
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. MCGOVERN) at 2 o’clock
and 47 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
UNITED STATES-NORTHERN TRI-
ANGLE ENHANCED ENGAGEMENT
ACT
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2615) to support the people of
Central America and strengthen United
States national security by addressing
the root causes of migration from El
Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2615
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘United States-Northern Triangle En-
hanced Engagement Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Report on drivers of migration from
the Northern Triangle to the
United States.
Sec. 3. Actions to promote inclusive eco-
nomic growth and development
in the Northern Triangle.
Sec. 4. Actions to combat corruption in the
Northern Triangle.
Sec. 5. Actions to strengthen democratic in-
stitutions in the Northern Tri-
angle.
Sec. 6. Actions to improve security condi-
tions in the Northern Triangle.
Sec. 7. Authorization of appropriations for
assistance to Central America.
Sec. 8. Conditions on assistance to the
Northern Triangle.
Sec. 9. Enhancing engagement with the Gov-
ernment of Mexico on the
Northern Triangle.
Sec. 10. Targeting assistance to address mi-
gration from communities in
the Northern Triangle.
Sec. 11. Targeted sanctions to fight corrup-
tion in the Northern Triangle.
Sec. 12. Requirement to provide advance no-
tification to Congress of secu-
rity assistance to Northern Tri-
angle countries.
Sec. 13. Definitions.
Sec. 14. Determination of budgetary effects.
SEC. 2. REPORT ON DRIVERS OF MIGRATION
FROM THE NORTHERN TRIANGLE TO
THE UNITED STATES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in coordination with
the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development and
the heads of other relevant Federal agencies,
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report on the drivers of
migration from each of the Northern Tri-
angle countries and the progress United
States foreign assistance is making in ad-
dressing such drivers.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required under
subsection (a) shall include the following ele-
ments for each of the Northern Triangle
countries, with data disaggregated by mu-
nicipality, age, and gender, as necessary:
(1) Information and data on all criminal
activities, including drug trafficking, extor-
tion, trafficking in persons, and gender-based
violence, with particular emphasis on such
activities carried out by criminal gangs and
transnational criminal organizations such as
MS–13 and the 18th Street Gang.
(2) Data on the extent to which criminal
activities referred to in paragraph (1) are re-
ported to government authorities and the
number of perpetrators investigated, appre-
hended, prosecuted, or convicted, versus the
number of known perpetrators who are not
so investigated, apprehended, prosecuted, or
convicted.
(3) Data on children and young adults forc-
ibly recruited for criminal activities referred
to in paragraph (1), including the extent to
which government authorities received re-
ports of forced recruitment.
(4) Data on internal displacement due to
criminal activities referred to in paragraph
(1), and services, including temporary shel-
ters, provided to those displaced by violence.
(5) Data on gender-based violence by region
and municipality and descriptions of gender-
based violence and domestic violence trends,
including gender-based violence against in-
digenous women, and correlation to outward
migration.
(6) Descriptions of the obstacles (including
capacity gaps within the criminal justice
systems) to resolving gender-based violence
cases and deterring violence against women
and children.
(7) Information on the availability of trau-
ma-informed legal and social services, in-
cluding in shelters, for victims of gender-
based violence.
(8) Data on the number of police officers,
prosecutors, court personnel, and specialized
units trained in violence against women and
children, including data on the number of fe-
male police officers in each of the Northern
Triangle countries.
(9) Data on reported cases of abuse, includ-
ing extrajudicial executions, torture, forced
disappearance, and arbitrary detention, al-
legedly committed by members of the secu-
rity forces, and collusion between members
of such security forces and gangs and other
criminal groups, including transnational
criminal organizations, and the number of
perpetrators investigated, apprehended,
prosecuted, or convicted, versus the number
of known perpetrators not so investigated,
apprehended, prosecuted, or convicted.
(10) Descriptions of the strategies being
implemented to guarantee the rights of in-
digenous and rural communities.
(11) Descriptions of the strategies being
implemented to address forced recruitment
of children and youth by gangs,
transnational criminal organizations, and
other criminal groups, and how such strate-
gies are complemented by United States ef-
forts.
(12) Descriptions of the strategies being
implemented by the governments of each of
the Northern Triangle countries to address
corruption and organized crime and how
such strategies are complemented by United
States efforts.
(13) Data on the effectiveness of anti-cor-
ruption strategies, including through bilat-
eral and multilateral anti-corruption assist-
ance.
(14) An assessment of the extent of corrup-
tion, including regarding narcotics traf-
ficking and illicit campaign financing, a de-
scription of steps taken and to be taken to
impose sanctions pursuant to the Global
Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability
Act (22 U.S.C. 2656 note), and a list of senior
officials who are known or credibly alleged
to have committed or facilitated such cor-
ruption, not including individuals who have
already been sentenced to crimes in criminal
courts.
(15) Descriptions of operating conditions
for civil society organizations and inde-
pendent media in each of the Northern Tri-
angle countries, and data on harassment and
attacks on civil society and independent
media from political and criminal actors.
(16) An assessment of information sharing
regarding known or suspected terrorists and
other individuals and groups that pose a po-
tential threat to United States national se-
curity that are crossing through or residing
in the Northern Triangle.
(17) Descriptions of the obstacles (includ-
ing capacity gaps within the criminal justice
systems) to resolving criminal cases and cor-
ruption and deterring violence.
(18) Data on the capacity of child welfare
systems in each Northern Triangle country
to protect unaccompanied children, includ-
ing runaways and refugee returnees.
(19) Data on the governance capacity of
Northern Triangle country governments at
the local and national level, including abil-
ity to deliver basic citizen services, includ-
ing tax collection and citizen security.
(20) Data on the rates of extortion, the im-
pact of extortion on local businesses and
economies, and the number of extortion
cases investigated, prosecuted, or convicted.
(21) Data on the extent to which the North-
ern Triangle governments are promoting
economic growth and educational opportuni-
ties, improving health outcomes, and ad-
dressing the underlying causes of poverty
and inequality through public policies.
(22) Data on the activities of China and
Russia, an assessment of the threat of such
activities to United States interests, and the
impact of such activities on irregular migra-
tion.
(23) An analysis of the manner and extent
to which assistance made available to the
Northern Triangle countries in fiscal years
2015 through 2017 were expended, particularly
including—
(A) the extent to which funds made avail-
able to private and nongovernmental entities
to provide such assistance were subsequently
expended on activities conducted within such
countries; and
(B) the manner in which such funds were
expended on activities in other countries.
(24) Data on the geographic regions where
highest incidence of violence occurs against
women and children.
(25) An evaluation of the extent to which
women and children who are victims of vio-
lence have access to protection and justice.
(26) An evaluation of the capacity of the
justice system in each Northern Triangle
country to respond to reports of femicide,
sexual assault, domestic violence, traf-
ficking, or child abuse and neglect, and to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.007 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5781
July 15, 2019
hold perpetrators of such crimes account-
able.
(c) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The report re-
quired under subsection (a) shall be made
publicly available on the website of the De-
partment of State.
SEC. 3. ACTIONS TO PROMOTE INCLUSIVE ECO-
NOMIC GROWTH AND DEVELOP-
MENT IN THE NORTHERN TRIANGLE.
(a) SECRETARY OF STATE PRIORITIZATION.—
The Secretary of State shall prioritize eco-
nomic development in the Northern Triangle
countries by carrying out the following ini-
tiatives:
(1) Supporting market-based solutions to
eliminate constraints to inclusive economic
growth, including through support for in-
creased digital connectivity and the use of
financial technology, and private sector and
civil society-led efforts to create jobs and
foster economic prosperity.
(2) Addressing underlying causes of poverty
and inequality, including by improving nu-
trition and food security, providing health
resources and access to clean water, sanita-
tion, hygiene, and shelter, and improving
livelihoods.
(3) Responding to immediate humanitarian
needs by increasing humanitarian assist-
ance, including through access to clean
water, sanitation, hygiene, and shelter, im-
proving livelihoods, and by providing health
resources and improving nutrition and food
security.
(4) Supporting conservation and commu-
nity resilience and strengthening commu-
nity preparedness for natural disasters and
other external shocks.
(5) Identifying, as appropriate, a role for
the United States International Develop-
ment Finance Corporation, the Millennium
Challenge Corporation (MCC), the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment, and the United States private sector
in supporting efforts to increase private sec-
tor investment and strengthen economic
prosperity.
(6) Expanding comprehensive reintegration
mechanisms for repatriated individuals once
returned to their countries of origin and sup-
porting efforts by the private sector to hire
and train eligible returnees.
(7) Establishing monitoring and
verification services to determine the well-
being of repatriated children in order to de-
termine if United States protection and
screening functioned effectively in identi-
fying persecuted and trafficked children.
(8) Supporting efforts to increase domestic
resource mobilization, including through
strengthening of tax collection and enforce-
ment and legal arbitration mechanisms.
(b) STRATEGY.—
(1) ELEMENTS.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in coordination with
the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development, the
President and Chief Executive Officer of the
Inter-American Foundation, the Director of
the United States Trade and Development
Agency, the Chief Executive Officer of the
United States International Development Fi-
nance Corporation, and the heads of other
relevant Federal agencies, shall submit to
the appropriate congressional committees a
five-year strategy to support inclusive eco-
nomic growth and development in the North-
ern Triangle countries by carrying out the
initiatives described in subsection (a).
(2) CONSULTATION.—In developing the strat-
egy required under paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary of State shall consult with non-
governmental organizations in the Northern
Triangle countries and the United States.
(3) BENCHMARKS.—The strategy required
under paragraph (1) shall include annual
benchmarks to track the strategy’s progress
in curbing irregular migration from the
Northern Triangle to the United States.
(4) PUBLIC DIPLOMACY.—The strategy re-
quired under paragraph (1) shall include a
public diplomacy strategy for educating citi-
zens of the Northern Triangle countries
about United States assistance and its bene-
fits to them, and informing such citizens of
the dangers of illegal migration to the
United States.
(5) ANNUAL PROGRESS UPDATES.—Not later
than one year after the submission of the
strategy required under paragraph (1) and
annually thereafter for four years, the Sec-
retary of State shall provide the appropriate
congressional committees with a written de-
scription of progress made in meeting the
benchmarks established in the strategy.
(6) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The strategy re-
quired under paragraph (1) shall be made
publicly available on the website of the De-
partment of State.
(c) REPORT ON ESTABLISHING AN INVEST-
MENT FUND FOR THE NORTHERN TRIANGLE
COUNTRIES AND SOUTHERN MEXICO.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Chief Executive Officer of the
United States International Development Fi-
nance Corporation shall submit to the appro-
priate congressional committees a detailed
report assessing the feasibility, costs, and
benefits of the Corporation establishing an
investment fund to promote economic and
social development in the Northern Triangle
countries and southern Mexico.
SEC. 4. ACTIONS TO COMBAT CORRUPTION IN
THE NORTHERN TRIANGLE.
(a) SECRETARY OF STATE PRIORITIZATION.—
The Secretary of State shall prioritize ef-
forts to combat corruption in the Northern
Triangle countries by carrying out the fol-
lowing initiatives:
(1) Supporting anti-corruption efforts, in-
cluding by strengthening national justice
systems and attorneys general, providing
technical assistance to financial institutions
to identify money laundering and other fi-
nancial crimes, breaking up financial hold-
ings of organized criminal syndicates, in-
cluding illegally acquired lands and proceeds
from illegal activities, and supporting inde-
pendent media and investigative reporting.
(2) Supporting anti-corruption efforts
through bilateral assistance and complemen-
tary support through multilateral anti-cor-
ruption mechanisms when necessary.
(3) Encouraging cooperation agreements
between the Department of State and rel-
evant United States Government agencies
and attorneys general to fight corruption.
(4) Supporting efforts to strengthen special
prosecutorial offices and financial institu-
tions to combat corruption, money laun-
dering, financial crimes, extortion, human
rights crimes, asset forfeiture, and criminal
analysis.
(5) Supporting initiatives to advance judi-
cial integrity and improve security for mem-
bers of the judicial sector.
(6) Supporting transparent, merit-based se-
lection processes for prosecutors and judges
and the development of professional and
merit-based civil services.
(7) Supporting the establishment or
strengthening of methods, procedures, and
expectations for internal and external con-
trol mechanisms for the security and police
services and judiciary.
(8) Supporting the adoption of appropriate
technologies to combat corruption in public
finance.
(b) STRATEGY.—
(1) ELEMENTS.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in coordination with
the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development and
the heads of other relevant Federal agencies,
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a five-year strategy to
combat corruption in the Northern Triangle
countries by carrying out the initiatives de-
scribed in subsection (a).
(2) CONSULTATION.—In developing the strat-
egy required under paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary of State shall consult with non-
governmental organizations in the Northern
Triangle countries and the United States.
(3) BENCHMARKS.—The strategy required
under paragraph (1) shall include annual
benchmarks to track the strategy’s progress
in curbing irregular migration from the
Northern Triangle to the United States.
(4) PUBLIC DIPLOMACY.—The strategy re-
quired under paragraph (1) shall include a
public diplomacy strategy for educating citi-
zens of the Northern Triangle countries
about United States assistance and its bene-
fits to them, and informing such citizens of
the dangers of illegal migration to the
United States.
(5) ANNUAL PROGRESS UPDATES.—Not later
than one year after the submission of the
strategy required under paragraph (1) and
annually thereafter for four years, the Sec-
retary of State shall provide the appropriate
congressional committees with a written de-
scription of progress made in meeting the
benchmarks established in the strategy.
(6) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The strategy re-
quired under paragraph (1) shall be made
publicly available on the website of the De-
partment of State.
(c) DESIGNATION OF A SENIOR RULE OF LAW
ADVISOR FOR THE NORTHERN TRIANGLE IN THE
BUREAU OF WESTERN HEMISPHERE AFFAIRS.—
The Secretary of State shall designate in the
Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs of the
Department of State a Senior Rule of Law
Advisor for the Northern Triangle who shall
lead diplomatic engagement with the North-
ern Triangle countries in support of demo-
cratic governance, anti-corruption efforts,
and the rule of law in all aspects of United
States policy towards the countries of the
Northern Triangle, including carrying out
the initiatives described in subsection (a)
and developing the strategy required under
subsection (b). The individual designated in
accordance with this subsection shall be a
Department of State employee in the Bureau
of Western Hemisphere Affairs.
SEC. 5. ACTIONS TO STRENGTHEN DEMOCRATIC
INSTITUTIONS IN THE NORTHERN
TRIANGLE.
(a) SECRETARY OF STATE PRIORITIZATION.—
The Secretary of State shall prioritize
strengthening democratic institutions, good
governance, human rights, and the rule of
law in the Northern Triangle countries by
carrying out the following initiatives:
(1) Providing support to strengthen govern-
ment institutions and actors at the local and
national levels to provide services and re-
spond to citizen needs through transparent,
inclusive, and democratic processes.
(2) Supporting efforts to strengthen access
to information laws and reform laws that
currently limit access to information.
(3) Financing efforts to build the capacity
of independent media with a specific focus on
professional investigative journalism.
(4) Ensuring that threats and attacks on
journalists and human rights defenders are
fully investigated and perpetrators are held
accountable.
(5) Developing the capacity of civil society
to conduct oversight and accountability
mechanisms at the national and local levels.
(6) Training political actors committed to
democratic principles.
(7) Strengthening electoral institutions
and processes to ensure free, fair, and trans-
parent elections.
(8) Advancing conservation principles and
the rule of law to address multiple factors,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.002 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5782 July 15, 2019
including the impacts of illegal cattle ranch-
ing and smuggling as drivers of deforest-
ation.
(b) STRATEGY.—
(1) ELEMENTS.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in coordination with
the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development and
the heads of other relevant Federal agencies,
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a strategy to support
democratic governance in the Northern Tri-
angle countries by carrying out the initia-
tives described in subsection (a).
(2) CONSULTATION.—In developing the strat-
egy required under paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary of State shall consult with non-
governmental organizations in the Northern
Triangle countries and the United States.
(3) BENCHMARKS.—The strategy required
under paragraph (1) shall include annual
benchmarks to track the strategy’s progress
in curbing irregular migration from the
Northern Triangle to the United States.
(4) PUBLIC DIPLOMACY.—The strategy re-
quired under paragraph (1) shall include a
public diplomacy strategy for educating citi-
zens of the Northern Triangle countries
about United States assistance and its bene-
fits to them, and informing such citizens of
the dangers of illegal migration to the
United States.
(5) ANNUAL PROGRESS UPDATES.—Not later
than one year after the submission of the
strategy required under paragraph (1) and
annually thereafter for four years, the Sec-
retary of State shall provide the appropriate
congressional committees with a written de-
scription of progress made in meeting the
benchmarks established in the strategy.
(6) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The strategy re-
quired under paragraph (1) shall be made
publicly available on the website of the De-
partment of State.
SEC. 6. ACTIONS TO IMPROVE SECURITY CONDI-
TIONS IN THE NORTHERN TRI-
ANGLE.
(a) SECRETARY OF STATE PRIORITIZATION.—
The Secretary of State shall prioritize secu-
rity in the Northern Triangle countries by
carrying out the following initiatives:
(1) Implementing the Central America Re-
gional Security Initiative of the Department
of State.
(2) Continuing the vetting and
professionalization of security services, in-
cluding the civilian police and military
units.
(3) Supporting efforts to combat the illicit
activities of criminal gangs and
transnational criminal organizations, in-
cluding MS–13 and the 18th Street Gang,
through support to fully vetted elements of
attorneys general offices, appropriate gov-
ernment institutions, and security services.
(4) Supporting training for fully vetted ci-
vilian police and appropriate security serv-
ices in criminal investigations, best prac-
tices for citizen security, and human rights.
(5) Providing capacity-building to relevant
security services and attorneys general to
support counternarcotics efforts and combat
human trafficking, forcible recruitment of
children and youth by gangs, gender-based
violence, and other illicit activities, includ-
ing trafficking of wildlife, and natural re-
sources.
(6) Encouraging collaboration with re-
gional and international partners in imple-
menting security assistance, including by
supporting cross-border information sharing
on gangs and transnational criminal organi-
zations.
(7) Providing equipment, technology, tools,
and training to security services to assist in
border and port inspections.
(8) Providing equipment, technology, tools,
and training to assist security services in
counternarcotics and other efforts to combat
illicit activities.
(9) Continuing information sharing regard-
ing known or suspected terrorists and other
individuals and entities that pose a potential
threat to United States national security
that are crossing through or residing in the
Northern Triangle.
(10) Supporting information sharing on
gangs and transnational criminal organiza-
tions between relevant Federal, State, and
local law enforcement and the governments
of the Northern Triangle countries.
(11) Considering the use of assets and re-
sources of United States State and local gov-
ernment entities, as appropriate, to support
the activities described in this subsection.
(12) Providing thorough end-use moni-
toring of equipment, technology, tools, and
training provided pursuant to this sub-
section.
(b) STRATEGY.—
(1) ELEMENTS.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in coordination with
the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development and
the heads of other relevant Federal agencies,
shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a five-year strategy to
prioritize the improvement of security in the
Northern Triangle countries by carrying out
the initiatives described in subsection (a).
(2) CONSULTATION.—In developing the strat-
egy required under paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary of State shall consult with non-
governmental organizations in the Northern
Triangle countries and the United States.
(3) BENCHMARKS.—The strategy required
under paragraph (1) shall include annual
benchmarks to track the strategy’s progress
in curbing irregular migration from the
Northern Triangle to the United States.
(4) PUBLIC DIPLOMACY.—The strategy re-
quired under paragraph (1) shall include a
public diplomacy strategy for educating citi-
zens of the Northern Triangle countries
about United States assistance and its bene-
fits to them, and informing such citizens of
the dangers of illegal migration to the
United States.
(5) ANNUAL PROGRESS UPDATES.—Not later
than one year after the submission of the
strategy required under paragraph (1) and
annually thereafter for four years, the Sec-
retary of State shall provide the appropriate
congressional committees with a written de-
scription of progress made in meeting the
benchmarks established in the strategy.
(6) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The strategy re-
quired under paragraph (1) shall be made
publicly available on the website of the De-
partment of State.
(c) WOMEN AND CHILDREN PROTECTION COM-
PACTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President, in con-
sultation with the Secretary of State, the
Administrator of the United States Agency
for International Development, and the
heads of other relevant Federal departments
or agencies, is authorized to enter into bilat-
eral agreements with one or more of the
Governments of El Salvador, Guatemala, or
Honduras to provide United States assist-
ance for the purposes of—
(A) strengthening the capacity of the jus-
tice systems in such countries to protect
women and children fleeing domestic, gang,
or drug violence and to serve victims of do-
mestic violence, sexual assault, trafficking,
or child abuse or neglect, including by
strengthening the capacity of such systems
to hold perpetrators accountable; and
(B) creating, securing, and sustaining safe
communities and schools in such countries,
by building on current approaches to prevent
and deter violence against women and chil-
dren in such communities or schools.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—An agreement under
the authority provided by paragraph (1)—
(A) shall establish a 3- to 6-year plan to
achieve the objectives described in subpara-
graphs (A) and (B) of such paragraph;
(B) shall include measurable goals and in-
dicators with respect to such objectives;
(C) may not provide for any United States
assistance to be made available directly to
any of the governments of El Salvador, Gua-
temala, or Honduras; and
(D) may be suspended or terminated with
respect to a country or an entity receiving
assistance pursuant to the agreement, if the
Secretary of State determines that such
country or entity has failed to make suffi-
cient progress towards the goals of the Com-
pact.
SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
FOR ASSISTANCE TO CENTRAL
AMERICA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to
be appropriated to the President $577,000,000
for fiscal year 2020 to carry out the United
States Strategy for Engagement in Central
America in accordance with subsection (b).
Funds authorized to be appropriated to carry
out this section shall be used only for the
purposes set forth in subsection (b).
(b) USE OF FUNDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Amounts authorized to be
appropriated pursuant to subsection (a) shall
be made available for assistance to Central
American countries to implement the United
States Strategy for Engagement in Central
America, including efforts to carry out sec-
tions 3, 4, 5, and 6.
(2) EFFECTIVE TARGETING OF ASSISTANCE.—
The Secretary of State shall ensure that, to
the extent practicable, assistance provided
to Central American countries to carry out
this Act is obligated and expended on
projects, programs, or activities within such
countries, in order to better support inclu-
sive economic growth and development, com-
bat corruption, strengthen democratic insti-
tutions, and improve security conditions in
such countries.
(c) INTER-AMERICAN FOUNDATION.—Not less
than $10,000,000 of the funds authorized to be
appropriated pursuant to subsection (a) shall
be made available to the Inter-American
Foundation to address the root causes of mi-
gration from Central America.
(d) NORTHERN TRIANGLE.—Not less than
$490,000,000 of the funds authorized to be ap-
propriated pursuant to subsection (a) shall
be made available for programming in the
Northern Triangle counties.
(e) WOMEN AND CHILDREN PROTECTION COM-
PACTS.—Not less than $20,000,000 of the funds
authorized to be appropriated pursuant to
subsection (a) shall be made available to pro-
vide assistance pursuant to agreements au-
thorized by section 6(c).
SEC. 8. CONDITIONS ON ASSISTANCE TO THE
NORTHERN TRIANGLE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Of the funds authorized
to be appropriated to the President by this
Act that are made available for assistance
for each of the central governments of the
Northern Triangle countries, 50 percent of
such funds for each such central government
may only be obligated with respect to each
such country after the Secretary of State
certifies and reports to the appropriate con-
gressional committees that such central gov-
ernment is meeting the following conditions:
(1) Informing its citizens of the dangers of
the journey to the southwest border of the
United States.
(2) Combating all human smuggling and
trafficking entities.
(3) Countering the trafficking of illicit
drugs, firearms, wildlife, natural resources,
and other contraband.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.002 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5783
July 15, 2019
(4) Combating corruption, including inves-
tigating and prosecuting current and former
government officials credibly alleged to be
corrupt.
(5) Implementing reforms, policies, and
programs to increase transparency and
strengthen public institutions and the rule
of law.
(6) Countering the activities of criminal
gangs, drug traffickers, and transnational
criminal organizations.
(7) Ensuring that human rights are re-
spected by national security forces.
(8) Investigating and prosecuting in the ci-
vilian justice system government personnel
who are credibly alleged to have violated
human rights.
(9) Cooperating with commissions against
corruption and impunity and with regional
human rights entities.
(10) Supporting programs to reduce pov-
erty, expand education and vocational train-
ing for at-risk youth, create jobs, and pro-
mote equitable economic growth, particu-
larly in areas contributing to large numbers
of migrants.
(11) Creating a professional, accountable
civilian police force and ending the role of
the military in internal policing.
(12) Protecting the right of political oppo-
sition parties and other members of civil so-
ciety to operate without interference.
(13) Implementing tax reforms, ensuring
property rights, and supporting increased
private investment in the region.
(14) Resolving commercial disputes.
(b) REPROGRAMMING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Funds withheld pursuant
to the limitation described in subsection (a)
shall be made available for programs in the
Northern Triangle that do not directly sup-
port the central governments of such coun-
tries.
(2) EXCEPTION.—The limitation described in
subsection (a) does not apply to funds au-
thorized to be appropriated by this Act for
humanitarian assistance or global food secu-
rity programs.
SEC. 9. ENHANCING ENGAGEMENT WITH THE
GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO ON THE
NORTHERN TRIANGLE.
(a) ENHANCED ENGAGEMENT WITH THE GOV-
ERNMENT OF MEXICO ON THE NORTHERN TRI-
ANGLE.—The Secretary of State shall col-
laborate with the Government of Mexico to—
(1) enhance development, particularly in
collaboration with the Administrator of the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment, the President and Chief Execu-
tive Officer of the Inter-American Founda-
tion, the Chief Executive Officer of the
United States International Development Fi-
nance Corporation, and the heads of other
relevant Federal agencies, in southern Mex-
ico; and
(2) strengthen security cooperation at
Mexico’s shared border with Guatemala and
Belize.
(b) STRATEGY.—
(1) ELEMENTS.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State shall submit to the
appropriate congressional committees a
strategy to carry out the collaboration de-
scribed in subsection (a).
(2) CONSULTATION.—In developing the strat-
egy required under paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary of State shall consult with non-
governmental organizations in Mexico,
Belize, the Northern Triangle countries, and
the United States.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The strategy re-
quired under paragraph (1) shall be made
publicly available on the website of the De-
partment of State.
SEC. 10. TARGETING ASSISTANCE TO ADDRESS
MIGRATION FROM COMMUNITIES IN
THE NORTHERN TRIANGLE.
Not later than one year after the date of
the enactment of this Act and annually
thereafter for each of the three succeeding
years, the Comptroller General of the United
States shall submit to the appropriate con-
gressional committees a report that contains
the following:
(1) Raw data from Federal agencies on the
number of migrants coming to the United
States from each community or geographic
area in the Northern Triangle countries,
with a specific focus on communities tar-
geted by United States foreign assistance.
(2) An assessment of whether United States
foreign assistance to the Northern Triangle
countries is effectively reaching the commu-
nities from which individuals are migrating.
(3) An assessment of the extent to which
United States foreign assistance is miti-
gating Northern Triangle migration to the
United States, including a breakdown of ef-
fectiveness by project and implementer.
(4) An assessment of the extent to which
the Department of State and the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment are adjusting foreign assistance pro-
gramming in the Northern Triangle coun-
tries as migration patterns shift.
(5) An assessment of how the Department
of State, the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, and other implemen-
ters of United States foreign assistance in
the Northern Triangle are measuring the im-
pact of programs on migration trends.
(6) An assessment of how the Department
of State, the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, and other implemen-
ters of United States foreign assistance in
the Northern Triangle are implementing a
public diplomacy strategy that is widely in-
forming local citizens about United States
Government assistance and the dangers of il-
legal migration to the United States, includ-
ing an assessment of the effectiveness of
such strategy on curbing such illegal migra-
tion.
(7) An assessment of the extent to which
the governments of the Northern Triangle
countries are addressing drivers of migra-
tion, including efforts to increase economic
prosperity, citizen security, anti-corruption
efforts, democratic principles, and rule of
law.
(8) An assessment of how the Northern Tri-
angle countries are educating their citizens
about the dangers of illegal migration to the
United States and the effectiveness of such
educational efforts on curbing such illegal
migration.
SEC. 11. TARGETED SANCTIONS TO FIGHT COR-
RUPTION IN THE NORTHERN TRI-
ANGLE.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that—
(1) corruption in the Northern Triangle
countries by private citizens and select offi-
cials in local, regional, and federal govern-
ments significantly damages the economies
of such countries and deprives citizens of op-
portunities;
(2) corruption in the Northern Triangle is
facilitated and carried out not only by pri-
vate citizens and select officials from those
countries but also in many instances by indi-
viduals from third countries; and
(3) imposing targeted sanctions on individ-
uals from throughout the world and particu-
larly in the Western Hemisphere who are en-
gaged in acts of significant corruption that
impact the Northern Triangle countries will
benefit the citizens and governments of such
countries.
(b) IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.—The Presi-
dent shall impose the sanctions described in
subsection (c) with respect to a foreign per-
son who the President determines on or after
the date of the enactment of this Act to have
knowingly engaged in significant corruption
in a Northern Triangle country, including
the following:
(1) Corruption related to government con-
tracts.
(2) Bribery and extortion.
(3) The facilitation or transfer of the pro-
ceeds of corruption, including through
money laundering.
(c) SANCTIONS DESCRIBED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The sanctions described in
this subsection are the following:
(A) ASSET BLOCKING.—The blocking, in ac-
cordance with the International Emergency
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.),
of all transactions in all property and inter-
ests in property of a foreign person if such
property and interests in property are in the
United States, come within the United
States, or are or come within the possession
or control of a United States person.
(B) INELIGIBILITY FOR VISAS AND ADMISSION
TO THE UNITED STATES.—In the case of a for-
eign person who is an individual, such for-
eign person is—
(i) inadmissible to the United States;
(ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other doc-
umentation to enter the United States; and
(iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or
paroled into the United States or to receive
any other benefit under the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
(C) CURRENT VISAS REVOKED.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The issuing consular offi-
cer or the Secretary of State, (or a designee
of the Secretary of State) shall, in accord-
ance with section 221(i) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1201(i)), revoke
any visa or other entry documentation
issued to a foreign person regardless of when
the visa or other entry documentation is
issued.
(ii) EFFECT OF REVOCATION.—A revocation
under clause (i) shall—
(I) take effect immediately; and
(II) automatically cancel any other valid
visa or entry documentation that is in the
foreign person’s possession.
(2) PENALTIES.—A person that violates, at-
tempts to violate, conspires to violate, or
causes a violation of a measure imposed pur-
suant to paragraph (1)(A) or any regulation,
license, or order issued to carry out such
paragraph shall be subject to the penalties
specified in subsections (b) and (c) of section
206 of the International Emergency Eco-
nomic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the
same extent as a person that commits an un-
lawful act described in subsection (a) of such
section.
(3) EXCEPTION TO COMPLY WITH INTER-
NATIONAL OBLIGATIONS.—Sanctions under
subparagraph (B) and (C) of paragraph (1)
shall not apply with respect to a foreign per-
son if admitting or paroling such person into
the United States is necessary to permit the
United States to comply with the Agreement
regarding the Headquarters of the United
Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26,
1947, and entered into force November 21,
1947, between the United Nations and the
United States, or other applicable inter-
national obligations.
(d) IMPLEMENTATION; REGULATORY AUTHOR-
ITY.—
(1) IMPLEMENTATION.—The President may
exercise all authorities provided under sec-
tions 203 and 205 of the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702
and 1704) to carry out this section.
(2) REGULATORY AUTHORITY.—The President
shall issue such regulations, licenses, and or-
ders as are necessary to carry out this sec-
tion.
(e) NATIONAL INTEREST WAIVER.—The
President may waive the application of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:01 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.002 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5784 July 15, 2019
sanctions under subsection (c) if the Presi-
dent—
(1) determines that such a waiver is in the
national interest of the United States; and
(2) submits to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a notice of and justifica-
tion for the waiver.
(f) TERMINATION.—The authority to impose
sanctions under subsection (b), and any sanc-
tions imposed pursuant to such authority,
shall expire on the date that is three years
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(g) EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF
GOODS.—The authorities and requirements to
impose sanctions authorized under this Act
shall not include the authority or require-
ment to impose sanctions on the importation
of goods.
(h) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on the Judiciary, and the Com-
mittee on Financial Services of the House of
Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on the Judiciary, and the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs of the Senate.
(2) GOOD.—The term ‘‘good’’ means any ar-
ticle, natural or man-made substance, mate-
rial, supply or manufactured product, includ-
ing inspection and test equipment, and ex-
cluding technical data.
(3) PERSON FROM A NORTHERN TRIANGLE
COUNTRY.—The term ‘‘person from a North-
ern Triangle country’’ means—
(A) a citizen of a Northern Triangle coun-
try; or
(B) an entity organized under the laws of a
Northern Triangle country or any jurisdic-
tion within a Northern Triangle country.
SEC. 12. REQUIREMENT TO PROVIDE ADVANCE
NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESS OF SE-
CURITY ASSISTANCE TO NORTHERN
TRIANGLE COUNTRIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the President may
not provide security assistance to a North-
ern Triangle country during the 3-year pe-
riod beginning on the date of the enactment
of this Act until 30 days after the date on
which the President has provided to the ap-
propriate congressional committees notice of
such proposed provision of security assist-
ance.
(b) WAIVER.—The President may waive the
application of subsection (a) on a case-by-
case basis if the President—
(1) determines it is in the national security
interests of the United States to do so; and
(2) submits to the appropriate congres-
sional committees such determination and
the rationale for the determination.
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means the Committee on For-
eign Affairs of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate.
(2) SECURITY ASSISTANCE.—The term ‘‘secu-
rity assistance’’—
(A) has the meaning given such term in
section 502B(d)(2) of the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2304); and
(B) includes assistance under any inter-
national security assistance program con-
ducted under any other provision of law not
specified in section 502B(d)(2) of such Act.
SEC. 13. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—Except as otherwise provided, the
term ‘‘appropriate congressional commit-
tees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and
the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations
and the Committee on Appropriations of the
Senate.
(2) NORTHERN TRIANGLE.—The term ‘‘North-
ern Triangle’’ means the region of Central
America that encompasses the countries of
El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras.
(3) NORTHERN TRIANGLE COUNTRIES.—The
term ‘‘Northern Triangle countries’’ means
the countries of El Salvador, Guatemala, and
Honduras.
(4) TRANSNATIONAL CRIMINAL ORGANIZA-
TION.—The term ‘‘transnational criminal or-
ganization’’ has the meaning given the term
‘‘significant transnational criminal organi-
zation’’ in Executive Order 13581 (July 24,
2011).
SEC. 14. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go-Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 2615.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of this measure, and I want to start by
thanking Mr. MCCAUL for his partner-
ship in authoring this legislation.
Through our close, bipartisan collabo-
ration, we have before us today legisla-
tion that supports the people of Cen-
tral America and strengthens our na-
tional security by addressing the root
causes of child and family migration
from El Salvador, Guatemala, and Hon-
duras.
I was leading a congressional delega-
tion to El Salvador with Mr. MCCAUL
in March when the Trump administra-
tion decided to cut off foreign assist-
ance in the region, a decision that I
view as misguided and counter-
productive.
In San Salvador, we saw up close the
direct, meaningful impact of our
USAID investments. Our delegation
visited with an incredible group of
young people who were being trained in
computer programming and offered a
path to a better life.
The United States is helping to pro-
vide opportunities for a better future
for the people of El Salvador, Guate-
mala, and Honduras so children and
families are able to build prosperous
lives for themselves, and they aren’t
forced to make the dangerous journey
to our southern border.
But it is not just development assist-
ance we are providing. In San Salvador,
we met with FBI agents leading our
transnational antigang task force.
With State Department funding, the
FBI established these task forces in the
Northern Triangle over the past decade
to counter the growth of MS–13, the
18th Street gang, and other violent
criminals.
These units train Salvadorian police
officers and work closely with them to
dismantle gang leadership structures
in the United States and Central Amer-
ica. They make our communities and
constituents safer.
So I was pleased to return to Wash-
ington and partner with Mr. MCCAUL to
draft this legislation authorizing our
assistance to Central America for fis-
cal year 2020. The bill also includes
strong conditions on any assistance
that goes to the central governments
of the Northern Triangle countries.
In addition, it lays out a series of ac-
tions to be taken by the Secretary of
State, the USAID Administrator, and
other U.S. Government officials to pro-
mote inclusive economic growth and
development, combat corruption,
strengthen domestic institutions, and
improve security conditions in El Sal-
vador, Guatemala, and Honduras.
Lastly, it puts in place targeted visa
bans and asset freezes for corrupt indi-
viduals from the Northern Triangle
countries.
Endemic corruption by government
and nongovernment actors in Central
America is hurting the region’s poor
and most vulnerable people, and we
should do whatever we can to stop it.
Today, the House of Representatives
must stand together to pass this com-
monsense piece of legislation that
helps the United States and families
and children in the Northern Triangle.
So, I again thank Mr. MCCAUL for his
partnership and for working with me to
address the root causes of migration to
the U.S. from Central America. I urge
my colleagues to support this bipar-
tisan legislation, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, June 5, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I am writing to you
concerning H.R. 2615, the United States-
Northern Triangle Enhanced Engagement
Act.
I appreciate your willingness to work coop-
eratively on this legislation. I recognize that
the bill contains provisions that fall within
the jurisdiction of the Committee on the Ju-
diciary. I acknowledge that the Committee
will not seek a referral of or formally con-
sider H.R. 2615 and agree that the inaction of
your Committee with respect to the bill does
not waive any future jurisdictional claim
over the matters contained in H.R. 2615
which fall within your Committee’s Rule X
jurisdiction.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.002 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5785
July 15, 2019
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill. I appreciate
your cooperation regarding this legislation
and look forward to continuing to work with
you as this measure moves through the legis-
lative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, July 8, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: This is to advise you
that the Committee on the Judiciary has
now had an opportunity to review the provi-
sions in H.R. 2615, the ‘‘United States-North-
ern Triangle Enhanced Engagement Act,’’
that fall within our Rule X jurisdiction. I ap-
preciate your consulting with us on those
provisions. The Judiciary Committee has no
objection to your including them in the bill
for consideration on the House floor, and to
expedite that consideration is willing to
waive sequential referral, with the under-
standing that we do not thereby waive any
future jurisdictional claim over those provi-
sions or their subject matters.
In the event a House-Senate conference on
this or similar legislation is convened, the
Judiciary Committee reserves the right to
request an appropriate number of conferees
to address any concerns with these or simi-
lar provisions that may arise in conference.
Please place this letter into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor. Thank you for
the cooperative spirit in which you have
worked regarding this matter and others be-
tween our committees.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of the United States-Northern Triangle
Enhanced Engagement Act, for which I
am proud to be the lead Republican co-
sponsor, and I want to thank Chairman
ENGEL for his bipartisan work on this
very important piece of legislation
that was really the product of a trip
that we took down to Latin America.
This bill requires the State Depart-
ment and USAID to develop and fund a
5-year strategy to address the drivers
of illegal immigration to our southern
border. The bill requires State and
USAID to develop annual benchmarks
to track the progress of programs in
stemming migration flows. It requires
those to be reported to Congress, in-
creasing our ability to oversee U.S. for-
eign assistance to the Northern Tri-
angle.
As Chairman ENGEL mentioned, we
recently traveled to El Salvador earlier
this year and saw the hard work that
the U.S. Government is doing to sup-
port international law enforcement in-
vestigations to capture MS–13 gang
members. The bill also prioritizes secu-
rity assistance to combat
transnational crime and to improve se-
curity and counternarcotics efforts at
their borders and ports.
This legislation also supports the
amazing work of faith-based organiza-
tions that are engaged with the private
sector to provide employment for
youth and prevent them from joining
gangs.
This bill builds on existing efforts to
increase coordination with Mexico in
our shared efforts to curb illegal mi-
gration, spur economic development,
and combat corruption in the Northern
Triangle.
I understand and share the Presi-
dent’s frustration with the continued
stream of migrants to our southern
border, and as a native Texan, I under-
stand the unique challenges caused by
illegal migration to our border. Ad-
dressing this problem requires a com-
prehensive solution and utilizing all
tools at our disposal, including foreign
assistance, which should be used.
I also agree with the President that
the governments of the Northern Tri-
angle countries can and must do more
to address the drivers of migration.
This bill includes conditions that these
governments must meet to receive as-
sistance and requires the State Depart-
ment to engage with these govern-
ments to track and ensure they are
doing their part to address the crisis.
Lastly, the bill authorizes targeted
sanctions against individuals engaged
in corruption that impacts the North-
ern Triangle, and so I urge my col-
leagues who believe that we must do
all we can to address this humani-
tarian crisis on the border to support
this legislation.
Again, Mr. Speaker, I want to thank
the chairman, Mr. ENGEL, for his ongo-
ing bipartisan work on this committee.
I think we are probably the most bipar-
tisan committee on the Hill, and I
know Mr. ENGEL and I are both very
proud of that accomplishment.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, let me
thank Mr. MCCAUL, and it is a pleasure
to work with him on matters like this.
I yield 2 minutes to the gentleman
from California (Mr. CORREA).
Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
I am proud to support Chairman
ENGEL’s H.R. 2615, the U.S.-Northern
Triangle Enhanced Engagement Act.
Earlier this year, I had the oppor-
tunity to visit the Northern Triangle
and to meet with elected officials, law
enforcement officials, and humani-
tarian organizations to discuss the dif-
ficult and dangerous conditions that
force families and children to flee their
homes in search of a better life. I dis-
covered what we all knew: The root
causes of the refugee crisis are, of
course, violence and lack of economic
opportunity.
During my trip, I was encouraged by
the positive impact and effectiveness of
U.S. foreign assistance and the changes
it has made in Guatemala, El Salvador,
and Honduras. For example, U.S. pro-
grams have supported micro, small,
and medium enterprises in El Salvador.
During my trip, I also learned of Chi-
na’s interest to build a deepwater port
and to buy coastline in the area. Clear-
ly, it is in America’s best strategic
long-term interest to make sure that
the area is economically stable and
that the region is economically and po-
litically stable.
We must continue to invest in re-
gional security and economic develop-
ment to ensure that our neighbors are
safe, strong, stable, and secure. And by
ensuring our region is secure, we can
build strong and lasting peace and
prosperity and build markets for Amer-
ican products and services.
I urge my colleagues to pass this
vital legislation.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Providing opportunities for the most
vulnerable individuals from El Sal-
vador, Guatemala, and Honduras is
common sense, and working to address
the root causes of child and family mi-
gration is a long-term solution that we
should all be able to agree on. It is the
right thing to do, but it is also in our
own interest.
And while U.S. foreign assistance is
crucial, it is not a gift. It must come
with strong conditions. Our legislation
puts in place such conditions for our
assistance to the Northern Triangle
and includes tough, smart, targeted
sanctions to combat corruption.
By passing this bill today, Congress
can send, and will send, a loud and
clear message that we stand with the
people of the Northern Triangle coun-
tries to make their countries safer and
more prosperous so they aren’t forced
to make the dangerous trek here. We
can also send a message to China and
Russia that the U.S. will not abandon
our friends and partners in Central
America.
Let me conclude by thanking Mr.
MCCAUL for his partnership on this
measure. We truly worked on this to-
gether. We were together in Central
America when we got the word of the
potential cutoff of funding, and we
worked closely together in a bipartisan
way to make sure that that wouldn’t
be the case.
So I urge my colleagues to support
this legislation. I thank Mr. MCCAUL
again, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 2615, the ‘‘United
States-Northern Triangle Enhancement En-
gagement Act.’’
H.R. 2615 supports the people of Central
America and strengthens United States na-
tional security by addressing the root causes
of migration from El Salvador, Guatemala, and
Honduras.
H.R. 2615 will provide reports on drivers of
migration from the Northern Triangle to the
United States and will identify methods for the
United States to strengthen fragile democ-
racies in the region.
Thousands of immigrants flee the Northern
Triangle to seek asylum and refuge in the
United States of America.
The number of asylum seekers worldwide
originating from the Northern Triangle reached
110,000 in 2015, a five-fold increase from
2012.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.003 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5786 July 15, 2019
Poverty, corrupt police forces, gang vio-
lence, political corruption, and economic insta-
bility exacerbate living conditions in the North-
ern Triangle.
Homicide rates are extremely high for Cen-
tral American countries; El Salvador is leading
the way with a rate of 82.84 per 100,000 per-
sons.
Salvadorans, Hondurans, and Guatemalans
leave their homes in search of physical secu-
rity, democracy, freedom, and civil liberties .
They look toward the U.S. as a beacon of
hope and prosperity, often traveling miles
while battling hardships and risks to pursue
the American Dream.
This bill seeks to combat corruption among
political institutions in the region to reinforce
security and lead to the development of civil
society.
We must address the origins and the struc-
tural causes of migration to address the issues
that lead to mass migration to our southern
borders.
Our agencies are unequipped and are in-
capable of meeting the demand of sheltering
and processing immigrants who arrive at our
ports of entry.
Our nation’s security depends on the sta-
bility of the Northern Triangle.
We must act to ensure that the countries in
this region return to a functioning democracy,
free of corruption and violence.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 2615 to assist in rees-
tablishing a democratic and peaceful societies
in the countries of the Northern Triangle.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2615, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
b 1500
USAID BRANDING MODERNIZATION
ACT
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2744) to authorize the Adminis-
trator of the United States Agency for
International Development to pre-
scribe the manner in which programs
of the agency are identified overseas,
and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2744
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of America
in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘USAID
Branding Modernization Act’’.
SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION FOR BRANDING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator of the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment (USAID) is authorized to pre-
scribe, as appropriate, the use of logos or
other insignia of the USAID Identity, or the
use of additional or substitute markings in-
cluding the United States flag, to appro-
priately identify, including as required by
section 641 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2401), overseas programs ad-
ministered by the Agency.
(b) AUDIT.—Not later than one year after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the In-
spector General of the United States Agency
for International Development shall submit
to Congress an audit of compliance with rel-
evant branding and marketing requirements
of the Agency by implementing partners
funded by the USAID, including any require-
ments prescribed pursuant to the authoriza-
tion under subsection (a).
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 2744.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self as much time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, let me start by thank-
ing my friend from Texas once again,
the ranking member of the Foreign Af-
fairs Committee, Mr. MCCAUL, for his
hard work on this measure. I am glad
to be a cosponsor.
Mr. Speaker, our development efforts
around the world accomplish so much.
Whether it is helping build a road
that links a small village to a trade
hub, working with governments to
make their justice systems more trans-
parent and accountable, assisting com-
munities to get clean drinking water,
or expanding access to broadband
internet in rural areas, American de-
velopment work is making differences
you can see in people’s lives. It is also
projecting our country’s character of
compassion and generosity.
So when I travel around the world
and I see the USAID logo—it is that
recognizable seal of two hands clasped
in friendship—on the front door of a
new school or a wastewater treatment
facility or a pallet of food on its way to
refugees, it makes me proud. It really
does.
The people benefiting from that as-
sistance should know where it is com-
ing from, too. We should signal to the
world our commitment to development
is a core pillar of America’s global en-
gagement.
This legislation reaffirms the obliga-
tion to brand our foreign assistance
while continuing to provide needed
flexibility to ensure we are not putting
our partners or aid recipients at risk.
It requires a long overdue audit to en-
sure that USAID projects are appro-
priately branded in the field.
This is something Mr. MCCAUL and I
have been working on closely together.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter on this issue that Mr. MCCAUL
and I wrote to the USAID adminis-
trator, our former House colleague,
MARK GREEN.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 15, 2019.
Mr. MARK GREEN,
Administrator, U.S. Agency for International
Development, Washington, DC.
DEAR ADMINISTRATOR GREEN: We write to
you today to reiterate the Congressional in-
tent behind HR 2744, the USAID Branding
Modernization Act, which we have intro-
duced in the 116th Congress.
Providing foreign assistance around the
world demonstrates the generosity of Ameri-
cans, and furthers our foreign policy objec-
tives. Branding foreign assistance is always
the first preference, to ensure that those re-
ceiving assistance know that support comes
from the American people. As such, the Con-
gress believes, and has affirmed, that in gen-
eral, foreign assistance provided using U.S.
taxpayer dollars should be branded, as appro-
priate. This demonstrates U.S. commitment
to assisting those in need, be it through food
aid after a drought, job training to empower
women entrepreneurs, or life-saving vaccines
to eradicate polio.
That said, Congress acknowledges the need
for discretion and flexibility in branding in
some instances to ensure the safety and se-
curity of both implementing partners and
beneficiaries. This bill in no way amends
that understanding, or any authorities,
which would impact the ability or need for
USAID to provide branding waivers or ex-
emptions as appropriate, with input from
and ongoing communication with imple-
menting partners. As referenced in the legis-
lation, 22 USC 2401 asserts that programs
‘‘shall be identified appropriately overseas’’.
Federal Register rules and regulations under
2 CFR Part 700 provide waivers to ensure
that branding does not put partners or bene-
ficiaries at risk, and USAID internal guid-
ance regarding marking and branding poli-
cies remain at the discretion of the Agency.
Finally, this bill requires an audit, con-
ducted by the Inspector General for USAID,
on the compliance with relevant branding
and marking requirements. This is not in-
tended to re-litigate branding decisions re-
garding waivers or exemptions that are al-
ready in place. Rather, this audit is intended
to provide a more comprehensive picture for
USAID, its implementing partners, and Con-
gress, of the challenges to successful brand-
ing and marking, and how to better commu-
nicate, provide guidance, and implement,
branding and marking requirements.
We appreciate USAID’s ongoing efforts to
save lives, reduce poverty, strengthen demo-
cratic governance, and help people emerge
from humanitarian crises, to advance a free,
peaceful, and prosperous world. We look for-
ward to continuing to work with USAID on
effective foreign assistance.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
MICHAEL T. MCCAUL,
Ranking Member.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I am glad
we will be moving ahead with this leg-
islation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, the United States Agen-
cy for International Development does
an incredible job of providing life-
saving humanitarian assistance to vul-
nerable people all around the globe.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:00 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.004 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5787
July 15, 2019
I want to take this opportunity to
commend our former colleague, Admin-
istrator Mark Green, for his hard work
at USAID. I have had many construc-
tive conversations with him since be-
coming the lead Republican on the For-
eign Affairs Committee, and I look for-
ward to many more. This bill is actu-
ally his idea.
While the primary goal of such as-
sistance is to save the lives of people in
desperate need, we also want to ensure
the recipients know that it is a gift
from the people of the United States of
America.
We hear a lot about the need to maxi-
mize America’s ‘‘soft power.’’ There is
no better way to win hearts and minds
than by saving lives, feeding hungry
children, and helping impoverished
populations.
This is why I introduced the Brand-
ing Modernization Act, together with
Chairman ENGEL.
While this bill places no mandates on
USAID and maintains the Administra-
tor’s flexibility, it does empower him
to brand all of our humanitarian as-
sistance.
It also expands the tools and logos
available to the Administrator for im-
plementing a comprehensive branding
strategy.
Finally, it requires an audit by the
agency’s inspector general to ensure
that our personnel are complying with
branding regulations.
This bill represents smart diplomacy,
good governance, and the true compas-
sion of the American people. I believe
it deserves our unanimous support.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Chair-
man ENGEL again for working with me,
as usual, on this bill as well as many
others, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, let me again thank my
friend, Ranking Member MCCAUL, for
his leadership on this bill.
One of the things that makes Amer-
ican foreign policy unique is that when
we are at our best, our values are at
the center of everything we do. I think
one of the most important American
values is that we are a generous and
big-hearted country. We invest in de-
velopment because development and
security go hand-in-hand, but also be-
cause it is the right thing to do. It al-
lows more people to live fuller,
healthier, more prosperous lives.
We should take credit for that. We
should let people know it is the United
States extending a hand of friendship
and assistance. That is the goal that
this bill is pursuing.
Mr. Speaker, I am glad to support
this bill, I encourage all Members to do
the same, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2744.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
CONDEMNING ATTACK ON THE
AMIA JEWISH COMMUNITY CEN-
TER IN BUENOS AIRES IN JULY
1994
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution (H. Res. 441) a resolution con-
demning the attack on the AMIA Jew-
ish Community Center in Buenos Aires,
Argentina, in July 1994 and expressing
the concern of the United States re-
garding the continuing, 25-year-long
delay in the resolution of this case and
encouraging accountability for the at-
tack.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 441
Whereas, 25 years ago, on July 18, 1994, 85
innocent people were killed and 300 were
wounded when the Argentine Jewish Mutual
Association (AMIA) was bombed in Buenos
Aires, Argentina;
Whereas, 2 years earlier, Hezbollah
operatives also blew up the Israeli embassy
in Buenos Aires, killing 29 civilians;
Whereas it is reported that considerable
evidence links the attack to the terrorist
group Hezbollah, which is based in Lebanon,
supported by the Government of the Syrian
Arab Republic, and sponsored by the Govern-
ment of the Islamic Republic of Iran;
Whereas the 25 years since the bombing
have been marked by a failure to bring those
responsible, including Iranian officials and
their Hezbollah proxies, to justice;
Whereas, in September 2004, Alberto
Nisman was appointed as the Special Pros-
ecutor in charge of the 1994 AMIA bombing
investigation;
Whereas, on October 25, 2006, Argentine
prosecutors Alberto Nisman and Marcelo
Martı́nez Burgos formally accused the Gov-
ernment of Iran of directing the bombing,
and the Hezbollah militia of carrying it out;
Whereas Ibrahim Hussein Berro, a member
of the terrorist group Hezbollah, was identi-
fied as the AMIA bomber;
Whereas, in November 2006, an Argentine
judge issued arrest warrants for Iranian na-
tionals Ali Fallahijan (former Iranian intel-
ligence minister), Mohsen Rabbani (former
Iranian cultural attaché), Ahmad Reza
Asghari (former Iranian diplomat), Ahmad
Vahidi (former Iranian defense minister), Ali
Akbar Velayati (former Iranian foreign min-
ister), Mohsen Rezaee (former chief com-
mander of the Iranian Islamic Revolutionary
Guards Corps), Ali Akbar Hashemi
Rafsanjani (former President of Iran), Hadi
Soleimanpour (former Iranian Ambassador
to Argentina), and Lebanese national Imad
Fayez Moughnieh who were named as sus-
pects in the AMIA bombing;
Whereas, in November 2007, INTERPOL
voted to put the following suspects in the
1994 AMIA attack on its most wanted list—
Ali Fallahijan, Mohsen Rabbani, Ahmad
Reza Asghari, Ahmad Vahidi, and Mohsen
Razaee from Iran and Imad Fayez Moughnieh
from Lebanon;
Whereas Interpol currently has 4 red alerts
in place in relation to the AMIA attack;
Whereas, on January 13, 2015, prosecutor
Alberto Nisman alleged in a complaint that
then-Argentinian President Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner and then-Minister of
Foreign Relations Hector Timerman con-
spired to cover up Iranian involvement in
the 1994 terrorist bombing, and reportedly
agreed to negotiate immunity for Iranian
suspects and help get their names removed
from the INTERPOL list;
Whereas prosecutor Alberto Nisman was
scheduled to present his new findings to the
Argentinian Congress on January 19, 2015;
Whereas prosecutor Alberto Nisman was
found shot in the head in his apartment in
Buenos Aires on January 18, 2015;
Whereas the investigation of the AMIA
bombing has been marked by judicial mis-
conduct;
Whereas, in March 2019, an Argentine court
handed down convictions and sentences, find-
ing that the judge, prosecutors, and head of
the Argentina’s secret services—the individ-
uals responsible for investigating the AMIA
bombing, Argentina’s deadliest terrorist at-
tack—had interfered with the inquiry, di-
verting the investigation away from the
truth;
Whereas former Federal judge Juan José
Galeano was handed down a 6-year convic-
tion by the court, which will not be enforced
until the sentence is confirmed by a higher
tribunal;
Whereas former State Intelligence Secre-
tariat (SIDE) intelligence head Hugo
Anzorreguy was handed a prison sentence of
54 months;
Whereas Carlos Telleldı́n, a used car dealer
who sold the van that contained the bomb
used to attack AMIA and received a bribe to
incriminate police officers falsely, was sen-
tenced to 42 months in jail; and
Whereas no Iranian suspects for the AMIA
bombing have yet faced prosecution: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) reiterates its strongest condemnation of
the 1994 attack on the AMIA Jewish Commu-
nity Center in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and
honors the victims of this heinous act;
(2) expresses its sympathy to the relatives
of the victims, who have waited a quarter of
a century without justice for the loss of
their loved ones, and may have to wait even
longer for justice to be served;
(3) underscores the concern of the United
States regarding the continuing, 25-year-
long delay in the proper resolution of this
case; and
(4) expresses strong support for account-
ability for this attack, including against
those Iranian and Hezbollah operatives who
were responsible.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr. WIL-
SON) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self as much time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H. Res. 441, a resolution condemning
the attack on the AMIA Jewish Com-
munity Center in Buenos Aires, Argen-
tina, in July 1994, 25 years ago this
month.
I have been to that community cen-
ter. It is a vibrant community center.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:29 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.014 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5788 July 15, 2019
It was a horrific bombing that hap-
pened 25 years ago.
Mr. Speaker, first of all, I would like
to thank Mr. DEUTCH for authoring this
resolution and for his years of leader-
ship advocating for justice for the vic-
tims of the AMIA bombing.
In July of 1994, the AMIA Jewish
Community Center in Buenos Aires
was bombed. Eighty-five innocent peo-
ple were killed and at least 300 people
were wounded. Almost 25 years later,
this heartbreaking tragedy and vicious
act of anti-Semitism still is an open
wound. Justice has not been served.
This hits close to my heart. I have
visited AMIA twice to meet with the
community there and pay my respects
to the victims and the Argentine Jew-
ish community.
For 25 years, the Argentine people
have been waiting for the perpetrators
of this horrific act of violence and hate
to be brought to justice.
So, I am glad we are considering this
resolution today to keep this issue on
the front burner and to continue to
show solidarity with the victims.
The measure before us condemns the
AMIA attack and expresses the United
States’ condolences to the families of
the 85 victims.
This resolution also makes it clear
that those responsible for the murder
of innocent civilians must be held ac-
countable. Years of investigation have
found that the perpetrators of this at-
tack were Hezbollah operatives with
strong links to Iranian Government of-
ficials.
Despite the international outcry and
a stack of Interpol red notices demand-
ing that these individuals be brought
to justice, Iran refuses to hold the per-
petrators accountable. Par for the
course for the Government of Iran.
It is the duty of all of us here in Con-
gress to stand with the Argentine peo-
ple as they demand that those respon-
sible face consequences for their
crimes.
I hope our friends in the Argentine
Government and justice system will do
everything they can to finally provide
closure for the victims’ families.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this resolution, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself as much time
as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H. Res. 441, Condemning the attack
on the AMIA Jewish Community Cen-
ter in Buenos Aires in July 1994, au-
thored by Mr. DEUTCH of Florida.
In July 1994, a terrorist tied to the
Iranian-backed Hezbollah carried out a
murderous bombing of the AMIA Jew-
ish Community Center in Buenos Aires,
Argentina, killing 85 innocent people
and injuring hundreds more.
Unfortunately, 25 years later, the
cowardly perpetrators of this attack
have evaded justice due to a series of
coverups and a botched investigation.
This reminds us that terrorism is a
continuing threat in our hemisphere
and that we must always be vigilant.
This important resolution condemns
the attack, expresses concern over the
continued delay in the resolution of
the case, and it encourages account-
ability for those responsible.
The resolution also recognizes a se-
ries of critical events, including the
mysterious death of the lead pros-
ecutor, Alberto Nisman, who formally
accused the Government of Iran and
Hezbollah for their role and implicated
the Fernandez Kirchner government in
negotiating immunity for the Iranian
suspects.
This resolution demonstrates our
commitment to supporting the Govern-
ment of Argentina, one of our great re-
gional partners, in finding justice for
the victims and their families, and
combating the continued threat of ter-
rorism in our hemisphere.
I was grateful to work with my col-
league, Mr. DEUTCH, the chairman of
the Middle East, North Africa, and
International Terrorism Sub-
committee, on this important resolu-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H. Res. 441.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. DEUTCH), chairman of the Sub-
committee on the Middle East, North
Africa, and International Terrorism.
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairman ENGEL for yielding me time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor
the memory of the victims of the 1994
terror attack on the AMIA Jewish
Community Center in Buenos Aires.
On July 18, 1994, terrorists detonated
a car bomb in the AMIA building, a
Jewish community center in Buenos
Aires, an important part, a central
part of that community. It killed 85 in-
nocent people and injured hundreds
more.
This attack, which took place just 2
years after the bombing of the Israeli
embassy in Buenos Aires, shook the
Argentine Jewish community, the larg-
est in Latin America.
In the 25 years since the attack, the
investigations into the AMIA bombing
have been marked by long delays and
by judicial misconduct, failing thus far
to bring justice for the victims, their
families, and their community.
Considerable evidence has linked this
heinous attack to the terrorist group
Hezbollah and its sponsor, the Govern-
ment of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Now, despite warrants issued by the
Argentinian justice system for Iranian
and Lebanese nationals thought to be
involved in the attacks, and their addi-
tion on Interpol’s most wanted lists,
Iranian and Hezbollah operatives have
yet to face accountability for their ac-
tions.
We encourage all responsible nations
to not allow the perpetrators of this at-
tack to continue to escape justice.
After the previous President of Ar-
gentina worked to prevent Iran from
being held accountable, Prosecutor
Alberto Nisman heroically proceeded
investigating this bombing, shedding
light on the alarming and growing
partnership between leaders in Iran
and Argentina. Just 1 day before he
was scheduled to present his latest
findings, Alberto Nisman was found
dead in his home with a fatal gunshot
wound to the head.
We are grateful that President
Macri’s government has continued to
push for Iranian accountability.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to ac-
knowledge the Ambassador of Argen-
tina, who is in the gallery with us
today.
Twenty-five years later, Iranian-
backed Hezbollah continues to carry
out terror operations. Twenty-five
years later, anti-Semitism continues to
threaten the lives of Jewish commu-
nities throughout Latin America,
around the world, and even here in the
United States.
With this vote, Congress honors the
victims of this horrific attack; recalls
the brave work by Alberto Nisman,
who lost his life pursuing justice; and
calls for full accountability for those
responsible. It has been far too long.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my friend, the
ranking member, Congressman JOE
WILSON, ranking member of the Middle
East, North Africa, and International
Terrorism Subcommittee, and Con-
gressmen ALBIO SIRES and FRANCIS
ROONEY, the chair and ranking member
of the Western Hemisphere, Civilian
Security, and Trade Subcommittee, for
joining me in introducing this resolu-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
stand with us against this despicable
act of terror. As we recall the victims
today, we stand against terror and ha-
tred and anti-Semitism, and we stand
for justice.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to avoid references
to occupants of the gallery.
b 1515
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume, for
the purpose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, it is an outrage that,
after all these years, there still hasn’t
been justice for the AMIA bombing vic-
tims and their families.
This resolution today is a message to
the Argentine Jewish community, and
to marginalized, victimized commu-
nities around the world, that the
United States will not forget them and
will continue to push for justice.
I am glad my colleague mentioned
the prosecutor, Alberto Nisman, be-
cause what happened to him, to be
murdered a day before he was to
present his work, is absolutely a dis-
grace. Some in the government even
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:29 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.016 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5789
July 15, 2019
tried to say that it was a suicide, but
we know it was not.
I hope that we get to the bottom of
the truth and that Mr. Nisman is hon-
ored, which he should be. It is just an
absolute disgrace that he was mur-
dered.
Again, I thank Mr. DEUTCH for au-
thorizing this important resolution.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting it, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
in strong support of H. Res. 441 which con-
veys the indignation and concern many of my
colleagues and I have regarding the severe
delay in the conclusion of and lack of account-
ability for the July 1994 AMIA Jewish Commu-
nity Center attacks.
On July 18, 1994, 85 innocent people lost
their lives and 300 more were wounded in an
act of terror and hate perpetrated against the
Argentine Jewish Mutual Association (AMIA).
This attack came two years after the bomb-
ing of the Embassy of Israel in Buenos Aires
which claimed the lives of an additional 29 ci-
vilians.
In both instances, there was considerable
evidence that linked the attacks to the Leb-
anon-based terrorist group Hezbollah, which is
supported by the Syrian Arab Republic and is
sponsored by the Islamic Republic of Iran.
In the quarter century since the bombing of
the AMIA Jewish Community Center in Bue-
nos Aires, little has been done to bring those
responsible, including Iranian officials and their
Hezbollah proxies, to justice.
Those charged with bringing the attackers to
justice have unfortunately been made victims
themselves or since been found to have un-
dermined and misled their investigations into
the attacks.
Alberto Nisman, one of the original prosecu-
tors that formally accused the Government of
Iran of directing the bombing, was also critical
of the Government of Argentina’s response to
the 1994 AMIA bombing.
Nisman alleged that there was a conspiracy
among high-ranking Argentinian government
officials, including then-President Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner, to cover up Iranian in-
volvement.
Unfortunately, Nisman was shot in the head
in his apartment the day before he was sched-
uled to present new findings to the Argentinian
Congress.
Other individuals responsible for inves-
tigating the AMIA bombing, Argentina’s dead-
liest terrorist attack, have since been con-
victed by an Argentine court for interfering with
the official inquiry and diverting the investiga-
tion away from the truth.
As a senior member of the Committees on
the Judiciary and on Homeland Security, I
urge my fellow colleagues to join me in sup-
porting H. Res. 441 and in condemning what
has been a systemic failure to carry out justice
for the victims of the July 18, 1994 terrorist at-
tack on the AMIA Jewish Community Center.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, H.
Res. 441.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the resolu-
tion was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CONDEMNING ATTACKS ON PEACE-
FUL PROTESTERS AND SUP-
PORTING TRANSITION TO A CI-
VILIAN-LED DEMOCRATIC GOV-
ERNMENT IN SUDAN
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution (H. Res. 432) condemning the at-
tacks on peaceful protesters and sup-
porting an immediate peaceful transi-
tion to a civilian-led democratic gov-
ernment in Sudan, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 432
Whereas in 2016, the Government of the
United States launched a plan aimed at re-
ducing conflict and expanding humanitarian
access in Sudan, improving counterterrorism
cooperation, ending Sudan’s negative inter-
ference in South Sudan, and addressing the
threat of the Lord’s Resistance Army, that,
according to the Department of State, led to
significant progress in these areas and re-
sulted in the lifting of some United States
sanctions on Sudan in October 2017;
Whereas the Department of State an-
nounced ‘‘Phase II’’ of the bilateral re-
engagement framework with Sudan in No-
vember 2018, under which the United States
would consider rescinding Sudan’s designa-
tion as a state sponsor of terrorism if the
country met the relevant statutory criteria
for delisting and if the Government of Sudan
made progress along six identified areas of
concern related to counterterrorism coopera-
tion, humanitarian access, respect for
human rights, a cessation of internal hos-
tilities and a conducive environment for
peace processes, efforts to address out-
standing terrorism-related legal claims, and
adherence to United Nations Security Coun-
cil resolutions on North Korea;
Whereas despite the Government of Su-
dan’s pledge to cease hostilities, the United
Nations Panel of Experts on the Sudan re-
ported in January 2019 that forces of the
Government of Sudan had launched ‘‘large-
scale military operations’’ against insur-
gents in the Jebel Marra region of Darfur in
2018 and that elements of Sudan’s Rapid Sup-
port Forces and associated militia were im-
plicated in indiscriminate shootings, rape,
acts of torture, and other inhumane treat-
ment of civilians;
Whereas the Department of State’s coun-
try reports on human rights practices de-
scribe reports of serious human rights viola-
tions by Sudan’s intelligence service and
military, including the Rapid Support
Forces, citing credible reports that villages
in Jebel Marra were targeted for attack in
2018, resulting in the displacement of thou-
sands of civilians and noting that Sudan’s
Rapid Support Forces were implicated in the
majority of reported human rights violations
against civilians in the country;
Whereas contrary to the requirements of
Phase II, humanitarian organizations report
that humanitarian access restrictions have
persisted, including bureaucratic inter-
ference, and reports of serious human rights
abuses and media censorship increased after
Phase II was launched;
Whereas in December 2018, protests that
began in Damazin and Atbara spread across
the country, with thousands of Sudanese
gathering to demand political change;
Whereas the Sudanese authorities re-
sponded to the protests by detaining hun-
dreds of people, including protesters, mem-
bers of the political opposition, civil society,
journalists, and more than a dozen American
citizens, and by using excessive and lethal
force against protesters;
Whereas in late February 2019, President
Bashir declared a yearlong nationwide state
of emergency, dissolving the Federal and
State governments and appointing senior
military officers to key government posts,
banning unauthorized gatherings, dem-
onstrations, and strikes, expanding author-
ization for searches, seizures, and arrests,
and barring news deemed to undermine his
government;
Whereas tens, if not hundreds, of thou-
sands of protesters gathered in Khartoum on
April 6, 2019, calling for the end of the gov-
ernment of President Bashir, and on April 11,
2019, he was ousted from power by the mili-
tary and replaced by Defense Minister and
First Vice President Lt. Gen. Ahmed Awad
Ibn Auf, who later ceded power to Military
Inspector General and Army Chief Lt. Gen.
Abdel Fattah al-Burhan;
Whereas Lt. Gen. Burhan stated that his
Transitional Military Council is committed
to transferring power to a civilian govern-
ment, but the Council has sought to main-
tain the military’s dominance in negotia-
tions with opposition representatives on a
transitional arrangement;
Whereas protesters maintained their vigil
in Khartoum, calling for the military to
transfer power to a civilian-led transitional
authority that would end Sudan’s civil wars,
address the country’s economic crisis, and
lay the foundations for democratic elections;
Whereas the Transitional Military Council
has not met the demands of the protesters
and the African Union Peace and Security
Council to ‘‘step aside and hand over power
to a civilian-led transitional authority, in
accordance with the will of the people and
constitutional order’’;
Whereas on June 3rd, elements of Sudanese
security forces, led by the Rapid Support
Forces, violently dispersed the sit-in of the
protesters and killed over 100 people, with
hundreds more injured and reports of rape
and other human rights abuses committed;
Whereas negotiations between the Transi-
tional Military Council and the opposition
coalition, known as the Forces for Freedom
and Change, on the composition and powers
of a transitional government are com-
plicated by the role of individuals in the
Military Council who have been accused of
war crimes, by the Council’s insistence on Is-
lamic Sharia law as the basis for laws, and
by security forces use of live fire against pro-
testers in the cities of Nyala, Zalingei, and
Khartoum, resulting in multiple deaths, dur-
ing the talks; and
Whereas in the Comprehensive Peace in
Sudan Act of 2004, Congress expressed its
sense that individuals found to be involved
in the planning or carrying out of genocide,
war crimes, or crimes against humanity
should not hold leadership positions in the
Government of Sudan: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) stands in solidarity with the people of
Sudan and strongly supports the right of the
Sudanese people to assemble peacefully and
express their legitimate demands for funda-
mental political change, including a demo-
cratic, civilian-led government;
(2) condemns the Government of Sudan’s
use of violence and arbitrary detention
against peaceful protesters and the harass-
ment and intimidation of medical profes-
sionals, journalists, human rights defenders,
political opposition, and civil society actors;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:29 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.018 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5790 July 15, 2019
(3) strongly supports an immediate trans-
fer of power by the military to an inclusive,
civilian-led government that reflects the as-
pirations of the Sudanese people and puts
Sudan on the path toward democracy and
peace;
(4) condemns efforts by regional actors to
undermine negotiations between the Mili-
tary Council and the protesters, including ef-
forts to offer financial support to military
leaders;
(5) encourages the African Union and its
member states to continue supporting the
Sudanese people’s aspirations for democracy,
justice, and peace;
(6) urges the United States Government to
continue efforts to convene and work with
the international community in support of a
civilian-led government in Sudan;
(7) emphasizes that a more positive and
productive relationship between the United
States and Sudan requires meaningful polit-
ical reform, greater accountability, and a
clear demonstration by the Government of
Sudan of greater respect for human rights;
(8) calls upon Sudanese authorities to—
(A) immediately cease attacks on pro-
testers and civilians, respect the right to
freedom of association and expression, and
investigate protester deaths and pursue ac-
countability for serious crimes and human
rights abuses that have occurred in the past
three decades;
(B) protect the rights of political parties,
journalists, human rights defenders, reli-
gious minorities, and nongovernmental orga-
nizations to operate without interference
and release political prisoners;
(C) lift the bureaucratic restrictions on,
and facilitate unhindered access across the
country for, humanitarian relief operations;
(D) introduce strong measures to create
transparency and address the structural cor-
ruption and kleptocracy of the state;
(E) meaningfully engage with opposition
forces in Darfur, Southern Kordofan, and
Blue Nile with the aim of achieving a just
and sustainable peace; and
(F) foster conditions for a viable transition
to democracy, economic stability, and sus-
tainable peace and development; and
(9) calls upon the people of Sudan to work
together to resolve conflicts peacefully.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr. WIL-
SON) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H. Res. 432.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, let me first thank Rep-
resentatives KILDEE, BILIRAKIS, and
MCGOVERN, our Speaker pro tempore,
for their hard work on this measure. I
was glad to join as an original cospon-
sor, as well.
Sudan is at a critical moment, Mr.
Speaker. Three months ago, when the
Transitional Military Council, the
TMC, seized power, one of my top con-
cerns was when the reins will be turned
over to civilian authorities. Despite
the possibility of a breakthrough be-
tween the TMC and the Forces of Free-
dom and Change, the FFC, I remain
concerned that Sudanese security
forces intend to tighten their grip on
power once again and even more. The
sad fact is, for the overwhelming ma-
jority of its history since independ-
ence, Sudan has been ruled by military
dictatorships.
This group, the TMC, has shown the
world who they really are, and it is not
a pretty picture. On June 3, they
turned on the peaceful prodemocracy
movement, committing a brutal mas-
sacre at the movement’s sit-in site.
Following that atrocity, the TMC
shut the internet down in a blatant at-
tempt to slow the momentum of
antigovernment protestors and kill the
prodemocracy movement in its in-
fancy.
Now that internet access has slowly
been restored, the world is getting its
first glimpses of deeply disturbing im-
ages: Sudan’s citizens being murdered,
tortured, or raped in Khartoum and
across the country last month.
These troubling developments start
to make sense when we look at the cast
of characters involved. The deputy of
the TMC, General Mohamed Hamdan
‘‘Hemeti,’’ leads the Rapid Support
Forces. We know them as the
Janjaweed, and we know that they
have on their hands the blood of the
Darfur genocide. Now, they are turning
their violent tactics against the broad-
er Sudanese population.
These are the same thugs responsible
for the repression and economic mis-
management that characterized Omar
al-Bashir’s three blood-soaked decades
in power. He is gone, but they continue
to drive the country into the ground.
Thankfully, the Sudanese people are
resilient. They continue to fight for
their country’s future, even in the face
of violence and repression. Their civil
society and diaspora networks have
helped to shine a light on what the peo-
ple in Sudan are enduring. They have
had enough, and the United States and
partners around the world need to have
their backs.
This resolution underscores Con-
gress’ desire to see a civilian-led tran-
sition in Sudan, a transition free from
violence and bloodshed. It is a good res-
olution. I am glad the House is consid-
ering it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this
resolution condemning the attacks on
peaceful protestors and supporting an
immediate peaceful transition to a ci-
vilian-led democratic government in
Sudan. I thank Congressman KILDEE,
Congressman BILIRAKIS, and Chairman
ENGEL for their leadership on this
issue.
For months, thousands of Sudanese
peacefully took to the streets to pro-
test the brutal and oppressive dictator-
ship of Omar al-Bashir. In April, he was
removed from office.
I condemn the brutal attacks against
peaceful protestors that took place on
June 3. Over 120 people were killed, and
hundreds more were wounded. The se-
curity forces responsible for carrying
out and orchestrating these heinous at-
tacks must be held accountable.
While we are hopeful that the July 5
agreement on the composition of a
transitional government will be offi-
cially signed and set into motion, there
is still much more to be done to ad-
vance a true civilian-led democracy.
We cannot tolerate spoilers of this
process, particularly those who look to
support the status quo and the military
regime in Khartoum.
I support the diplomatic efforts of
Special Envoy Booth and commend
President Donald Trump’s administra-
tion for convening high-level working
groups to align other countries in sup-
porting a peaceful and democratic fu-
ture for Sudan. We must continue our
engagement at the highest levels to
stand with the Sudanese people and
their struggle for freedom and democ-
racy.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this resolution, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. KILDEE), the author of this
bill.
Mr. KILDEE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my friend, Mr. ENGEL, the chairman,
for his leadership on this issue, and my
friends Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. MCCAUL, Mr.
WILSON, and, obviously, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, who have been working on this
with me, along with Congresswoman
BASS.
Congress cannot sit idly by while one
nation kills its own people, blocks all
communication to the outside world,
and commits serious human rights vio-
lations. The people of Sudan, like all
people, deserve the ability to deter-
mine their own future. They deserve a
civilian-led democratic society. They
deserve to not have to live in constant
fear of violence.
It is for these reasons that we offer
this resolution to affirm the position of
the United States Congress, despite
views that we may differ on, on other
matters, and that we come together,
Democrats and Republicans, across the
political spectrum to denounce the
trampling of human rights that is tak-
ing place in Sudan, to call on the Tran-
sitional Military Council to imme-
diately stop any violence against those
civilian protestors, and to begin the
immediate transition to a civilian-led
government.
The Sudanese people have a right to
be free. They have a right to a demo-
cratic society. They have a right to not
have to deal with the kind of oppres-
sion that they have experienced.
This resolution also lays out some
very clear areas where Sudan simply
has to improve if it wants to have a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.013 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5791
July 15, 2019
productive relationship with the U.S. I
believe that the U.S. should be engaged
with Sudan, but we have to insist that
the Sudan that we engage with and
that the Sudan that we work with is a
nation that is led by its own people and
not subjected to the horrific examples
of persecution that we have seen.
For three decades, the people of
Sudan have suffered under terrible re-
pression. Now that we have this mo-
ment where the page is turned, the
worst thing would be to succeed one
terrible period of oppression with an-
other. That is why it is somewhat
hopeful to see that there are some
signs that some view as reason for opti-
mism.
We have to make sure that this tran-
sition to a civilian-led government is
something that actually takes place
and that we don’t allow Sudan to sim-
ply go back to the kind of military-led
repression that we saw under Bashir.
That is completely unacceptable.
While the situation is fluid, we have
an opportunity to state with a very
clear voice from the Congress of the
United States, from the American peo-
ple, to the people of Sudan and to the
people of the world that the world is
watching. We are paying attention to
what takes place. We have a stake in
the freedom of the people of Sudan.
That is why we are speaking up with
one voice today. I am honored to join
with my colleagues, as I said, across
the aisle and across the political spec-
trum to speak with one voice on this
subject. Congress has a chance to make
a difference on this. The people of the
United States stand with the people of
Sudan. We deserve better, and they de-
serve better.
Mr. Speaker, I call on all of my col-
leagues to join us in this resolution
and call for freedom and justice for the
people of Sudan.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. BILIRAKIS),
the primary Republican cosponsor of
this measure.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Mr. WILSON for yielding. He is a
great friend, as well as the chairman. I
thank Chairman ENGEL for putting this
on the floor. Of course, I thank my
colead, Mr. KILDEE.
Sudan is at a critical juncture be-
tween choosing freedom and democracy
or continuing with authoritarian op-
pression. This resolution today is a
powerful message for the United States
that we stand behind the civilian
protestors and a civilian-led govern-
ment.
Yesterday’s violence and the horrific
brutality on June 3 proved that ele-
ments of the old regime are still alive
and well, unfortunately. Bad actors
within the military, such as the Rapid
Support Forces, should be condemned
for their actions and have no place in
Sudan’s future.
The United States and the inter-
national community need to maintain
pressure on the military council to
cease all attacks on peaceful protestors
and civilians and to respect their right
to assemble peacefully. The Rapid Sup-
port Forces and other perpetrators of
violence also need to be held account-
able for their violent acts. These bad
actors have no place in a peaceful and
democratic Sudan.
Again, I am proud to be the colead on
this timely resolution with Mr. KILDEE.
I thank him for his leadership.
One story that I like to tell is when
I was in Sudan, in March, I met with a
United States citizen who was a polit-
ical prisoner there, detained since Jan-
uary 4, away from his four children and
his wife. He went over to Sudan a few
years ago to take care of his mother,
his elderly mother, and I respect that
tremendously. He allowed his brother,
who also is a U.S. citizen, to come to
the United States and practice medi-
cine.
Well, in any case, the gentleman was
detained because he took his body to a
peaceful rally, a peaceful protest, a
democratic rally for democracy, and he
was detained and put in jail. I met with
him outside of jail and he told me his
story. We demanded his release, and
within a few days he was released, Mr.
Speaker.
Anyway, this just tells you that we
have a voice here, as United States
Members of Congress, and we need to
use it for a good cause. This is defi-
nitely a good cause.
b 1530
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, it is now
my pleasure to yield 3 minutes to the
gentlewoman from California (Ms.
BASS), chairwoman of the Africa, Glob-
al Health, Global Human Rights, and
International Organizations Sub-
committee.
Ms. BASS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to strongly support H. Res. 432, con-
demning the attacks on the Sudanese
people peacefully protesting their right
to have a civilian-led democratic gov-
ernment in Sudan. The legislation em-
phasizes a positive and productive rela-
tionship between the United States and
Sudan and demands significant polit-
ical reforms and more accountability.
The situation in Sudan escalated in
December 2018 and has been unstable
ever since. The Transitional Military
Council used Sudanese security forces
to shoot peaceful protesters, leaving
bodies in the Nile River. They shut
down the internet for a month to try
and disparage citizens from a united
front and blocked journalists from
doing their jobs, a clear violation of
the freedom of the press.
The people of Sudan have the right to
assemble and demand that the Suda-
nese security forces negotiate without
being killed or wounded. The inter-
national community and its partners
must continue to demand that the se-
curity forces stop assaulting their own
citizens and adhere to the July 5 agree-
ment.
The recent attempted coup was a
ploy to try and deter the agreement,
and the Transitional Military Council
nor the civilian-led faction must devi-
ate from this process. This agreement
is too important, and the future of
Sudan is at stake.
The agreement would potentially end
months of atrocities and gross human
rights abuses that have destabilized
the country. The negotiated deal would
have five Military Council members,
five civilian members, and one civilian
member chosen by both parties. The
military member would lead the coun-
cil for the first 21 months and then
transition into a civilian-led council
thereafter. This is a step in the right
direction because both the Transitional
Military Council and civilian-led
groups negotiated the settlement.
I am also calling on the Sudanese
Traditional Military Council to imme-
diately open up the internet because it
was a clear violation of the freedom of
the press. Journalists must also be able
to do their jobs and report and write on
stories without being intimidated or
physically harmed.
I support this resolution because it
encourages the rights and freedoms of
all Sudanese people and their right to
peacefully protest and assemble and
their right to a civilian-led govern-
ment.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I continue to reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentleman from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MCGOVERN), the chair-
man of the Rules Committee and one of
the most vocal Members on Sudan in
Congress. He has done great work for
many years.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, as an
original cosponsor, I rise in support of
H. Res. 432, and I want to commend my
good friend and colleague, Mr. KILDEE,
for his leadership on this issue. I also
want to commend the incredible work
of Chairman ENGEL for all he has done
on this issue, as well as Chairwoman
BASS and Mr. BILIRAKIS and others
here.
Mr. Speaker, I am here today to ex-
press my unwavering support for the
people of Sudan in their long-held de-
sire to live in a democratic nation, a
nation where all the Sudanese people
live in dignity and where their rights
and freedoms are respected and pro-
tected.
For three decades, the people of
Sudan have suffered under the brutal,
genocidal regime of Omar al-Bashir.
They were murdered, mutilated,
bombed, starved, imprisoned, tortured,
and raped by Bashir’s army, air force,
police, intelligence unit, and para-
military allies, formerly known as the
Janjaweed and now organized as the
Sudanese Rapid Support Forces.
Villages were burned to the ground,
churches destroyed, radio stations and
the press shut down, protests violently
repressed, and food and medicine de-
nied to populations at risk.
Last December, the people of Sudan
rose up in massive protests across the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.021 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5792 July 15, 2019
country and said: Enough. No more.
The time for change is now.
On April 11, Bashir was removed from
office by the Sudanese military. But
instead of turning the government over
to the civilian-led council, they took
power for themselves.
On May 16, 92 Members of Congress
sent a bipartisan, bicameral letter to
the administration expressing support
for a civilian-led transition in Sudan
and concern about the military’s esca-
lating violence against the peaceful
protesters, which I include in the
RECORD.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
Washington, DC, May 16, 2019.
Hon. MIKE POMPEO,
Secretary of State, U.S. Department of State,
Washington, DC.
STEVEN MNUCHIN,
Secretary of the Treasury, U.S. Department of
the Treasury, Washington, DC.
DEAR SECRETARY POMPEO AND SECRETARY
MNUCHIN: We write to express our deep con-
cern about the current situation in Sudan
and our support for a rapid transfer of power
to a civilian-led transitional government
committed to laying the foundations for de-
mocracy in the country. This is a critical
moment for Sudan, one that came about be-
cause the Sudanese people took to the
streets to demand it. It is also critical for
the United States to support Sudanese citi-
zen’s demands for real democratic change.
We welcome the April 18th statement by
the State Department supporting ‘‘a transi-
tion to a peaceful and democratic Sudan led
by civilians who represent the diversity of
Sudanese society,’’ and expressing support
for the ‘‘will of the Sudanese people’’ for ‘‘a
transitional government that is inclusive
and respectful of human rights and the rule
of law.’’ We appreciate the efforts of the Af-
rica Bureau to update congressional offices
about the changing situation in Sudan. We
also acknowledge the African Union’s con-
demnation of the military takeover as a
coup d’état and its demand that the military
‘‘step aside and hand over power to a transi-
tional civilian-led political authority, in ac-
cordance with the will of the people’’ by
June 3rd. We also welcome U.S. efforts to
bring together like-minded nations and do-
nors to emphasize international support for
a civilian-led transition.
The military leadership who have taken
power are attempting to create the appear-
ance of change, but elements and structures
of the old regime remain. The Transitional
Military Council (TMC) does not meet the
aspirations so clearly articulated by months
of peaceful pro-democracy protests that de-
manded an inclusive, civilian-led democratic
change. A government dominated by the
military is not the goal of the Sudanese peo-
ple and the longer the protestors’ demands
remain unfulfilled, there is increased prob-
ability of conflict like the violence against
protestors, deaths and injuries that occurred
this week.
We support your decision to continue Su-
dan’s designation as a State Sponsor of Ter-
rorism (SST) and to suspend Phase II discus-
sions. Congress also has a role to play in law
regarding changes to Sudan’s status as a
state sponsor of terrorism. We encourage
close consultation with and the consent of
Congress should the Administration seek to
alter the SST designation or provide further
economic relief to Sudan, actions which at
the current moment would be inappropriate
and premature. We understand that rapidly
changing events on the ground might require
a corresponding change in U.S. policy and we
are ready to work as equal partners in deci-
sions that advance civilian democratic gov-
ernance, respect for human rights, including
religious freedom, and rule of law.
The United States must send a clear mes-
sage that the path to international credi-
bility and American partnership will only
come through credible civilian leadership.
We encourage you to use all mechanisms and
leverage to facilitate, as quickly as possible,
an inclusive civilian-led transition to demo-
cratic governance. The United States should
make clear to foreign governments that have
expressed support for the TMC that a civil-
ian transition that reflects the will of the
Sudanese people is nonnegotiable.
In this regard, we are dismayed by the an-
nouncement from the Governments of Saudi
Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE)
that they intend to provide Sudan with $3
billion in budget support and aid. We urge
you to use all appropriate diplomatic and po-
litical channels to discourage such a transfer
of funds. If funds are disbursed, this will
likely encourage the TMC to delay a civil-
ian-led transition.
The Sudanese people will rightly deter-
mine matters of justice regarding the crimes
of the previous regime, given the millions of
people who suffered and perished under its
deliberate and repressive actions. It is im-
portant for you, Mr. Secretaries, to empha-
size that former President Bashir and other
officials and military officers of his regime
are internationally indicted for war crimes,
crimes against humanity and the crime of
genocide. It is an urgent matter of inter-
national law that they face trial and judge-
ment on these charges.
There are additional actions that we
strongly encourage you to take in your re-
spective capacities as Secretary of State and
Secretary of the Treasury:
When a civilian-led transitional council is
established—one supported by the pro-de-
mocracy movement and the Sudanese peo-
ple—it is vital that the United States press
for unimpeded access by international hu-
manitarian aid agencies so that they may fi-
nally deliver, without interference or condi-
tions, emergency relief to populations in
conflict areas such as South Kordofan, Blue
Nile and northern Darfur. We understand
this is also a current priority for the U.S.
and other aid donors, but unobstructed deliv-
ery of humanitarian aid to these regions is
likely to remain stalled until inclusive civil-
ian rule is established.
To support and increase the capacity of ci-
vilian leadership and civil society, the
United States should provide transitional ci-
vilian authorities and entities with technical
and capacity-building assistance.
The United States, in consultation with
Congress, should signal its willingness to en-
gage with and support international finan-
cial institutions in aiding Sudan once civil-
ian-led transitional authorities are in place
and functioning.
The State Department should not issue
visas to any Sudanese official to travel to
the United States until credible civilian-led
government is in place and functioning inde-
pendently. Nor should any Sudanese or TMC
official be issued a visa who has been inter-
nationally indicted, or who might be subject
to justice in Sudan for war crimes, crimes
against humanity or genocide.
Treasury, in consultation with the State
Department and relevant congressional com-
mittees, should continue to use the sanc-
tions authorities provided under the Global
Magnitsky program to target key Sudanese
individuals, officials, entities and networks.
Recognizing Sudan’s extensive corruption,
money-laundering operations and theft of
state resources, it is critical for the United
State to provide leadership on preventing
funds from being moved out of the country
during this period when the former Bashir
regime is being pushed aside but current re-
gime structures remain in place. The Treas-
ury Department should issue public
advisories to banks and other financial insti-
tutions regarding the risk of such capital
flight and other high-risk transactions from
Sudan, such as the gold trade. This would be
an action like the one taken by Treasury in
2014 related to Ukraine. It is also critical
that the Treasury Department continue to
track and respond aggressively to similar
transfers of funds that occurred prior to
Bashir’s downfall.
Thank you for your attention to these ur-
gent concerns and recommendations. We
look forward to working together and devel-
oping a new policy framework consistent
with American values and the aspirations of
the Sudanese people.
Sincerely,
James P. McGovern; Ann Wagner; Karen
Bass; Jeffrey A. Merkley; Todd Young;
Christopher H. Smith; Chris Van Hol-
len; Tina Smith; Gary C. Peters; Roger
F. Wicker; Richard J. Durbin; Richard
Blumenthal; Elizabeth Warren.
Eliot L. Engel; Barbara Lee; Adam B.
Schiff; Nita M. Lowey; Frank Pallone,
Jr.; Maxine Waters; Zoe Lofgren; Raúl
M. Grijalva; Michael T. McCaul; Gus M.
Bilirakis; Barry Loudermilk; Steve
Watkins, Mark Meadows; Elijah E.
Cummings; John A. Yarmuth; John
Lewis.
Naydia M. Velázquez; David Trone;
Chellie Pingree; Gwen S. Moore; Greg-
ory W. Meeks; Yvette D. Clarke; Jan
Schakowsky; Donald M. Payne, Jr.;
Peter A. DeFazio; Eleanor Holmes Nor-
ton; Sheila Jackson Lee; Grace Meng;
Jared Huffman; Bonnie Watson Cole-
man; Federica S. Wilson; Joaquin Cas-
tro.
Earl Blumenauer; Mike Doyle; Pramila
Jayapal; Jim Costa; David N. Cicilline;
Suzanne Bonamici; Steve Cohen; Ilhan
Omar; Jamie Raskin; Bobby L. Rush;
Mark Pocan; Daniel T. Kildee; Andy
Levin; Seth Moulton; Chrissy
Houlahan; Jennifer Wexton.
José E. Serrano; Donald S. Beyer, Jr.;
Alan S. Lowenthal; Darren Soto; Val
Butler Demings; Henry C. ‘‘Hank’’
Johnson, Jr.; Stephen F. Lynch; Ruben
Gallego; Anna G. Eshoo; Emanuel
Cleaver, II; Peter Welch; Albio Sires;
Sanford D. Bishop, Jr.; André Carson;
Lori Trahan; Mark DeSaulnier.
Paul D. Tonko; Danny K. Davis; Ron
Kind; Ro Khanna; Rosa L. DeLauro;
Ann McLane Kuster; William R.
Keating; Adriano Espaillat; Katherine
M. Clark; Brian Higgins; Richard E.
Neal; Joseph P. Kennedy, III; Eddie
Bernice Johnson; Ayanna Pressley;
Norma J. Torres.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, we
had good reason to be concerned. Just
2 weeks later, in a clear demonstration
of how little has changed, the Sudanese
police and RSF, under the leadership of
the Transitional Military Council’s
second in command, General Hemeti
violently attacked the unarmed pro-
testers, killing, wounding, and raping
hundreds.
In an act of great cowardice and com-
plicity, the Sudanese military chose to
withdraw from the scene or stood by
and watched the attack, doing nothing
to protect the people. The Transitional
Military Council then shut down the
internet so information about the mas-
sacre couldn’t come out. Last week,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:39 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.022 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5793
July 15, 2019
they were forced to restore the inter-
net, and the world has now seen hun-
dreds of videos documenting this hei-
nous crime.
On Saturday, thousands dem-
onstrated to mark the 40 days since the
deadly crackdown. Right now, African
mediators are attempting to broker the
details of a power-sharing agreement
between the forces of freedom and
change people’s alliance in the Transi-
tional Military Council.
I hope that they are successful in
reaching a deal that guarantees a gen-
uine civilian-led transition and demo-
cratic governance, but I don’t want to
see the civilian-led democratic reform
movement undermined and forced to
accept a bad deal, one where power and
the corrupt and brutal structures of
the former regime remain under mili-
tary control.
Mr. Speaker, like so many of my col-
leagues, I have been engaged on the
issue of Sudan for nearly 15 years. On
April 28, 2006, I led Members of Con-
gress, religious, and NGO leaders in an
act of civil disobedience at the Suda-
nese Embassy to highlight the atroc-
ities taking place in Darfur. It was my
first of three such direct actions.
On May 1 of that year, I joined over
50 of those people on The National Mall
to protest the genocide in Darfur. I
took my young son and daughter to see
how people from all walks of life came
together in solidarity with the people
of Sudan and demanded action.
Mr. Speaker, my children are now
grown and in college, so I am not exag-
gerating when I say that what we are
seeing happening today in Sudan is a
once-in-a-generation moment for the
people of Sudan. We cannot be silent.
Along with all of my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle, I want the peo-
ple of Sudan to know that we stand
with them, that we have always stood
with them, and I urge my colleagues to
support this resolution.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I continue to reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, it is now
my pleasure to yield 11⁄2 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Washington (Ms.
JAYAPAL), the co-chair of the Progres-
sive Caucus.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H. Res. 432, a very
important resolution that condemns
the attacks on peaceful protesters and
supports an immediate, peaceful tran-
sition to a civilian-led democratic gov-
ernment in Sudan.
I am so incredibly inspired by the
people of Sudan who organized peace-
fully and adhered consistently to a
nonviolent strategy of protest in order
to achieve a democratic future for
their country.
I especially want to call attention to
the Sudanese women, who played an
outsized role in holding strong in the
face of violence, danger, and even
death. In the words of Andrew Gilmour,
the Assistant Secretary-General for
human rights at OHCHR:
What the world has seen in the past
month and still now will go down in
history as the greatest mass non-
violent movement of our generation.
Because of this nonviolent people’s
movement that refused to accept no for
an answer, even in the face of brutal
and barbaric violence from govern-
ment-linked militias, the people of
Sudan have achieved a real oppor-
tunity for peace. Just last week, civil-
ian leaders and the Transitional Mili-
tary Council reached an agreement
where they will share power to pursue
a democratic future.
In order for that peaceful transition
to work, there must also be justice for
those who were killed in the June 3
massacre through an independent in-
vestigation with real consequences for
the perpetrators, along with true civil-
ian oversight of the security forces.
I am heartbroken for every life that
was lost, but I am also deeply hopeful
because we have seen the shining light
of courage, resilience, and commitment
to nonviolent resistance movements
and to the possibilities they bring for
lasting peace. The United States must
stand with the people of Sudan and do
everything in our power to help
achieve that peace and stability.
And, finally, Mr. Speaker, I just want
to recognize a very important person in
my home State of Washington, Muba-
rak Elamin, who has been with me on
this issue of Sudan, his birth country,
in making sure that we have all the in-
formation we need.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I want to
thank my colleagues for offering this
timely resolution to condemn the bru-
tal attacks on peaceful protesters and
stand in solidarity with the people of
Sudan.
The United States must continue our
efforts to support a civilian-led demo-
cratic government in Sudan and take
action against those who wish to un-
dermine the will of the Sudanese peo-
ple.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, I again want to thank
Mr. KILDEE, Mr. BILIRAKIS, and, of
course the Speaker pro tempore, Mr.
MCGOVERN.
What happens in Sudan in the com-
ing weeks and months is a high pri-
ority for the United States. It is in our
national security interest to support a
peaceful, civilian-led political transi-
tion in Sudan and is consistent with
our values to support the democratic
aspirations of a people who have suf-
fered under a brutal, violent rule for so
long.
I urge all Members to join me in sup-
porting this important legislation, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H. Res. 432, a resolution
‘‘Condemning the attacks on peaceful pro-
testers and supporting an immediate peaceful
transition to a civilian-led democratic govern-
ment in Sudan.’’
H. Res. 432 is a bipartisan resolution calling
on the Sudanese government to transition
power to a civilian led government, to respect
democratic principles, and to end all violence
against its citizens.
Since the ousting of President Al-Bashir on
April 11, 2019 the Transitional Military Council
(TMC) has seized power halting the proposed
transition to a representative democracy.
On June 3, 2019 multiple peaceful pro-
testers were killed in Sudan as the Sudanese
government continues to perpetuate violence
against its own people.
Protests in Sudan continue, however, as the
Sudanese people call for a transition from a
military ruling council to true democratic gov-
ernance.
It is critical for the United States Congress
to stand with the women and men advocating
and speaking up for the Sudanese people.
I applaud the efforts and sacrifices pro-de-
mocracy activists have made and they ought
to know that the United States fully supports
their desire for freedom and peace, and
strongly condemns the violent and oppressive
tactics of the Transitional Military Council.
When enacted, H. Res. 432 will lay out
areas where the Sudanese government must
improve if it wants to continue a productive
engagement with the United States, including
political reform and a respect for human rights.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H. Res. 432 to confront
these atrocities we have seen in Sudan which
pose a strong threat the democratic values we
work to protect.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
MCGOVERN). The question is on the mo-
tion offered by the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) that the House
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution, H. Res. 432, as amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
RECOGNIZING WIDENING THREATS
TO FREEDOMS OF THE PRESS
AND EXPRESSION AROUND THE
WORLD
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution (H. Res. 345) recognizing wid-
ening threats to freedoms of the press
and expression around the world, re-
affirming the centrality of a free and
independent press to the health of de-
mocracy, and reaffirming freedom of
the press as a priority of the United
States in promoting democracy, human
rights, and good governance in com-
memoration of World Press Freedom
Day on May 3, 2019, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.023 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5794 July 15, 2019
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 345
Whereas Article 19 of the United Nations
Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
adopted at Paris, December 10, 1948, states,
‘‘Everyone has the right to freedom of opin-
ion and expression; this right includes free-
dom to hold opinions without interference
and to seek, receive and impart information
and ideas through any media and regardless
of frontiers.’’;
Whereas, in 1993, the United Nations Gen-
eral Assembly proclaimed May 3 of each year
as ‘‘World Press Freedom Day’’—
(1) to celebrate the fundamental principles
of freedom of the press;
(2) to evaluate freedom of the press around
the world;
(3) to defend the media against attacks on
its independence; and
(4) to pay tribute to journalists who have
lost their lives while working in their profes-
sion;
Whereas, on December 18, 2013, the United
Nations General Assembly adopted Resolu-
tion 68/163 on the safety of journalists and
the problem of impunity, which unequivo-
cally condemns all attacks on, and violence
against, journalists and media workers, in-
cluding torture, extrajudicial killing, en-
forced disappearance, arbitrary detention,
and intimidation and harassment in conflict
and nonconflict situations;
Whereas the theme for World Press Free-
dom Day 2019, is ‘‘Media for Democracy:
Journalism and Democracy in Times of
Disinformation’’;
Whereas Thomas Jefferson, who recognized
the importance of the press in a constitu-
tional republic, wisely declared, ‘‘. . . were it
left to me to decide whether we should have
a government without newspapers, or news-
papers without a government, I should not
hesitate a moment to prefer the latter.’’;
Whereas the Daniel Pearl Freedom of the
Press Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–166; 22
U.S.C. 2151 note), signed into law by Presi-
dent Barack Obama in 2010, expanded the ex-
amination of the freedom of the press around
the world in the annual country reports on
human rights practices of the Department of
State;
Whereas the 2019 World Press Freedom
Index, published by Reporters Without Bor-
ders, warns, ‘‘The number of countries re-
garded as safe, where journalists can work in
complete security, continues to decline,
while authoritarian regimes tighten their
grip on the media.’’;
Whereas, Freedom House’s publication
‘‘Freedom in the World 2019’’ noted that
global freedom of expression has declined
each year for the past 13 years;
Whereas, according to the Committee to
Protect Journalists, in 2018—
(1) at least 54 journalists were killed
around the world for their work, of which at
least 34 were singled out for murder;
(2) the 2 deadliest countries for journalists
on assignment were Afghanistan and Syria;
(3) the most dangerous subject for a jour-
nalist to report on was politics, followed by
war;
(4) 251 journalists worldwide were in pris-
on, with Turkey, China, and Egypt respon-
sible for more than half of the jailed journal-
ists;
(5) 13 percent of the journalists in jail were
female, an increase from 8 percent in 2017;
(6) 70 percent of the journalists who were
imprisoned around the world faced antistate
charges, such as belonging to or aiding
groups deemed by authorities as terrorist or-
ganizations; and
(7) the number of journalists imprisoned on
charges of false news rose to 28 globally,
compared with 9 such imprisonments in 2016;
Whereas the People’s Republic of China
maintains one of the worst media environ-
ments in the world and seeks to curtail po-
litical speech inside and outside the country
including by—
(1) targeting independent and foreign
media in China through systematic harass-
ment including the denial of visas to foreign
journalists, imprisonment, the denial of
medical care to imprisoned journalists, and
curtailing access to legal representation;
(2) pervasively monitoring and censoring
online and social media content, including
through the banning of virtual private net-
works;
(3) using the full force of the State to stifle
internal dissent including dissent online,
particularly dissent that could lead to polit-
ical change and content that criticizes Chi-
na’s leaders, however trivial, reportedly even
to the point of censoring comparisons of Xi
Jingping’s looks with Winnie the Pooh;
(4) spreading propaganda to foreign audi-
ences through the United Front Work De-
partment and related activities;
(5) seeking to intimidate American-based
journalists working for Radio Free Asia and
reporting on gross human rights violations
in China’s Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Re-
gion by jailing or otherwise harassing mem-
bers of their families; and
(6) championing a ‘‘sovereign Internet’’
model and exporting technology to enhance
the ability of like-minded authoritarian re-
gimes to suppress dissent online and monitor
the activity of their people;
Whereas, Reuters journalists Wa Lone and
Kyaw Soe Oo, recipients of the 2018 PEN/
Barbey Freedom to Write Award were ar-
rested in December 2017 for investigating the
murder by the Burmese military of 10
Rohingya men in the village of Inn Dinn in
Rakhine State and were unjustly detained
for 500 days before they were released on
May 7, 2019, as part of a mass amnesty of
6,520 prisoners;
Whereas freedom of the press has been
under considerable pressure in recent years
throughout Southeast Asia, including in the
Philippines, where the Government has
waged a campaign of judicial harassment
against the news website Rappler and its edi-
tor, Maria Ressa;
Whereas, Nouf Abdulaziz, Loujain Al-
Hathloul, and Eman Al-Nafjan, recipients of
the 2019 PEN/Barbey Freedom to Write
Award, who wrote in opposition to Saudi
Arabia’s repressive Guardianship system,
have been subjected to imprisonment, soli-
tary confinement, and torture by the Gov-
ernment of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
since May 2018 in an apparent effort to sup-
press dissent and silence the voices of
women;
Whereas, Washington Post journalist and
United States resident Jamal Khashoggi was
murdered by a team of Saudi operatives
while visiting the Saudi Arabian consulate
in Istanbul, Turkey;
Whereas the Senate unanimously approved
a resolution stating that Mr. Khashoggi’s
murder was carried out at the behest of
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman;
Whereas journalist Mimi Mefo Takambou
was jailed for 4 days in Cameroon in Novem-
ber 2018 on charges of spreading false news
while investigating the death of an American
missionary, where 4 out of the 7 total jour-
nalists imprisoned in Cameroon were jailed
for spreading false news, which is a rising
trend in Cameroon and elsewhere around the
world;
Whereas according to the Committee to
Protect Journalists, at least 26 journalists
were killed in Honduras since 2007, making it
one of the most deadly countries for journal-
ists in the Americas, and where journalist
Leonardo Gabriel Hernandez was murdered
in March 2019 after receiving threats related
to his work;
Whereas in Nicaragua, Miguel Mora and
Lucı́a Pineda Ubau, the directors of the
country’s only 24-hour cable news network,
have been jailed since December 2018 on
charges of fomenting hate, spreading fake
news, and terrorism, and prominent jour-
nalist Carlos Fernando Chamorro has fled
the country as President Daniel Ortega
cracks down on free expression in a bid to si-
lence dissent and end the protests against
him;
Whereas in Mexico, which remains the
most dangerous country in the Western
Hemisphere for journalists—
(1) murders, death threats, and legal impu-
nity cause journalists to self-censor their re-
porting out of fear;
(2) investigative journalist Carlos
Dominguez Ramirez, who wrote frequently
on local politics and corruption, was brutally
murdered in front of family members on Jan-
uary 13, 2018, in Nuevo Laredo, and a politi-
cian he was investigating was subsequently
arrested in connection with this heinous act;
and
(3) Rafael Murúa Manrı́quez was abducted
and murdered in January 2019 after reporting
threats from an official in the municipal
government for critical reporting;
Whereas Slovakian journalist Ján Kuciak
and his partner Martina Kušnı́rová were
murdered in February 2018, allegedly in re-
taliation for his investigative reporting of
tax fraud in connection to a businessman
with close ties to Slovakia’s ruling party,
where the perpetrator awaits trial, just 4
months after the murder of another Euro-
pean journalist, Malta’s Daphne Caruana
Galizia, for her reporting on corruption;
Whereas the world’s growing cadre of eth-
ical and hard-hitting investigative journal-
ists, including those contributing to the Or-
ganized Crime and Corruption Reporting
Project—
(1) adhere to the highest professional
standards;
(2) uncover abuses and corruption being
committed in their own countries; and
(3) deserve the international community’s
support and praise for taking on the risky
job of fostering accountability and trans-
parency in their respective countries;
Whereas, under the auspices of the United
States Agency for Global Media, the United
States Government provides financial assist-
ance to several editorially independent
media outlets, including Voice of America,
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Radio
Free Asia, Radio y Television Marti, and the
Middle East Broadcast Networks—
(1) which report and broadcast news, infor-
mation, and analysis in critical regions
around the world; and
(2) whose journalists regularly face harass-
ment, fines, and imprisonment for their
work; and
Whereas freedom of the press—
(1) is a key component of democratic gov-
ernance, activism in civil society, and socio-
economic development; and
(2) enhances public accountability, trans-
parency, and participation in civil society
and democratic governance: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) condemns threats to freedom of the
press and free expression around the world;
(2) remembers the bravery of journalists
and media workers around the world who,
despite threats to their safety, play an essen-
tial role in—
(A) promoting government accountability;
(B) defending democratic activity; and
(C) strengthening civil society;
(3) remembers journalists who have lost
their lives carrying out their work;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.024 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5795
July 15, 2019
(4) calls on governments abroad to imple-
ment United Nations General Assembly Res-
olution 163 (2013) by thoroughly inves-
tigating and seeking to resolve outstanding
cases of violence against journalists, includ-
ing murders and kidnappings, while ensuring
the protection of witnesses;
(5) condemns all actions around the world
that suppress freedom of the press;
(6) reaffirms the centrality of freedom of
the press to efforts of the United States Gov-
ernment to support democracy, mitigate
conflict, and promote good governance
around the world; and
(7) calls on the President and the Secretary
of State—
(A) to preserve and build upon the leader-
ship of the United States on issues relating
to freedom of the press, on the basis of the
protections afforded the American people
under the First Amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States;
(B) to improve the rapid identification,
publication, and response by the United
States Government to threats against free-
dom of the press around the world;
(C) to urge foreign governments to trans-
parently investigate and bring to justice the
perpetrators of attacks against journalists;
and
(D) to highlight the issue of threats
against freedom of the press in the annual
country reports on human rights practices of
the Department of State and through diplo-
matic channels.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr. WIL-
SON) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days to revise and extend
their remarks and include extraneous
material on H. Res. 345.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I would first like to
thank Representative SCHIFF and Rep-
resentative CHABOT for introducing
this resolution which recognizes that
the freedoms of the press and expres-
sion are being threatened globally.
A free press is an essential pillar in
every democracy. It shines light on
corruption, speaks truth to power, and
holds the government accountable.
However, in recent years, there has
been a growing assault on a free press.
Mr. Speaker, there are far too many
shocking examples of journalists being
silenced, imprisoned, tortured, and
even murdered around the world, with
each abuse only furthering a 13-year
decline in the freedom of expression.
The price of protecting these rights
has become extremely high. According
to the Committee to Protect Journal-
ists, in 2018, 54 journalists were killed
and 64 went missing.
At a time when the world looks to
the United States to be champions for
a free press, some call our journalists
the enemy of the people. This adminis-
tration’s attack on the media under-
mines the First Amendment and cre-
ates a culture of intimidation and hos-
tility towards journalists.
By accusing media outlets of pro-
ducing fake news, journalists find
themselves less safe, and our country is
less informed. So H. Res. 345 condemns
threats to independent media and calls
on governments to continue to address
journalists’ safety. It also reiterates
the vital importance of a free press in
the U.S. and to well-functioning de-
mocracies abroad, as well.
It is our duty now, more than ever, to
protect the freedom of the press and
the public’s right to information. I ask
all Members to support this bipartisan
resolution, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1545
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of this resolution to condemn dan-
gerous threats to freedom of the press
and freedom of expression around the
world, understanding that the media
has a responsibility of fairness without
bias and an independent media is a cor-
nerstone of an educated society and a
necessary pillar to a healthy democ-
racy.
Unfortunately, freedom of the press
and freedom of expression are not pro-
tected in many countries.
Dictators fear anything that chal-
lenges their power. They go to great
lengths to restrict the rights of their
citizens and control their own people.
They attack human rights activists
and protesters who march in the street.
The last thing that a tyrant wants is
to be exposed as a corrupt and immoral
leader. As a result, they intimidate, ar-
rest, and sometimes kill members of
the media for doing their jobs.
According to the Committee to Pro-
tect Journalists, 251 reporters world-
wide were being held in prison in 2018.
More than half of them were being held
in Turkey, China, and Egypt.
Last year, over 54 journalists were
killed in the line of duty. Thirty-four
of them were murder victims.
Of course, sadly, we are all familiar
with the heinous killing of Jamal
Khashoggi, a columnist for The Wash-
ington Post who was murdered by
Saudi agents.
These crimes are completely unac-
ceptable. Republicans and Democrats
stand together as Americans in con-
demning foreign governments that at-
tack journalists and crack down on
press freedoms.
This resolution allows us to speak in
a unified voice to express our support
for those who want to report the news
without fearing for their lives. I hope
all of my colleagues will join me in
supporting this bill.
I reserve the balance of my time, Mr.
Speaker.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. SCHIFF), who is the author
of this bill and the chairman of the
House Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence.
Mr. SCHIFF. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H. Res. 345, a resolution to
recognize the central importance of
press freedom in a democratic society
and calling attention to threats to
press freedom around the globe.
I am proud to sponsor this bipartisan
legislation, which I introduced with my
colleague, Congressman STEVE CHABOT,
with whom I co-chair the Press Free-
dom Caucus. I thank, as well, Mr.
ENGEL and Ranking Member MCCAUL
for moving forward this resolution.
Every day, journalists around the
world bring forward vital information
and stories, sometimes from behind the
curtain of the world’s most repressive
regimes and amid war zones. Journal-
ists expose corruption, malfeasance,
and abuse that the wealthy and power-
ful may seek to conceal. For that, they
face harassment, threats, persecution,
assaults, and even death.
The purpose of this resolution today
is to call attention to those threats
and to make clear that Congress sup-
ports press freedoms here and around
the world.
Recent years have been some of the
most dangerous and deadly in memory
for journalists. As we confront a rising
tide of authoritarianism around the
world, threats to press freedom are pro-
liferating in many countries from re-
pressive governments. Elsewhere, inad-
equate security and a lack of account-
ability have made journalists vulner-
able to criminal or terrorist actors.
The resolution before the House
today lists just a small sample of the
cases in which journalists around the
world have been killed or imprisoned
for their work. I would like to speak to
just a few of these cases and those that
have occurred in the short months
since the resolution’s introduction.
Among them, of course, is the case of
Jamal Khashoggi, the Saudi human
rights advocate, U.S. resident, and
Washington Post columnist who last
year was brutally murdered and dis-
membered at the orders of the highest
reaches of the Saudi Government.
Jamal’s murder has been a rallying
cry of sorts, but it stands alone in the
worldwide attention it has received.
All the same, it is tragically far from
unique.
Fewer are aware of the cases involv-
ing Loujain Al-Hathloul, Nouf
Abdulaziz, and Eman Al-Nafjan, three
Saudi women who wrote critically of
the kingdom’s treatment of women and
who have been imprisoned for more
than a year; or of the acute threat to
journalists in the Philippines where
the regime of Rodrigo Duterte has at-
tacked independent media with a cam-
paign of judicial harassment and inves-
tigation, including the online media
outlet Rappler lead and its editor,
Maria Ressa; or in China, where au-
thorities target independent and for-
eign media for harassment and deten-
tion, including the labor reporter Wei
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:39 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.011 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5796 July 15, 2019
Zhili, who was arrested in March. Au-
thorities also block American-based
journalists and others who have sought
to report on human rights violations
and mass detention of Uighurs in
Xinjiang province.
Turkey has become the leading jailer
of journalists under the rule of Presi-
dent Erdogan, where, just last month,
Turkish authorities charged two
Bloomberg journalists who reported on
the economic crisis in Turkey with un-
dermining the Turkish economy and
sought to imprison them.
In Iran, economics reporter Marzieh
Amiri was arrested covering May Day
demonstrations and has been held
since, with little information about her
well-being or the status of the charges
against her.
In Mexico, reporters can pay with
their lives for reporting on the crimes
of drug cartels or corrupt local offi-
cials, including investigative journal-
ists like Carlos Rodriguez, who was
murdered in front of his family, or,
more recently, Norma Sarabia, who
was murdered in her home in Tabasco
state and whose killers remain at
large.
Of course, many Americans are all
too well aware of the case of Austin
Tice, an American working as an inde-
pendent journalist in Syria who was
kidnapped by forces aligned with the
Syrian regime in 2012 and today is be-
lieved to still remain a hostage nearly
7 years later. We continue to do all we
can to obtain information about his
whereabouts and to secure his safe re-
turn.
Mr. Speaker, today, by passing this
legislation, the House can send a mes-
sage to journalists who face persecu-
tion for their work that we stand with
them and value their contributions.
For those who seek to intimidate and
silence them, we send the message that
we are watching.
The voice of people seeking justice
cannot be silenced forever. We will
stand strongly with all those around
the world fighting for accountability
and truth.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I thank
Chairman SCHIFF and Congressman
CHABOT for their bipartisan work on
this issue. The United States must con-
tinue to provide a strong voice for a
free press and independent media
across the globe emphasizing fairness.
Supporting a free press must remain an
essential part of America’s foreign pol-
icy, and I urge all Members to support
this resolution.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 345 is an impor-
tant resolution that honors journalists
and calls on the United States and gov-
ernments abroad to protect the free-
dom of the press. I commend Mr.
SCHIFF and Mr. CHABOT for this.
Press freedom is fundamental in de-
mocracies and enhances public ac-
countability, transparency, and par-
ticipation in governance. I strongly
urge my colleagues to join me in sup-
porting this measure, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, as a sen-
ior member of the Committee on the Judiciary,
I rise in strong support of H. Res. 345, in com-
memoration of World Press Freedom Day.
This resolution recognizes widening threats
to freedoms of the press and expression
around the world, affirms the centrality of a
free and independent press to the health of
democracy, and holds freedom of the press as
a central principle in promoting democracy,
human rights, and good governance in com-
memoration of World Press Freedom Day on
May 3, 2019.
In this resolution, the House of Representa-
tives:
Expresses concern about threats to freedom
of the press and free expression around the
world on the occasion of World Press Free-
dom Day;
commends journalists and media workers
around the world, despite threats to their safe-
ty, for their essential role in—
promoting government accountability;
defending democratic activity; and
strengthening civil society;
pays tribute to journalists who have lost
their lives carrying out their work;
calls on governments abroad to implement
United Nations General Assembly Resolution
163 (2013), by thoroughly investigating and
seeking to resolve outstanding cases of vio-
lence against journalists, including murders
and kidnappings, while ensuring the protection
of witnesses.
Mr. Speaker, H. Res. 345 also condemns all
actions around the world which suppress free-
dom of the press; and recognizes the impor-
tance of a free and independent press in sup-
porting democracy, mitigating conflict, and pro-
moting good governance around the world.
Finally, the resolution calls on the President
and the Secretary of State:
To preserve and build upon the leadership
of the United States on issues relating to free-
dom of the press, on the basis of the protec-
tions afforded the American people under the
First Amendment to the Constitution of the
United States;
to improve the rapid identification, publica-
tion, and response by the United States Gov-
ernment to threats against freedom of the
press around the world;
to urge foreign governments to transparently
investigate and bring to justice the perpetra-
tors of attacks against journalists; and
to highlight the issue of threats against free-
dom of the press in the annual country reports
on human rights practices of the Department
of State and through diplomatic channels.
I stand in strong support of this resolution
and I urge my colleagues to join me in voting
to pass H. Res. 345, to commemorate the im-
portance of World Press Freedom Day.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, H.
Res. 345, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the resolu-
tion, as amended, was agreed to.
The title of the resolution was
amended so as to read: ‘‘A resolution
responding to widening threats to free-
doms of the press and expression
around the world, reaffirming the cen-
trality of a free and independent press
to the health of democracy, and re-
affirming freedom of the press as a pri-
ority of the United States in promoting
democracy, human rights, and good
governance on World Press Freedom
Day.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SAUDI ARABIA HUMAN RIGHTS
AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2037) to encourage accountability
for the murder of Washington Post col-
umnist Jamal Khashoggi, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2037
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Saudi Ara-
bia Human Rights and Accountability Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. REPORT ON INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
ASSESSMENT RELATING TO THE
KILLING OF WASHINGTON POST
COLUMNIST JAMAL KHASHOGGI.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Director of National Intelligence shall
submit to the appropriate congressional
committees a report consisting of—
(1) a determination and presentation of
evidence with respect to the advance knowl-
edge and role of any current or former offi-
cial of the Government of Saudi Arabia or
any current or former senior Saudi political
figure over the directing, ordering, or tam-
pering of evidence in the killing of Wash-
ington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi; and
(2) a list of foreign persons that the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence has high con-
fidence—
(A) were responsible for, or complicit in,
ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing
an act or acts contributing to or causing the
death of Jamal Khashoggi;
(B) knowingly and materially assisted,
sponsored, or provided financial, material, or
technological support for, or goods or serv-
ices in support of, an activity described in
subparagraph (A); or
(C) impeded the impartial investigation of
the killing of Jamal Khashoggi, including
through the tampering of evidence relating
to the investigation.
(b) FORM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The report required by
subsection (a) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form, but may include a classified
annex.
(2) NAMES OF FOREIGN PERSONS LISTED.—
The name of each foreign person listed in the
report described in subsection (a)(2) shall be
included in the unclassified portion of the re-
port unless the Director of National Intel-
ligence determines that such disclosure
would undermine United States intelligence
sources and methods or threaten the na-
tional security interests of the United
States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.026 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5797
July 15, 2019
(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and
the Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence of the House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations
and the Select Committee on Intelligence of
the Senate.
(2) KNOWINGLY.—The term ‘‘knowingly’’,
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a
result, means that a person has actual
knowledge, or should have known, of the
conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
SEC. 3. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN
PERSONS THAT ENGAGE IN ACTIVI-
TIES DESCRIBED IN SECTION 2(a)(2).
(a) IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.—On and after
the date that is 120 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the sanctions de-
scribed in subsection (b) shall be imposed
with respect to each foreign person listed in
the report described in section 2(a)(2).
(b) SANCTIONS DESCRIBED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The sanctions described in
this subsection are the following:
(A) INELIGIBILITY FOR VISAS AND ADMISSION
TO THE UNITED STATES.—
(i) Inadmissibility to the United States.
(ii) Ineligibility to receive a visa or other
documentation to enter the United States.
(iii) Ineligibility to otherwise be admitted
or paroled into the United States or to re-
ceive any other benefit under the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et
seq.).
(B) CURRENT VISAS REVOKED.—
(i) Revocation of any visa or other entry
documentation regardless of when the visa
or other entry documentation is or was
issued.
(ii) A revocation under clause (i) shall—
(I) take effect immediately; and
(II) automatically cancel any other valid
visa or entry documentation that is in the
foreign person’s possession.
(2) EXCEPTION TO COMPLY WITH INTER-
NATIONAL OBLIGATIONS.—Sanctions under
paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to
a foreign person if admitting or paroling the
person into the United States is necessary to
permit the United States to comply with the
Agreement regarding the Headquarters of
the United Nations, signed at Lake Success
June 26, 1947, and entered into force Novem-
ber 21, 1947, between the United Nations and
the United States, or other applicable inter-
national obligations.
(3) WAIVER IN THE INTEREST OF NATIONAL
SECURITY.—The President may waive the ap-
plication of this section with respect to a
foreign person who is A-1 visa eligible and
who is present in or seeking admission into
the United States for purposes of official
business if the President determines and
transmits to the appropriate congressional
committees written notice and justification
not later than 15 days before the granting of
such waiver, that such a waiver is in the na-
tional security interests of the United
States.
(c) SUSPENSION OF SANCTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President may sus-
pend in whole or in part the imposition of
sanctions otherwise required under this sec-
tion for periods not to exceed 180 days if the
President certifies to the appropriate con-
gressional committees that the following
criteria have been met in Saudi Arabia:
(A) The Government of Saudi Arabia has
released any individual who is a journalist,
blogger, human rights defender, advocate for
religious liberty, or civil society activist de-
tained by the Government of Saudi Arabia.
(B) The Government of Saudi Arabia is co-
operating in outstanding criminal pro-
ceedings in the United States in which a
Saudi citizen or national departed from the
United States while the citizen or national
was awaiting trial or sentencing for a crimi-
nal offense committed in the United States.
(C) The Government of Saudi Arabia is re-
fraining from the obstruction of the free ex-
pression of opinion and restriction of individ-
uals from engaging in public criticism of the
political sphere.
(D) The Government of Saudi Arabia has
made verifiable commitments to cease the
practice of harming citizens of Saudi Arabia
conducting peaceful dissent, whether or not
those citizens reside in Saudi Arabia, includ-
ing enforced repatriation, disappearance, ar-
rest, imprisonment, or harassment.
(E) The Government of Saudi Arabia has
taken verifiable steps to hold accountable
Saudi violators of human rights, whether or
not those violations took place in Saudi Ara-
bia.
(F) The Government of Saudi Arabia has
taken verifiable steps to repeal any law or
regulation that requires Saudi women to ob-
tain approval from a male guardian in order
to leave the country.
(G) The Government of Saudi Arabia—
(i) has made public the names of all indi-
viduals under prosecution for the murder of
Jamal Khashoggi and associated crimes and
the details of the charges such individuals
face;
(ii) has made public the trial proceedings
and all evidence against the accused;
(iii) has invited international, independent
experts to monitor the trials;
(iv) has made public details of efforts to es-
tablish the location of Mr. Khashoggi’s re-
mains and associated findings and returned
his body to his family; and
(v) has made public the rationale for why
ten of the individuals initially detained were
later released without charge.
(H) The Government of Saudi Arabia has
disbanded any units of its intelligence or se-
curity apparatus dedicated to the forced re-
patriation of dissidents in other countries.
(I) The Government of Saudi Arabia is co-
operating with efforts to investigate the
murder of Jamal Khashoggi being conducted
by law enforcement authorities in the United
States and Turkey, or by the United Nations.
(2) REPORT.—Accompanying the certifi-
cation described in paragraph (1), the Presi-
dent shall submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report that contains a
detailed description of Saudi Arabia’s adher-
ence to the criteria described in the certifi-
cation.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ADMITTED; ALIEN.—The terms ‘‘admit-
ted’’ and ‘‘alien’’ have the meanings given
those terms in section 101 of the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101).
(2) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on the Judiciary, and the Perma-
nent Select Committee on Intelligence of the
House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations,
the Committee on the Judiciary, and the Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence of the Sen-
ate.
(3) FOREIGN PERSON.—The term ‘‘foreign
person’’ has the meaning given such term in
section 595.304 of title 31, Code of Federal
Regulations (as in effect on the day before
the date of the enactment of this Act), ex-
cept that such term does not include an enti-
ty (as such term is described in such sec-
tion).
(4) FOREIGN PERSON WHO IS A-1 VISA ELIGI-
BLE.—The term ‘‘foreign person who is A-1
visa eligible’’ means an alien described in
section 101(a)(15)(A)(i) of the Immigration
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1101(a)(15)(A)(i)).
(5) UNITED STATES PERSON.—The term
‘‘United States person’’ means—
(A) a United States citizen or an alien law-
fully admitted for permanent residence to
the United States; or
(B) an entity organized under the laws of
the United States or any jurisdiction within
the United States, including a foreign branch
of such an entity.
SEC. 4. REPORT ON SAUDI ARABIA’S HUMAN
RIGHTS RECORD.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State, in accordance with
section 502B(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act
of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2304(c)), shall submit to the
appropriate congressional committees report
in writing that—
(1) includes the information required under
paragraph (1) of such section 502B(c) with re-
spect to Saudi Arabia;
(2) describes the extent to which officials
of the Government of Saudi Arabia, includ-
ing members of the military or security serv-
ices, are responsible for or complicit in gross
violations of internationally recognized
human rights, including violations of the
human rights of journalists, bloggers, human
rights defenders, and those who support
women’s rights or religious freedom;
(3) describes violations of human rights in
Saudi Arabia by officials of the Government
of Saudi Arabia, including against journal-
ists, bloggers, human rights defenders, and
civil society activists;
(4) describes United States actions to ad-
dress Saudi violations of human rights, in-
cluding against journalists, bloggers, human
rights defenders, and civil society activists,
including demands for clemency review of
these cases;
(5) describes any intolerant content in edu-
cational materials published by Saudi Ara-
bia’s Ministry of Education that are used in
schools both inside Saudi Arabia and at
schools throughout the world; and
(6) describes United States actions to en-
courage Saudi Arabia to retrieve and destroy
materials with intolerant material and re-
vise teacher manuals and retrain teachers to
reflect changes in educational materials and
promote tolerance.
(b) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form, but may include a classified annex.
(c) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In the section, the term ‘‘ap-
propriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and
the Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence of the House of Representatives; and
(2) the Committee on Foreign Relations
and the Select Committee on Intelligence of
the Senate.
SEC. 5. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr. WIL-
SON) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.012 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5798 July 15, 2019
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 2037.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to report
the Saudi Arabia Human Rights and
Accountability Act of 2019.
I want to take this opportunity to
thank the gentleman from New Jersey
(Mr. MALINOWSKI) for his leadership,
his thoughtfulness, and his vision in
authoring this legislation. Mr.
MALINOWSKI came to this body with a
long track record of fighting for human
rights, and he arrived ready to tackle
one of the thorniest issues: How do we
ensure justice for those responsible for
the murder of Jamal Khashoggi? How
do we demand accountability when the
President refuses?
Jamal Khashoggi was a Washington
Post contributing columnist and legal
permanent U.S. resident. He was killed
by Saudi Government personnel on Oc-
tober 2, 2018, during his visit to the
Saudi consulate in Istanbul, Turkey.
Circumstances surrounding his dis-
appearance and death have been exten-
sively reported on by media outlets,
briefed to some Members in classified
settings, and investigated by the
United Nations special rapporteur on
extrajudicial killings.
We still haven’t seen any real ac-
countability for this heinous crime.
The Saudis originally denied any in-
volvement and then made the out-
landish claim that this killing was an
accident—yes, accidental killing by
bone saw. Give me a break.
The Trump administration said it
would hold those responsible to ac-
count, but they have been dragging
their feet. We still haven’t seen any
real action, so Congress must step in.
This important legislation mandates
a report from the Director of National
Intelligence about those who were re-
sponsible for, complicit in, or played a
supporting role in the murder of Jamal
Khashoggi. The legislation then im-
poses a visa ban on those individuals.
This bill, though, has a thoughtful
off-ramp. In an effort to reshape our re-
lationship with Saudi Arabia, which is
a very important U.S. partner, the leg-
islation says that if Saudi Arabia re-
leases the journalists and activists cur-
rently imprisoned in the kingdom,
fully cooperates in the investigation of
the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, and
reforms its systems to value human
rights, those visa bans will not be im-
posed.
If Saudi Arabia is looking for a way
to reset the U.S.-Saudi relationship, I
invite them to look at this legislation.
I hope they do.
The Saudis are an important security
partner, but we cannot just look the
other way when they ignore inter-
national norms and basic human rights
and when they murder a journalist in
broad daylight in a diplomatic facility.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this important
legislation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 9, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I am writing to you
concerning H.R. 2037, the Saudi Arabia
Human Rights and Accountability act of
2019.
I appreciate your willingness to work coop-
eratively on this legislation. I recognize that
the bill contains provisions that fall within
the jurisdiction of the Committee on the Ju-
diciary. I acknowledge that the Committee
will not formally consider H.R. 2037 and
agree that the inaction of your Committee
with respect to the bill does not waive any
future jurisdictional claim over the matters
contained in H.R. 2037 which fall within your
Committee’s Rule X jurisdiction.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill. I appreciate
your cooperation regarding this legislation
and look forward to continuing to work with
you as this measure moves through the legis-
lative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, July 12, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: This is to advise you
that the Committee on the Judiciary has
now had an opportunity to review the provi-
sions in H.R. 2037, the ‘‘Saudi Arabia Human
Rights and Accountability Act of 2019’’ that
fall within our Rule X jurisdiction. I appre-
ciate your consulting with us on those provi-
sions. The Judiciary Committee has no ob-
jection to your including them in the bill for
consideration on the House floor, and to ex-
pedite that consideration is willing to waive
sequential referral, with the understanding
that we do not thereby waive any future ju-
risdictional claim over those provisions or
their subject matters.
In the event a House-Senate conference on
this or similar legislation is convened, the
Judiciary Committee reserves the right to
request an appropriate number of conferees
to address any concerns with these or simi-
lar provisions that may arise in conference.
Please place this letter into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor. Thank you for
the cooperative spirit in which you have
worked regarding this matter and others be-
tween our committees.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 15, 2019.
Hon. ADAM SCHIFF,
Chairman, House Permanent Select Committee
on Intelligence, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I am writing to you
concerning H.R. 2037, the Saudi Arabia
Human Rights and Accountability act of
2019.
I appreciate your willingness to work coop-
eratively on this legislation. I recognize that
the bill contains provisions that fall within
the jurisdiction of the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence. I acknowledge
that the Committee will not formally con-
sider H.R. 2037 and agree that the inaction of
your Committee with respect to the bill does
not waive any future jurisdictional claim
over the matters contained in H.R. 2037
which fall within your Committee’s Rule X
jurisdiction.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill. I appreciate
your cooperation regarding this legislation
and look forward to continuing to work with
you as this measure moves through the legis-
lative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, PER-
MANENT SELECT COMMITTEE ON IN-
TELLIGENCE,
Washington, DC, July 15, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT ENGEL,
Chairman, House Foreign Affairs Committee,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 2037, the Saudi Arabia
Human Rights and Accountability Act of
2019. Certain provisions in the legislation fall
within the jurisdiction of the House Perma-
nent Select Committee on Intelligence, as
set forth in Rule X of the House of Rep-
resentatives for the 116th Congress.
In the interest of permitting your com-
mittee to proceed expeditiously to floor con-
sideration of this important bill, I am will-
ing to waive this committee’s right to se-
quential referral. By waiving consideration
of H.R. 2037, the House Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence does not waive
any future jurisdictional claim over the sub-
jects contained in the bill which fall within
the Rule X jurisdiction of the House Perma-
nent Select Committee on Intelligence. I fur-
ther request that you urge the Speaker to
appoint members of the House Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence to any
conference committee which is named to
consider provisions addressing such subjects.
Please place this letter into the committee
report on H.R. 2037 and into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor. Thank you for
the cooperative spirit in which you have
worked regarding this matter and others be-
tween our respective committees.
Sincerely,
ADAM B. SCHIFF,
Chairman.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 2037, the Saudi Arabia Human
Rights and Accountability Act.
The killing of Jamal Khashoggi, a
prominent Saudi journalist and former
diplomatic adviser, was a hideous and
gruesome crime. The United States
must ensure that everyone involved in
this appalling human rights violation
must be identified and held account-
able.
Intimidation and violence by any
government against peaceful dissent
must be met with strong disapproval
by responsible nations. If we do not re-
spond forcefully to this brutal attack,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.029 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5799
July 15, 2019
we invite future violations of inter-
national norms. Peaceful dissidents all
over the world are watching us, wait-
ing to see if we will stand up for their
cause.
That is why I am grateful to support
H.R. 2037, which requires a report to
identify those responsible for this hei-
nous assault and blocks visas for those
directly involved with this murder. We
cannot have business as usual with
those who carried out an extrajudicial
murder in cold blood. They should not
get to come to the United States and
pretend like nothing happened.
I thank my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle for their commitment to
ensuring that Jamal is not forgotten.
He deserves justice, and his family de-
serves justice.
I thank the chairman and Mr.
MALINOWSKI for working to ensure that
even as we press for accountability, we
can continue diplomatic engagements
with our partner of Saudi Arabia.
These diplomatic engagements are cru-
cial in pushing for human rights im-
provements mutually beneficial to our
Saudi allies, such as the release of
wrongfully detained Americans and
other matters.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. MALINOWSKI), who is the
author of this bill and a valued member
of the House Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee.
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Chairman ENGEL for his leader-
ship on this issue. I also want to recog-
nize Ranking Member MCCAUL and all
my colleagues on the Foreign Affairs
Committee for working with me to en-
sure that we could move forward with
this bill in a bipartisan way.
All of us agree that our relationship
with Saudi Arabia is important, but we
equally agree that how the Saudi Gov-
ernment treats its people and the peo-
ple of other countries is important.
b 1600
We have known this for a long time,
I think, but last year’s murder of
Jamal Khashoggi by the Saudi Govern-
ment makes it especially important
that we take meaningful action in de-
fense of our interest and our values.
When I was campaigning for Congress
last year in New Jersey, foreign policy
issues did not come up very often, and
yet the murder of Jamal Khashoggi
somehow broke through the noise. I
was asked about it a lot.
I think this is because people under-
stand that, while human rights viola-
tions in countries like Saudi Arabia
are all too common, what happened to
Khashoggi was not common. He was
not killed, after all, inside Saudi Ara-
bia. He was a resident of the United
States. And yet the Saudi Government
lured him into one of their embassies
on the soil of a NATO country, where
they brutally slaughtered him.
Many governments around the world
abuse their people. Very few govern-
ments reach out beyond their borders
to kidnap or kill people living in other
countries. Russia has done it; Iran has
reportedly done it.
But this kind of crime is very rare. It
is profoundly in our interest to keep it
rare, and that is why it is essential
that we name and hold accountable
those who are responsible for the kill-
ing of Jamal Khashoggi.
We need to do this not because what
the Saudi Government did was wrong,
but because it crossed a line that no
partner of the United States should
ever be allowed to cross—not just be-
cause it showed a lack of respect for
human rights, but because it dem-
onstrated a lack of respect for the
United States.
Let’s remember that there are thou-
sands of Jamal Khashoggis living in
America today. Men and women who
have taken refuge in our country from
dictatorships around the world and
who sometimes speak up about injus-
tices in their countries of origin.
If the Saudi Government gets away
with what it did to a resident of the
United States, what is to stop China or
Russia or Cuba or Iran or North Korea
or Venezuela or any other dictatorship
from doing the same.
We know it is not their scruples that
hold them back. The only thing that
stops them is their fear of the con-
sequences if they do this to somebody
living in our country or to an Amer-
ican abroad. That is why there have to
be consequences.
Our bill ensures that there will be. It
requires the Director of National Intel-
ligence to give us a list of everyone—
without exception—whom the intel-
ligence community believes to be re-
sponsible for planning, executing, or
covering up this terrible crime. All on
this list will be subject to a visa ban.
The sanctions can only be lifted if the
Saudi Government takes meaningful
steps to reform human rights condi-
tions in the kingdom.
Mr. Speaker, it is clear that, while
the Saudi Government has faced a lot
of rhetorical condemnation for what
they did to Jamal Khashoggi, it has
not yet gotten the message. We know
that the FBI has visited at least four
Saudi dissidents living in the United
States since Khashoggi’s murder to
warn them about the threats to their
life from Saudi Arabia, including as re-
cently as 6 weeks ago.
The Saudis also continue to imprison
American citizens without trial or
charge, despite repeated requests from
the Trump administration for their re-
lease. While I appreciate that the State
Department has sanctioned several
Saudis for their involvement in
Khashoggi’s murder, this action also
risks sending the wrong message.
By only sanctioning the rogues,
whom the Saudis themselves are will-
ing to throw under the bus for this
crime, we risk reinforcing the Saudi
Crown Prince’s lie that the murder of
Khashoggi was a rogue operation.
The relationship with Saudi Arabia is
important, but it is not so important
that we have to lie for the Saudis or
allow them, literally, to get away with
murder. No relationship and no indi-
vidual is so important that we need to
debase ourselves in that way.
Now is the time to send the message,
especially now, before Mohammad bin
Salman ascends to the Saudi throne,
that this is wrong.
Now is the time to make clear that
reckless behavior, whether the murder
of an American resident or the kidnap-
ping of the Lebanese Prime Minister or
the blockade of Qatar, carries a price,
that the men who rule Saudi Arabia,
who, after all, depend far more on us
than we depend on them, need to take
our interests and values into account
rather than always counting on us to
cover up for them.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I would like
to, once again, thank Chairman ENGEL
and the Committee on Foreign Affairs’
membership for their bipartisan work
to respond to the terrible injustice of
Jamal Khashoggi’s murder.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
support this legislation, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Oregon
(Mr. DEFAZIO).
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I also
want to thank Representative
MALINOWSKI for bringing this forward.
Again, I have long expressed concern
about the cozy relationship between
the United States and Saudi Arabia
across a number of Presidencies, both
Democrat and Republican. For years,
we have turned a blind eye toward
their human rights abuses at home,
their repression of women, and their
export of radical Wahhabism, desta-
bilizing the Middle East, Pakistan,
and, now, up into the Balkans.
It is long past time for the United
States to take action, but Trump has
taken the U.S. blind eye toward Saudi
abuses to a new extreme. He and
Pompeo have cozied up to Mohammad
bin Salman, who was, according to U.S.
intelligence agencies, European intel-
ligence agencies, and, now, a report
from the United States, involved in the
brutal murder of a U.S. resident, a
noted journalist because he had the te-
merity to write articles critical of His
Highness MBS.
And what does Trump do? He goes to
Saudi Arabia. He does the sword dance.
He calls them up on the phone and
cozies up to them day after day after
day.
This legislation here in the House
will help to begin to right the wrongs
of the past, right the wrongs of this ad-
ministration, and to send a strong mes-
sage to the Saudis that what they are
doing in Yemen is not acceptable, what
they are doing throughout the Middle
East and other parts of the world, ex-
porting radical Wahhabism and desta-
bilizing, murder is not acceptable.
None of these things are acceptable.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.030 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5800 July 15, 2019
The President wants to arm them.
We need to disarm this relationship
and hold them accountable.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentleman from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MCGOVERN), the chair-
man of the Rules Committee and co-
chairman of the Tom Lantos Human
Rights Commission.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding me
the time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 2037. I am very proud to be a co-
sponsor of this bill, and I want to com-
mend the gentleman from New Jersey
(Mr. MALINOWSKI), my good friend and
colleague, for his long commitment to
human rights and his leadership on
this issue. I also want to thank Chair-
man ENGEL for working to ensure that
this bill came before the House for con-
sideration.
Mr. Speaker, it has been nearly 10
months since Jamal Khashoggi, a
Saudi dissident, journalist for The
Washington Post, and former general
manager and editor-in-chief of Al-Arab
News Channel entered the Saudi Con-
sulate in Istanbul, Turkey, and was
never, ever again seen. He was assas-
sinated by agents of the Saudi Arabian
Government. Despite having arrested
some of its own security personnel for
this crime, the Saudi Government con-
tinues to refuse to disclose the location
of Khashoggi’s remains.
In June, the United Nations Special
Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary
or arbitrary executions concluded that
Khashoggi was ‘‘the victim of a delib-
erate, premeditated execution, an
extrajudicial killing for which the
State of Saudi Arabia is responsible.’’
She called the trial in Saudi Arabia
of the 11 suspects to be suspended, say-
ing it would ‘‘not deliver credible ac-
countability.’’
‘‘The trial is held behind closed
doors. The identity of those charged
has not been released nor is the iden-
tity of those facing the death penalty.
At the time of writing, at least one of
those identified as responsible for the
planning and organizing of the execu-
tion of Mr. Khashoggi has not been
charged,’’ she noted.
She also found there was ‘‘credible
evidence that Saudi Crown Prince Mo-
hammad bin Salman and other high-
level officials were individually lia-
ble.’’
Not surprisingly, the Saudi Govern-
ment, which denies the Prince was in-
volved, has rejected the report. Mean-
while, despite all the international
handwringing and denunciations, there
has been little effective international
response.
This bill requires an intelligent as-
sessment on responsibility for Jamal
Khashoggi’s murder, and it would sanc-
tion those named by imposing
Magnitsky-style sanctions against
them.
It also requires the Secretary of
State to provide Congress with a report
on Saudi Arabia’s human rights record,
which, personally, I find to be among
the most egregious in the world.
Mr. Speaker, the U.S., Canada,
France, and the U.K. all levied some
level of sanctions against 18 Saudis al-
legedly linked to the killing. The Saudi
Crown Prince is not among them. Ger-
many, Finland, and Denmark have can-
celed arms deals with Saudi Arabia.
The U.K. was also forced to cancel its
armed sales to the Saudi Government,
under court order.
The Senate and the House have voted
to condemn Jamal Khashoggi’s murder
and to end U.S. armed sales to Saudi
Arabia because of Saudi Arabia’s role
in the Yemen civil war.
President Trump has chosen to ig-
nore the will of Congress, going so far
as to invoke an imaginary emergency
in order to continue selling arms to the
Saudis. The Senate has voted to over-
turn those arms sales by passing reso-
lutions of disapproval, which the House
will consider later this week or next. I
have introduced a bill in the House,
H.R. 643, that would end U.S. arms
sales to Saudi Arabia.
Now is the time for the House to act
strongly and definitely. There must be
consequences for the murder of Jamal
Khashoggi. Such a heinous crime must
not be met with impunity. H.R. 2037 is
an appropriate step in ensuring that
those responsible are named and held
accountable.
Again, I thank the gentleman from
New Jersey for his leadership and urge
all my colleagues to support this legis-
lation.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, the horrific murder of
Jamal Khashoggi demands account-
ability and justice. After the astound-
ing evidence we have seen, it just can-
not be business as usual; and since the
administration is dragging its feet,
Congress must step forward.
So I urge my colleagues to join me
today and support the Saudi Arabia
Human Rights and Accountability Act,
and I thank the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. MALINOWSKI) for his leader-
ship on this issue.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
MALINOWSKI). The question is on the
motion offered by the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill,
H.R. 2037, as amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
CONDEMNING GOVERNMENT OF
SAUDI ARABIA’S CONTINUED DE-
TENTION AND ALLEGED ABUSE
OF WOMEN’S RIGHTS ACTIVISTS
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution (H. Res. 129) condemning the
Government of Saudi Arabia’s contin-
ued detention and alleged abuse of
women’s rights activists, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 129
Whereas the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has
been an important strategic partner of the
United States, and the United States and
Saudi Arabia share broad interests, includ-
ing defeating the Islamic State in Iraq and
Syria (ISIS), regional stability, and coun-
tering Iran’s malign activities in the Middle
East;
Whereas, in June 2018, the Government of
Saudi Arabia reversed the longstanding ban
on women driving;
Whereas Saudi Arabia’s male guardianship
system requires women to attain the permis-
sion of their male guardian for a vast array
of decisions, including health care, employ-
ment, applying for a passport, international
travel, getting married, or even leaving pris-
on;
Whereas, since May 2018, the Government
of Saudi Arabia has arrested prominent
human rights advocates and imposed travel
bans on numerous others, many of them
longtime supporters of ending the ban on
women driving and abolishing the male
guardianship system;
Whereas none of the jailed activists has
been convicted of any crimes, and many re-
portedly have been held in solitary confine-
ment for prolonged periods;
Whereas Aziza al-Yousef, a United States
resident who helped lead a campaign against
the male guardianship system in Saudi Ara-
bia, was imprisoned in May 2018;
Whereas at least 10 activists supporting
the rights of women have been subjected to
psychological and physical abuse, including
sexual violence, beatings, electric shocks,
and sleep deprivation;
Whereas one of the detained activists,
Loujain al-Hathloul, was reportedly beaten,
waterboarded, given electric shocks, sexu-
ally harassed, and threatened with rape and
murder;
Whereas the Department of State has un-
dertaken some diplomatic measures to bring
concerns about the detention of these activ-
ists to the attention of the Government of
Saudi Arabia;
Whereas, on January 14, 2019, Secretary of
State Mike Pompeo said he had raised the
case of the imprisoned activists with Saudi
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman;
Whereas the 2018 Department of State
Country Report on Human Rights Practices
for Saudi Arabia stated that, ‘‘Women con-
tinued to face significant discrimination
under law and custom, and many remained
uninformed about their rights’’, and ‘‘women
also faced discrimination in courts, where in
most cases the testimony of one man equals
that of two women’’;
Whereas in March and in May of 2019,
Saudi authorities temporarily released sev-
eral activists pending trial;
Whereas, on April 21, 2005, Dr. Hatoon al-
Fassi, an associate professor of history at
King Saud University and prominent activist
who was detained and later temporarily re-
leased, pending trial, testified before Con-
gress that a Saudi woman ‘‘is considered le-
gally and socially a minor; she is confined to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.032 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5801
July 15, 2019
limited areas of educational opportunities;
she is restricted in employment opportuni-
ties; there are no legal bodies where women
could seek support; and finally, she is
distanced from any decisionmaking posi-
tion’’;
Whereas serious impediments to women’s
freedoms in Saudi Arabia remain, including
a high prevalence of forced marriages, in-
equality in marriage, divorce, child custody
and inheritance, laws that prevents women
from directly transmitting citizenship to
their children, and the male guardianship
system; and
Whereas the Global Magnitsky Human
Rights Accountability Act (subtitle F of
title XII of Public Law 114–328) authorizes
the President to deny travel visas and freeze
the United States-based assets of foreign
government officials responsible for
‘‘extrajudicial killings, torture, or other
gross violations of internationally recog-
nized human rights’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) reaffirms that promoting human rights
and democracy has long been a bedrock of
United States foreign policy, including ad-
vancing the rights and empowerment of
women and girls;
(2) condemns the Government of Saudi
Arabia’s continued detention and alleged
abuse of women’s rights advocates jailed for
peacefully exercising their human rights;
(3) urges Government of Saudi Arabia offi-
cials to immediately and unconditionally re-
lease the imprisoned women’s rights advo-
cates and other political prisoners, and hold
accountable those involved in perpetrating
abuses;
(4) urges Government of Saudi Arabia offi-
cials to end the male guardianship system
that restricts the ability of Saudi women to
make decisions about their lives; and
(5) calls on the United States Government
to—
(A) continue publicly and privately de-
manding the release of individuals wrong-
fully detained;
(B) use the Global Magnitsky Human
Rights Accountability Act (subtitle F of
title XII of Public Law 114–328) to identify
and impose travel and financial restrictions
on all Government of Saudi Arabia officials
responsible for gross violations of inter-
nationally recognized human rights;
(C) document relevant details of alleged
torture and abuse in future annual Country
Reports on Human Rights Practices; and
(D) prioritize human rights, including the
rights of women, as a key component of the
relationship between the United States and
Saudi Arabia.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr. WIL-
SON) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H. Res. 129.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Representatives
FRANKEL and WAGNER for their leader-
ship in bringing this measure forward.
The treatment of women’s rights ac-
tivists in Saudi Arabia, their unjust
imprisonment, is a serious problem.
Since May 2018, the Government of
Saudi Arabia has arrested prominent
women’s rights activists and imposed
travel bans on numerous others. Many
of them are longtime supporters of end-
ing the ban on a woman driving and
abolishing the male guardianship sys-
tem.
At least 10 women’s rights activists
have been subjected to psychological
and physical abuse, including sexual vi-
olence, beatings, electric shocks, and
sleep deprivation.
The State Department reported, in
2018: ‘‘Women continued to face signifi-
cant discrimination under law and cus-
tom, and many remain uninformed
about their rights,’’ and ‘‘women also
face discrimination in courts where, in
the most cases, the testimony of one
man equals that of two women.’’
Earlier this year, Saudi Arabia tem-
porarily released four women activists.
This is a step in the right direction,
but not nearly enough.
Mr. Speaker, American foreign policy
is at its best when we put our values at
the center of everything we do, and
when a partner country like Saudi Ara-
bia tramples on human rights, it is in-
cumbent on us to speak out just as we
would do with respect to a nation hos-
tile to the United States.
With this resolution, we are sending
a clear message. It condemns the Gov-
ernment of Saudi Arabia’s continued
detention of these activists. It also
urges an end to the male guardianship
system and calls on the United States
Government to designate the perpetra-
tors of serious human rights violations
under the Global Magnitsky Human
Rights Accountability Act.
We must continue to call on the
Saudi Government to release these
women immediately. Mr. Speaker, I
strongly support this resolution, and I
urge my colleagues to do the same.
I reserve the balance of my time.
b 1615
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H. Res. 129, Condemning the Govern-
ment of Saudi Arabia’s Continued De-
tention and Alleged Abuse of Women’s
Rights Activists.
Last year, we were all heartened by
the news that Saudi Arabia was plan-
ning to lift its longstanding ban on
women driving. We hoped that this
would be a sign that the kingdom
would finally shed its notoriously
harsh policies toward women, such as
the guardianship system under which
women cannot make decisions without
the permission of a male relative.
Tragically, we were mistaken. The
kingdom has detained and reportedly
tortured several of the activists who
had long campaigned for more rights
for women, including the right to
drive. While some of these activists
have been temporarily released, they
continue to face trial for their peaceful
protests.
This resolution calls on Saudi Arabia
to release these peaceful activists and
to hold accountable those who tortured
them. It also calls on Saudi Arabia to
end the guardianship system.
We welcomed reports from the past
week that Saudi Arabia may loosen a
few select restrictions within the
guardianship system, but it is far past
time for women in Saudi Arabia to
make their own decisions about their
lives.
The United States has a responsi-
bility to advocate for human rights all
over the world, including the right for
peaceful dissent.
While we value our strategic partner-
ship and alliance with Saudi Arabia,
our partnership does not let the king-
dom off the hook for abuses of funda-
mental human rights.
Today, the United States House of
Representatives calls on Saudi Arabia
to do better, to treat its women as citi-
zens with full and equal rights, and to
release and exonerate the peaceful dis-
sidents who have long campaigned for
human rights, including the rights of
women.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I would like
to thank Chairman ENGEL, Representa-
tive FRANKEL, Representative WAGNER,
and the Foreign Affairs Committee
members for their bipartisan work to
advocate on behalf of the women of
Saudi Arabia, including human rights
activists.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
support this legislation, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, let me again thank my
colleagues for their hard work on this
measure, and let me thank Mr. WILSON
for his hard work.
Mr. Speaker, when we see abuses of
human rights around the world, when
we see women treated as second-class
citizens and denied basic dignity, we
need to speak out. We need to speak
out whether it is an adversary or
friend. That is what is demanded of
American leadership. It is what sets us
apart from other powers on the global
stage.
The treatment of women in Saudi
Arabia is abhorrent. The jailing of ac-
tivists is unacceptable. And it is one
more roadblock in our relationship
with a country that has been and
should continue to be an important
partner.
I hope it changes soon, along with a
lot of other things, so that we can get
back on track.
Mr. Speaker, I support the measure, I
urge all Members to do the same, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, H.
Res. 129, as amended.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:39 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.019 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5802 July 15, 2019
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the resolu-
tion, as amended, was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
RESCUING ANIMALS WITH
REWARDS ACT OF 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 97) to amend the State Depart-
ment Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to
authorize rewards for thwarting wild-
life trafficking linked to transnational
organized crime, and for other pur-
poses.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 97
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Rescuing
Animals With Rewards Act of 2019’’ or the
‘‘RAWR Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS; SENSE OF CONGRESS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) Wildlife trafficking is a major
transnational crime that is estimated to
generate over $10 billion a year in illegal
profits and which is increasingly perpetrated
by organized, sophisticated criminal enter-
prises, including known terrorist organiza-
tions.
(2) Wildlife trafficking not only threatens
endangered species worldwide, but also jeop-
ardizes local security, spreads disease, under-
mines rule of law, fuels corruption, and dam-
ages economic development.
(3) Combating wildlife trafficking requires
a coordinated and sustained approach at the
global, regional, national, and local levels.
(4) Congress stated in the Eliminate, Neu-
tralize, and Disrupt Wildlife Trafficking Act
of 2016 that it is the policy of the United
States to take immediate actions to stop the
illegal global trade in wildlife and wildlife
products and associated transnational orga-
nized crime.
(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that the Department of State’s re-
wards program is a powerful tool in com-
bating sophisticated international crime and
that the Department of State and Federal
law enforcement should work in concert to
offer rewards that target wildlife traffickers.
SEC. 3. REWARDS FOR JUSTICE.
Subparagraph (B) of section 36(k)(5) of the
State Department Basic Authorities Act of
1956 (22 U.S.C. 2708(k)(5)) is amended by in-
serting ‘‘wildlife trafficking (as defined by
section 2(12) of the Eliminate, Neutralize,
and Disrupt Wildlife Trafficking Act of 2016
(16 U.S.C. 7601(12); Public Law 114–231)) and’’
after ‘‘includes’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr. WIL-
SON) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 97,
Rescuing Animals With Rewards Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume, and
rise in support of H.R. 97.
I would like to begin by thanking Mr.
BUCHANAN and Ms. TITUS for intro-
ducing this important legislation.
In recent years, Congress has taken a
number of important steps to combat
wildlife trafficking, but the situation
remains dire.
Over the last 10 years, one-third of
African elephants have been slaugh-
tered for their tusks—one-third. That
is just shocking.
Rhino populations have also been
decimated, and many other species are
at risk.
Protecting wildlife is the right thing
to do, but it also serves American na-
tional security interests. Wildlife traf-
ficking feeds corruption, undermines
the rule of law, threatens economic
prosperity, and drives instability. And
it is carried out by many of the same
international criminal syndicates en-
gaged in the trafficking of drugs, weap-
ons, and people.
The bipartisan, commonsense legisla-
tion before us today provides our gov-
ernment with a tool it can use to tack-
le the illegal trade in wildlife. Specifi-
cally, it authorizes rewards, under the
State Department’s Rewards for Jus-
tice Program, for information leading
to the arrest or conviction of those en-
gaged in wildlife trafficking.
This can provide a powerful financial
incentive for people to turn in those re-
sponsible for this appalling activity.
Where I come from—Bronx, New
York—we have the Wildlife Conserva-
tion Society doing such wonderful
work. It is the Bronx Zoo. They are
really doing great work in terms of
this. And John Calvelli, a personal
friend of mine, is at the forefront of
trying to save animals and allowing
people to understand what is going on
in wildlife trafficking. It is very impor-
tant, and I commend them for their
role.
This authorizes rewards, under the
State Department’s Rewards for Jus-
tice Program, for information leading
to the arrest or conviction of those en-
gaged in wildlife trafficking. This can
provide a powerful financial incentive
for people to turn in those responsible
for this appalling activity.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this bipartisan leg-
islation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this
bill to prioritize the targeting of wild-
life traffickers as part of the Depart-
ment of State’s Rewards for Justice
Program.
I thank the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. BUCHANAN) for leading this impor-
tant bill and also Chairman ENGEL for
bringing this bill to the floor.
This legislation would give explicit
authority to offer financial rewards for
information pertaining to the capture
or conviction of high-profile wildlife
traffickers around the world. This is a
powerful tool for Federal law enforce-
ment to target those who engage in
wildlife trafficking.
Illicit wildlife trade is a multibillion-
dollar industry. This funds terrorists
and criminal networks around the
world, destabilizing countries and
stripping communities of valuable eco-
nomic resources.
We know that the criminals that
poach and then traffic wildlife products
are the same people and networks that
traffic weapons, drugs, and people.
Our ability to crack down on illicit
funding streams for criminal and ter-
rorist networks is critical to U.S. na-
tional security interests in the global
war on terrorism.
We must ensure that the State De-
partment and our law enforcement per-
sonnel have the tools they need to
combat this horrible trade.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I would like
to, once again, urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this good, bipar-
tisan bill to combat wildlife traf-
ficking, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. COX
of California). The question is on the
motion offered by the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill,
H.R. 97.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CAMBODIA DEMOCRACY ACT OF
2019
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 526) to promote free and fair elec-
tions, political freedoms, and human
rights in Cambodia, and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 526
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Cambodia
Democracy Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Prime Minister Hun Sen has been in
power in Cambodia since 1985 and is the long-
est-serving leader in Southeast Asia. Despite
decades of international attention and as-
sistance to promote a pluralistic, multi-
party democratic system in Cambodia, the
Government of Cambodia continues to be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.036 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5803
July 15, 2019
undemocratically dominated by the ruling
Cambodia People’s Party (CPP), which con-
trols every agency and security apparatus of
the state.
(2) In 2015, the CPP-controlled parliament
passed the ‘‘Law on Associations and Non-
Governmental Organizations’’, which gave
the government sweeping powers to revoke
the registration of NGOs that the govern-
ment believed to be operating with a polit-
ical bias in a blatant attempt to restrict the
legitimate work of civil society. On August
23, 2017, Cambodia’s Ministry of Foreign Af-
fairs ordered the closure of the National
Democratic Institute and the expulsion of its
foreign staff. On September 15, 2017, Prime
Minister Hun Sen called for the withdrawal
of all volunteers from the United States
Peace Corps, which has operated in Cam-
bodia since 2006 with 500 United States vol-
unteers providing English language and
healthcare training.
(3) The Government of Cambodia has taken
several measures to restrict its media envi-
ronment, especially through politicized tax
investigations against independent media
outlets that resulted in the closure of The
Cambodian Daily and Radio Free Asia in
early September 2017. Additionally, the Gov-
ernment of Cambodia has ordered several
radio stations to stop the broadcasting of
Radio Free Asia and Voice of America pro-
gramming.
(4) On September 3, 2017, Kem Sokha, the
President of the Cambodia National Rescue
Party (CNRP), was arrested on politically
motivated charges, including treason and
conspiring to overthrow the Government of
Cambodia, and faces up to 30 years in prison.
The CNRP’s previous leader, Sam Rainsy, re-
mains in exile. On November 16, 2017, Cam-
bodia’s Supreme Court dissolved the CNRP,
eliminating the primary opposition party.
(5) Each of the six elections that have
taken place in Cambodia since 1991 were con-
ducted in circumstances that were not free
and fair, and were marked by fraud, intimi-
dation, violence, and the government’s mis-
use of legal mechanisms to weaken opposi-
tion candidates and parties.
(6) In the most recent general election in
July 2018, following the dissolution of the
CNRP, the CPP secured every parliamentary
seat, an electoral victory that a statement
from the White House Press Secretary stated
was ‘‘neither free nor fair and failed to rep-
resent the will of the Cambodian people’’.
(7) The United States is committed to pro-
moting democracy, human rights, and the
rule of law in Cambodia. The United States
continues to urge the Government of Cam-
bodia to immediately release Mr. Kem
Sokha, reinstate the political status of the
CNRP and restore its elected seats in the Na-
tional Assembly, and support electoral re-
form efforts in Cambodia with free and fair
elections monitored by international observ-
ers.
SEC. 3. SANCTIONS RELATING TO UNDERMINING
DEMOCRACY IN CAMBODIA.
(a) DESIGNATION OF PERSONS RESPONSIBLE
FOR UNDERMINING DEMOCRACY IN CAMBODIA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall designate and transmit
to the appropriate congressional committees
a list of—
(A) each senior official of the government,
military, or security forces of Cambodia who
the President determines has directly and
substantially undermined democracy in
Cambodia;
(B) each senior official of the government,
military, or security forces of Cambodia who
the President determines has committed or
directed serious human rights violations as-
sociated with undermining democracy in
Cambodia; and
(C) entities owned or controlled by senior
officials of the government, military, or se-
curity forces of Cambodia described in sub-
paragraphs (A) and (B).
(2) IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.—The Presi-
dent shall impose the sanctions described in
subsection (b) on each foreign person des-
ignated pursuant to paragraph (1).
(3) UPDATES.—The President shall transmit
to the appropriate congressional committees
updated lists under paragraph (1) as new in-
formation becomes available.
(b) SANCTIONS DESCRIBED.—The sanctions
described in this subsection are the fol-
lowing:
(1) ASSET BLOCKING.—The President shall
exercise all of the powers granted to the
President under the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.) to the extent necessary to block and
prohibit all transactions in property and in-
terests in property of a foreign person des-
ignated under subsection (a) if such property
and interests in property are in the United
States, come within the United States, or
are or come within the possession or control
of a United States person.
(2) INADMISSIBILITY OF CERTAIN INDIVID-
UALS.—
(A) INELIGIBILITY FOR VISAS AND ADMISSION
TO THE UNITED STATES.—A foreign person des-
ignated under subsection (a) is—
(i) inadmissible to the United States;
(ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other doc-
umentation to enter the United States; and
(iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or
paroled into the United States or to receive
any other benefit under the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
(B) CURRENT VISAS REVOKED.—A foreign
person designated under subsection (a) is
subject to the following:
(i) Revocation of any visa or other entry
documentation regardless of when the visa
or other entry documentation is or was
issued.
(ii) A revocation under clause (i) shall—
(I) take effect immediately; and
(II) automatically cancel any other valid
visa or entry documentation that is in the
foreign person’s possession.
(C) EXCEPTION TO COMPLY WITH INTER-
NATIONAL OBLIGATIONS.—Sanctions under this
paragraph shall not apply with respect to a
foreign person if admitting or paroling the
person into the United States is necessary to
permit the United States to comply with the
Agreement regarding the Headquarters of
the United Nations, signed at Lake Success
June 26, 1947, and entered into force Novem-
ber 21, 1947, between the United Nations and
the United States, or other applicable inter-
national obligations.
(3) PENALTIES.—The penalties provided for
in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a foreign
person that violates, attempts to violate,
conspires to violate, or causes a violation of
paragraph (1) to the same extent that such
penalties apply to a person that commits an
unlawful act described in subsection (a) of
such section 206.
(c) IMPLEMENTATION.—The President may
exercise all authorities provided under sec-
tions 203 and 205 of the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702
and 1704) to carry out this section.
(d) WAIVER.—The President may waive the
application of sanctions described in sub-
section (b) with respect to a person des-
ignated under subsection (a) if the President
determines and certifies to the appropriate
congressional committees that such waiver
is in the national interest of the United
States.
(e) EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF
GOODS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The authorities and re-
quirements to impose sanctions authorized
under this Act shall not include the author-
ity or requirement to impose sanctions on
the importation of goods.
(2) GOOD DEFINED.—In this subsection, the
term ‘‘good’’ means any article, natural or
man-made substance, material, supply or
manufactured product, including inspection
and test equipment, and excluding technical
data.
SEC. 4. SUSPENSION OF SANCTIONS.
(a) SUSPENSION.—The sanctions described
in section 3 may be suspended for up to 1-
year upon certification by the President to
the appropriate congressional committees
that Cambodia is making meaningful
progress toward the following:
(1) Ending government efforts to under-
mine democracy.
(2) Ending human rights violations associ-
ated with undermining democracy.
(3) Conducting free and fair elections
which allow for the active participation of
credible opposition candidates.
(b) RENEWAL OF SUSPENSION.—The suspen-
sion described in subsection (a) may be re-
newed for additional, consecutive-day peri-
ods if the President certifies to the appro-
priate congressional committees that Cam-
bodia is continuing to make meaningful
progress towards satisfying the conditions
described in such subsection during the pre-
vious year.
SEC. 5. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
SEC. 6. SUNSET.
This Act shall terminate on the date that
is 5 years after the date of the enactment of
this Act.
SEC. 7. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means the Committee on For-
eign Affairs and the Committee on Financial
Services of the House of Representatives,
and the Committee on Foreign Relations and
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs of the Senate.
(2) PERSON.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘person’’
means—
(i) a natural person; or
(ii) a corporation, business association,
partnership, society, trust, financial institu-
tion, insurer, underwriter, guarantor, and
any other business organization, any other
nongovernmental entity, organization, or
group, and any governmental entity oper-
ating as a business enterprise or any suc-
cessor to any entity described in this clause.
(B) APPLICATION TO GOVERNMENTAL ENTI-
TIES.—The term ‘‘person’’ does not include a
government or governmental entity that is
not operating as a business enterprise.
(3) UNITED STATES PERSON.—The term
‘‘United States person’’ means—
(A) a United States citizen or an alien law-
fully admitted for permanent residence to
the United States; or
(B) an entity organized under the laws of
the United States or of any jurisdiction of
the United States, including a foreign branch
of such an entity.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.018 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5804 July 15, 2019
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 526.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
gentleman from Florida (Mr. YOHO), a
valued member of the Foreign Affairs
Committee, for his hard work on this
measure.
This is an example of what our com-
mittee does best: good, bipartisan leg-
islation aimed at advancing American
interests and leadership and, especially
in this case, our values—our support
for human rights around the world. So,
I thank Mr. YOHO for this.
Hun Sen, Cambodia’s strongman
Prime Minister, has been in power
since 1985. He has clung to power
longer than any other current leader in
southeast Asia. He has violently sup-
pressed dissent. He intimidates any op-
position.
Civil society cannot operate freely.
His government restricts free speech
and free media, the bedrocks of any de-
mocracy.
For 30 years, the Cambodian people
have hoped to see their country move
toward a freer, more democratic sys-
tem. Democracies around the world
have hoped for the same thing, invest-
ing for decades in the hopes of building
a pluralistic, multiparty system in
Cambodia.
Progress has been halting at best,
and results are woefully incomplete.
Six elections have been held in Cam-
bodia since 1991. None of them was free
or fair.
But we won’t give up on the Cam-
bodian people. This legislation gives
the President and State Department
more tools to sanction Cambodian
leaders who undermine democracy and
commit gross human rights violations.
This bill would prohibit those indi-
viduals from entering the United
States and block any assets or prop-
erty they may possess in our country.
This bill sends a clear message that
the United States stands shoulder to
shoulder with the people of Cambodia
and that Congress will hold Cambodia’s
leaders accountable for their assault on
democracy and violations of human
rights.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to cospon-
sor this bill. I am glad we are moving
it forward today. I thank Mr. WILSON,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, July 12, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: This is to advise you
that the Committee on the Judiciary has
now had an opportunity to review the provi-
sions in H.R. 526, the ‘‘Cambodia Democracy
Act of 2019’’ that fall within our Rule X juris-
diction. I appreciate your consulting with us
on those provisions. The Judiciary Com-
mittee has no objection to your including
them in the bill for consideration on the
House floor, and to expedite that consider-
ation is willing to waive sequential referral,
with the understanding that we do not there-
by waive any future jurisdictional claim
over those provisions or their subject mat-
ters.
In the event a House-Senate conference on
this or similar legislation is convened, the
Judiciary Committee reserves the right to
request an appropriate number of conferees
to address any concerns with these or simi-
lar provisions that may arise in conference.
Please place this letter into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor. Thank you for
the cooperative spirit in which you have
worked regarding this matter and others be-
tween our committees.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, July 9, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I am writing to you
concerning H.R. 526, the Cambodia Democ-
racy Act of 2019.
I appreciate your willingness to work coop-
eratively on this legislation. I recognize that
the bill contains provisions that fall within
the jurisdiction of the Committee on the Ju-
diciary. I acknowledge that the Committee
will not formally consider H.R. 526 and agree
that the inaction of your Committee with re-
spect to the bill does not waive any future
jurisdictional claim over the matters con-
tained in H.R. 526 which fall within your
Committee’s Rule X jurisdiction.
I will ensure that our exchange of letters is
included in the Congressional Record during
floor consideration of the bill. I appreciate
your cooperation regarding this legislation
and look forward to continuing to work with
you as this measure moves through the legis-
lative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of the Cambodia Democracy
Act introduced by the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. YOHO), and I would note
that I happen to be the co-chair of the
Congressional Cambodian Caucus,
along with the gentleman from Cali-
fornia, ALAN LOWENTHAL. He and I, a
Republican and a Democrat, have
worked on this particular issue for
many years now.
So, I certainly thank the committee
for moving forward with this very good
and helpful piece of legislation.
The people of Cambodia have been
living under the iron-fisted rule of Hun
Sen, as the chairman mentioned, for,
literally, decades. Under his reign, he
has denied Cambodians almost all of
their political rights and prevented
free and fair elections from taking
place.
In recent years, Hun Sen has resorted
to violence and attacked peaceful pro-
testers many times. He has undermined
any sense of democracy by dismantling
the country’s only viable opposition
party.
The work of NGOs has also been dra-
matically limited, and critical media
outlets have been virtually shut down.
Like many other dictators, he fears
the day when he will no longer be in
power.
b 1630
As the beacon of hope and freedom to
the rest of the world, a key pillar of
our foreign policy must be to support
the expansion of democracy in other
countries. That is why I am very, very
proud to support and cosponsor the
Cambodian Democracy Act.
This bill pushes back on Hun Sen’s
regime by applying asset-blocking
sanctions on any government officials
or security forces who undermine the
democratic process or take part in
human rights abuses. This legislation
also codifies visa restrictions for these
individuals.
This is a strong, bipartisan bill that
will allow us to show our support for
the people of Cambodia and their desire
for democratic governance. Members of
both parties should support this impor-
tant piece of legislation. I would fully
expect them to do so.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank
Congressman YOHO; I want to thank
Mr. ENGEL and Mr. MCCAUL as well, for
introducing this bill, and for all of
their work on behalf of the Cambodian
people. I certainly appreciate their
support on this.
Supporting democracy abroad is very
important, really a critical endeavor.
The world will be a more peaceful and
prosperous place with the expansion of
free markets and free people.
I would urge my colleagues to sup-
port this bill, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
I want to thank my colleague, Mr.
CHABOT, for doing this with me. Last
time I saw him was a few days ago in
my home city of New York. We were
going to meet the president of Taiwan,
another Asian country that has great
freedom.
Mr. CHABOT. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. ENGEL. I yield to the gentleman
from Ohio.
Mr. CHABOT. I thank the gentleman
for yielding. I am glad that we were
there Friday night and not Saturday
night. I know you had some electrical
difficulties in the city the following
evening. I am glad we weren’t there
then.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.039 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5805
July 15, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Well, I would say to the
gentleman, if it happened on the other
night, I would have invited him to my
house for a drink, but we will have to
do that another time.
Mr. Speaker, supporting democracy
and human rights around the world is
an area where our values and our inter-
ests clearly intersect.
Basic freedoms: Accountable, trans-
parent governments, respect for indi-
vidual dignity, these are the values we
seek to promote around the world and
the values that underpin a vibrant de-
mocracy.
They are also what makes countries
stronger, better and more stable part-
ners for the United States on the world
stage. That is good for our interests
and our security as well.
So we want to keep supporting the
people of Cambodia, we want them to
have a say in the future of their coun-
try. That starts by demanding account-
ability for those who have suppressed
democracy and basic freedoms. This
bill is an important step in that proc-
ess. I am glad to support it. I urge all
Members to do the same.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 526, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ACCESS TO SUFFICIENT CAPITAL
FOR EVERYONE IN NATURAL
DISASTER AREAS ACT OF 2019
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 277) to adjust collateral require-
ments under the Small Business Act
for disaster loans, and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 277
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Access to
Sufficient Capital for Everyone in Natural
Disaster areas Act of 2019’’ or the ‘‘ASCEND
Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. COLLATERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR DIS-
ASTER LOANS UNDER THE SMALL
BUSINESS ACT.
(a) AMENDMENT TO THE RISE AFTER DIS-
ASTER ACT OF 2015.—Section 2102 of the RISE
After Disaster Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–88)
is amended—
(1) by striking subsections (b) and (c); and
(2) by striking ‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall take effect as
though enacted as part of the RISE After
Disaster Act of 2015.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. DELGADO) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise today in support of H.R. 277,
the Access to Sufficient Capital for Ev-
eryone in Natural Disaster Areas Act,
also called the ASCEND Act.
However, before we get to the sub-
stance of the bill, I want to thank the
ranking member, Ranking Member
CHABOT, and his staff, for working in a
bipartisan way on this package of bills.
I also would like to thank all our
Members, both Republican and Demo-
crat, for their hard work and continued
bipartisan commitment to putting
small businesses first. It is, once again,
a reminder of the importance of work-
ing across the aisle and getting things
done for the American people.
Being the only committee dedicated
solely to the needs of small firms, we
remain committed on working to pro-
mote policies that will encourage eco-
nomic prosperity on Main Street.
Access to capital is essential for busi-
ness success, and it is particularly true
after a natural disaster. That is why I
rise in support of H.R. 277, the ASCEND
Act, which will permanently set the
unsecured credit threshold for SBA’s
disaster loans at $25,000.
The SBA’s Disaster Assistance pro-
gram was implemented to provide
timely financial assistance in the form
of low-interest loans and working cap-
ital for businesses and homeowners
devastated by a disaster.
Continual improvement and mod-
ernization of the program has been a
priority of our committee for many
years. And as we continue to experi-
ence increased disasters, both in fre-
quency and strength, it is imperative
Congress provides the necessary poli-
cies to get communities back on their
feet.
One of those policies originated in
the 114th Congress as part of a bill in-
troduced by Chairwoman NYDIA
VELÁZQUEZ, H.R. 208, the Recovery Im-
provements for Small Entities After
Disaster Act of 2015, the RISE Act.
That law raised the collateralization
threshold on disaster loans to make it
easier for victims to obtain capital to
rebuild their homes and businesses. Un-
fortunately, this provision will expire
this year, so Congress must act.
H.R. 277 permanently raises the min-
imum disaster loan amount that the
SBA may require collateral from
$14,000 to $25,000. This means that a dis-
aster victim can continue to receive a
$25,000 loan, rather than just $14,000,
within 5 days of closing to speed up the
reconstruction project.
Raising the unsecured loan amount
provides support for Americans when
they need it most. And for smaller
businesses, time and again, we have
seen that in the aftermath of a dis-
aster, access to affordable credit can
make the difference between remaining
in business or closing their doors and
putting Americans out of work.
Without this legislation, the unse-
cured loan limit for agency declara-
tions will revert to the lower limits
and create an unfair discrepancy for
disaster survivors in areas of an SBA
declaration and that of a major dis-
aster declaration.
I thank Ranking Member CHABOT for
cosponsoring this legislation, which al-
lows more borrowers to access loans
without having to put up collateral. I
urge Members to support this bipar-
tisan piece of legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of H.R. 277, the Ac-
cess to Sufficient Capital for Everyone
in Natural Disaster Areas Act of 2019,
as also known as the ASCEND Act.
I want to thank the gentleman from
New York, as well as the chairwoman
of the committee, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, for
their bipartisan cooperation on the
committee. It is probably one of the
most, if not the most, bipartisan com-
mittee in Congress. We really do work
together on behalf of small business; so
I would like to thank the gentleman
and, as always, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
When natural disasters strike the Na-
tion, the U.S. SBA, the Small Business
Administration, leads the govern-
ment’s long-term recovery efforts
through its Disaster Loan Program.
This program, which offers low-interest
and fixed-rate financing to individuals
and businesses, helps communities and
neighborhoods as they recover and re-
build.
To assist disaster victims quickly
and efficiently, the SBA offers an ini-
tial unsecured loan disbursement of
$25,000 to qualified victims. However,
after November, that was going to drop
to 14,000, and this reduced loan level
would conflict with the disbursement
levels attributed to all other declared
disasters.
Immediately after a catastrophe, and
when victims need help the most, loan
levels across the SBA’s Disaster Loan
Program should be clear and con-
sistent. So H.R. 277, this bill, codifies
the $25,000 unsecured loan limit for
Physical Damage Loans under an SBA
Agency disaster declaration.
I would, again, like to thank my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
for their cooperation in attaining this
effort, and I urge my colleagues to sup-
port the ASCEND Act.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.041 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5806 July 15, 2019
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I have
no further speakers, and I am prepared
to close.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
This commonsense legislation passed
out of our committee unanimously and
will allow the SBA to be nimbler and
more responsive to survivors of a nat-
ural disaster, so I would urge my col-
leagues to support it.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
There is little doubt that natural dis-
asters result in economic hardship for
the people living in those communities.
And no matter the scope or the cause
of a disaster, the first few weeks are
critical to a small firm’s recovery.
H.R. 277 seeks to provide that lifeline
by permanently increasing the
collateralization threshold to $25,000
and giving peace of mind to disaster
victims. This legislation is a much-
needed response to the record-breaking
disasters of the past 2 years, the im-
pacts of which are still being felt in
various parts of the country.
It is a commonsense move, and one
supported by the Small Business Ad-
ministration. In a report assessing the
SBA Disaster Loan Program, the SBA
recommended that an increase in the
unsecured loan limit for disaster loans
should be made permanent.
The agency, again, stated as much in
congressional testimony at a hearing
held last September before our com-
mittee and in its fiscal year 2020 budget
and legislative proposals.
Again, I thank Ranking Member
CHABOT for his support, and I urge my
colleagues to support the bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
DELGADO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 277, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REQUIRING SMALL BUSINESS AND
AGRICULTURE REGULATORY EN-
FORCEMENT OMBUDSMAN TO
CREATE A CENTRALIZED
WEBSITE FOR COMPLIANCE
GUIDES
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2142) to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to require the Small Business
and Agriculture Regulatory Enforce-
ment Ombudsman to create a central-
ized website for compliance guides, and
for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2142
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CENTRALIZED WEBSITE FOR COMPLI-
ANCE GUIDES.
Section 30 of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 657) is amended by adding at the end
the following new subsections:
‘‘(e) CENTRALIZED WEBSITE.—Not later than
6 months after the date of the enactment of
this subsection, the Ombudsman shall main-
tain a publicly available website that in-
cludes—
‘‘(1) hyperlinks to small entity compliance
guides described under section 212(a)(1) of
the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement
Fairness Act of 1996; and
‘‘(2) with respect to each such small entity
compliance guide, the contact information
for an individual who can offer assistance to
small entities with respect to the rules that
are the subject of such guide.
‘‘(f) REPORT ON AGENCY COMPLIANCE.—The
Ombudsman shall include in the annual re-
port required under subsection (b)(2)(C) an
assessment of agency compliance with the
requirements of section 212 of the Small
Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness
Act of 1996 for the year covered by such an-
nual report.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. DELGADO) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise today in support of my bill,
H.R. 2142, which eases regulatory com-
pliance for small businesses.
Agencies are required by the Small
Business Regulatory Enforcement
Fairness Act to publish small entity
compliance guides for each rule requir-
ing a regulatory flexibility analysis.
That guide is supposed to be posted and
accessible to the public no later than
the day a rulemaking becomes effec-
tive.
Yet, our committee continually
hears from small business owners that
they have great difficulty locating the
guides. In our own investigation, we
found that Federal agencies are incon-
sistent in their compliance with this
rule.
Small businesses don’t always have
the resources to navigate multiple
agency websites to understand their re-
sponsibilities under new laws. Instead,
they are worried about meeting pay-
roll, hiring talented workers, and run-
ning day-to-day operations of their
small firms.
b 1645
This bill provides a centralized loca-
tion at the SBA’s Office of the National
Ombudsman to make it easier for busi-
ness owners to find agency regulatory
compliance guides and contact infor-
mation. The SBA’s Office of the Na-
tional Ombudsman was created to help
the small business community over-
come regulatory barriers and ensure
that agency actions are fair and rea-
sonable. Centralizing various agency
compliance guides in this office is a
logical step to provide transparency
and clarity for small businesses.
I want to thank Dr. JOYCE for work-
ing with me to identify this issue and
find a bipartisan solution to ensure
America’s small firms have a one-stop
shop for regulatory assistance.
I ask my fellow Members to support
the bill, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of H.R. 2142. This
legislation offered by committee mem-
bers Mr. DELGADO of New York and Dr.
JOYCE of Pennsylvania make important
changes to the SBA Office of the Na-
tional Ombudsman that will make it
easier for small businesses to comply
with Federal regulations.
Congress established the Office of the
National Ombudsman in 1996 to assist
small businesses, small government en-
tities, and small nonprofits when they
are subject to excessive enforcement
by a Federal agency. Excessive enforce-
ment may include repetitive audits or
investigations, excessive fines, pen-
alties, threats, retaliation, or other un-
fair enforcement action.
This simple and commonsense bill
would require the ombudsman to cre-
ate a public website to provide the
compliance guides required by section
212 of the Small Business Regulatory
Enforcement Fairness Act, or
SBREFA. Mr. Speaker, these compli-
ance guides help small firms better un-
derstand how to comply with the most
onerous Federal regulations. Housing
them at one spot on the ombudsman’s
website is an easy way to save a small
business a significant amount of time.
It is a good bill. I urge my colleagues
to support it, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield as
much time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
JOYCE), the ranking member of our
Rural Development, Agriculture,
Trade, and Entrepreneurship Sub-
committee.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 2142. H.R. 2142 is a common-
sense bill to ease the burden that Fed-
eral regulations place on small busi-
nesses.
As a small business owner myself, I
can personally attest to the daunting
feelings that are associated with new
regulations. Navigating the bureauc-
racy of the Federal Government can be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.043 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5807
July 15, 2019
incredibly intimidating, and I want to
thank my colleague, Mr. DELGADO, for
his leadership on this issue.
Small businesses account for 99.6 per-
cent of the businesses in the Common-
wealth of Pennsylvania. These busi-
nesses are truly the backbone of the
American economy, which is why I was
proud to introduce this legislation with
my colleague from New York. This leg-
islation takes a simple, yet important,
step to reduce the strain that the Fed-
eral regulations place on small busi-
nesses and provide much-needed trans-
parency.
Any time a Federal agency is re-
quired to produce a final regulatory
flexibility analysis on a rule, the agen-
cy is also required by section 212 of the
Small Business Regulatory Enforce-
ment Fairness Act to publish one or
more guides to assist small entities in
complying with the rule.
This legislation makes already avail-
able information more easily accessible
to small businesses by requiring the
Small Business and Agriculture Regu-
latory Enforcement Ombudsman to
create a public website to publish these
compliance guides and list contact in-
formation for persons who can help
small entities comply with these rules.
Making this information publicly
available on a centralized website is a
commonsense way to ease the regu-
latory burden on small firms that are
looking for assistance to comply with
the Federal regulations.
I again would like to thank Mr.
DELGADO for bringing this issue to my
attention and the chairwoman and
Ranking Member CHABOT from Ohio for
their commitment to advancing this
bipartisan solution.
I ask each of my colleagues to sup-
port this measure.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, this is
yet another example of how our com-
mittee continues to work across the
aisle for the benefit of America’s small
businesses. We do it in a bipartisan
manner, and I want to thank Mr.
DELGADO and the doctor, as well, for
their leadership on this.
I urge the bill’s adoption, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, we
know that small business owners don’t
necessarily have the resources and
time to navigate multiple websites to
fully understand their responsibilities
with Federal laws. My bill is an impor-
tant step toward reversing these prob-
lems. H.R. 2142 will make it easier, not
harder, to comply with Federal regula-
tions by providing them one location
for compliance assistance.
The ombudsman already maintains a
site for guidance, but this bill goes one
step further by requiring that they not
just provide agency contacts, but also
keep a regular, updated page of compli-
ance guides readily accessible to the
public. My legislation renews our com-
mitment towards small business
growth and success by creating trans-
parency and accountability of Federal
agencies.
Again, I want to thank Dr. JOYCE for
cosponsoring this bill and putting our
small businesses first.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
DELGADO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2142.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SBA CYBER AWARENESS ACT
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2331) to require an annual report
on the cybersecurity of the Small Busi-
ness Administration, and for other pur-
poses.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2331
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘SBA Cyber
Awareness Act’’.
SEC. 2. CYBERSECURITY AWARENESS REPORT-
ING.
Section 10 of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 639) is amended by inserting after sub-
section (a) the following:
‘‘(b) CYBERSECURITY REPORTS.—
‘‘(1) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of this sub-
section, and every year thereafter, the Ad-
ministrator shall submit a report to the ap-
propriate congressional committees that in-
cludes—
‘‘(A) an assessment of the information
technology (as defined in section 11101 of
title 40, United States Code) and cybersecu-
rity infrastructure of the Administration;
‘‘(B) a strategy to increase the cybersecu-
rity infrastructure of the Administration;
‘‘(C) a detailed account of any information
technology equipment or interconnected sys-
tem or subsystem of equipment of the Ad-
ministration that was manufactured by an
entity that has its principal place of business
located in the People’s Republic of China;
and
‘‘(D) an account of any cybersecurity risk
or incident that occurred at the Administra-
tion during the 2-year period preceding the
date on which the report is submitted, and
any action taken by the Administrator to re-
spond to or remediate any such cybersecu-
rity risk or incident.
‘‘(2) ADDITIONAL REPORTS.—If the Adminis-
trator determines that there is a reasonable
basis to conclude that a cybersecurity risk
or incident occurred at the Administration,
the Administrator shall—
‘‘(A) not later than 7 days after the date on
which the Administrator makes that deter-
mination, notify the appropriate congres-
sional committees of the cybersecurity risk
or incident; and
‘‘(B) not later than 30 days after the date
on which the Administrator makes a deter-
mination under subparagraph (A)—
‘‘(i) provide notice to individuals and small
business concerns affected by the cybersecu-
rity risk or incident; and
‘‘(ii) submit to the appropriate congres-
sional committees a report, based on infor-
mation available to the Administrator as of
the date which the Administrator submits
the report, that includes—
‘‘(I) a summary of information about the
cybersecurity risk or incident, including how
the cybersecurity risk or incident occurred;
and
‘‘(II) an estimate of the number of individ-
uals and small business concerns affected by
the cybersecurity risk or incident, including
an assessment of the risk of harm to affected
individuals and small business concerns.
‘‘(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this subsection shall be construed to affect
the reporting requirements of the Adminis-
trator under chapter 35 of title 44, United
States Code, in particular the requirement
to notify the Federal information security
incident center under section 3554(b)(7)(C)(ii)
of such title, or any other provision of law.
‘‘(4) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
‘‘(A) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘appropriate congressional
committees’ means—
‘‘(i) the Committee on Small Business and
Entrepreneurship of the Senate; and
‘‘(ii) the Committee on Small Business of
the House of Representatives.
‘‘(B) CYBERSECURITY RISK; INCIDENT.—The
terms ‘cybersecurity risk’ and ‘incident’
have the meanings given such terms, respec-
tively, under section 2209(a) of the Homeland
Security Act of 2002.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. DELGADO) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of H.R. 2331, the SBA
Cyber Awareness Act of 2019, which
strengthens the Small Business Admin-
istration’s cybersecurity infrastructure
to handle and report cyber threats that
affect small businesses.
The Small Business Administration
processes a significant amount of small
business data, and protecting these
businesses is essential to its mission.
That is why they must protect its pre-
cious digital networks from
cyberattacks. But after the massive
data breach at the U.S. Office of Per-
sonnel Management, 75 percent of
Americans are doubtful that the gov-
ernment can protect their personal in-
formation.
With 28 million small business own-
ers in the U.S. that provide 64 percent
of new private-sector jobs, America
cannot afford for small businesses to
lose faith in the SBA. Today, we take
an important step to restore American
confidence in the SBA’s cybersecurity
protections and prevent the harmful
results of cyberattacks.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:59 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.047 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5808 July 15, 2019
H.R. 2331 ensures that the SBA has
an effective cyber strategy and re-
quires timely reporting of cyber inci-
dents to Congress and affected individ-
uals. Through these measures, the SBA
will better serve the American small
businesses that support the U.S. econ-
omy.
I thank Congressman CROW and Con-
gressman BALDERSON for working so
diligently to strengthen the agency we
oversee and protect the Nation’s small
business community that utilizes its
services.
I ask my fellow Members to support
this bill, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
2331, the SBA Cyber Awareness Act.
In June 2015, the Office of Personnel
Management, or OPM, discovered that
background investigation records of
current, former, and prospective Fed-
eral employees and contractors had
been stolen from their system. That
data breach affected 21.5 million indi-
viduals. Earlier in 2015, OPM discov-
ered that the personal data of 4.2 mil-
lion current and former Federal Gov-
ernment employees had also been sto-
len. This is absolutely unacceptable,
and we must hold agencies accountable
to secure their networks.
While a much smaller agency, the
SBA maintains important and sen-
sitive data about loan recipients, gov-
ernment contractor information, and
various other forms of personally iden-
tifiable information that hackers
covet. That is why I am happy to sup-
port Mr. CROW’s and Mr. BALDERSON’s
legislation, H.R. 2331, the SBA Cyber
Awareness Act. This legislation mir-
rors legislation introduced in the last
Congress by Senators RUBIO and
CARDIN.
The bill directs the SBA to issue re-
ports that assess its cybersecurity in-
frastructure, including determining the
country of origin of its IT components,
and report cyber threats, breaches, and
cyberattacks.
This is a commonsense, bipartisan
bill, and I urge my colleagues to sup-
port the measure.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Colo-
rado (Mr. CROW), the sponsor of the
bill.
Mr. CROW. Mr. Speaker, I want to
thank the gentleman from New York
(Mr. DELGADO) for yielding, and I want
to thank Chairwoman VELÁZQUEZ for
prioritizing this critical issue and
bringing our bill to the floor. I also
want to thank my friend and colead on
H.R. 2331, the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. BALDERSON), for his leadership on
cybersecurity and small business issues
and this bill in particular. I value his
input and expertise on all of these
issues.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of this bipartisan legislation I intro-
duced with Ranking Member
BALDERSON, the SBA Cyber Awareness
Act.
The Small Business Administration
houses vital information for small
business owners and lenders. We must
do everything we can to help the SBA
protect its systems and the data of our
Nation’s small businesses.
Our bill would require the SBA to be
more proactive in protecting its data
and more transparent in the event of a
cyber breach.
First, our bill requires the SBA to
issue a report detailing its cybersecu-
rity efforts within 6 months of enact-
ment. This report must include an as-
sessment of the SBA’s existing IT and
cybersecurity infrastructure and its
strategy to address vulnerabilities.
Notably, this bill ensures we are pro-
tecting ourselves against China by re-
quiring an audit of any SBA system or
IT equipment manufactured by a com-
pany headquartered in China.
The report must detail every cyberse-
curity risk or incident in the last 2
years and the SBA’s strategy to ad-
dress them going forward.
Second, our bill provides a frame-
work for the SBA to follow in the event
of future breaches, requiring timely no-
tifications to Congress as well as the
people in the small businesses affected.
The bill also requires the SBA to sub-
mit a full report to both committees on
how the cybersecurity risk or incident
occurred and how many parties were
affected.
The goal of this bill is to put the SBA
and the small businesses that it inter-
acts with and that depend on it on the
best footing possible to combat the ris-
ing threat of cyberattacks.
I am very excited that this bill is up
for a vote in the House today and has
such strong bipartisan support.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote in support of our bipartisan legis-
lation and thank everyone who had a
hand in bringing it to the floor. It is an
exciting day when we can focus on our
Nation’s small businesses and cyber in-
frastructure, and I am hopeful for this
bill’s quick consideration by the Sen-
ate.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, in clos-
ing, I just want to thank Mr.
BALDERSON and Mr. CROW for working
together in a bipartisan manner on this
very important legislation.
I know Mr. BALDERSON wanted to be
here today to speak on this. Unfortu-
nately, I believe he had some airline
issues, but I believe he will be submit-
ting a statement for the RECORD.
But again, we appreciate both Mr.
BALDERSON and Mr. CROW’s leadership
on this.
b 1700
We have seen a large increase in cy-
bersecurity threats against not only
the private sector, but also the public
sector. We must remain vigilant to en-
sure the public’s data does not end up
in the wrong hands.
This bipartisan legislation ensures
that the SBA is better equipped to pro-
tect American citizens’ data.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, the
Small Business Administration fuels
the U.S. economy, and through its
lending and contracting programs,
helps Americans start, build, and grow
small businesses, but in doing so, the
agency is tasked with handling vital
information.
As we all know, cyberattacks are
very real, and nobody, not even the
Federal Government, is immune.
That is why this piece of legislation,
H.R. 2331, is fundamental to the health
of our national cyber infrastructure as
it relates to small firms.
The SBA must protect its digital net-
works from cyberattacks and collabo-
rate more with Congress. Modernizing
the agency’s IT infrastructure and im-
plementing an effective cyber strategy
is the key component of this bill.
Doing so guarantees the SBA can ade-
quately and effectively defend its dig-
ital network.
This bill also requires timely report-
ing of cyber incidents to Congress and
affected individuals in the unfortunate
event of a breach. The sharing of this
information allows us to collaborate
with the SBA to better address vulner-
abilities in the system.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 2331 has bipartisan
support, so I once again want to urge
my colleagues to support the measure.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. BALDERSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
in support of H.R. 2331, the SBA Cyber
Awareness Act of 2019. This bill has had my
full support since its introduction and I am
happy to support its passage today.
I want to first thank my good friend, the gen-
tleman from Colorado, for his leadership on
this effort. It is nice to see Congress attempt
to solve problems not only in a bipartisan
manner, but also proactively before problems
occur, rather than waiting until something goes
wrong.
This bill addresses a potential weakness
within the Small Business Administration’s cy-
bersecurity infrastructure. By passing this bill,
we will proactively guard against harmful and
widespread cyberattacks by bringing the Small
Business Administration’s cybersecurity de-
fenses into the 21st Century. This bill will pro-
tect the sensitive business and personal infor-
mation of millions of small business owners
across the country.
In a rapidly-developing digital age, strong
cybersecurity protections and reinforcements
are of the utmost importance. Many small
businesses don’t have the defensive infra-
structure to deal with cyberattacks, A threat to
cybersecurity is a threat to small businesses’
vitality. that’s why this bill is so important.
We, as Congress, must lift up the small
businesses of America and ensure they have
the support they need to address this ever-
changing online environment. And this bill is a
bipartisan example of that.
Once again, I thank my colleague from Col-
orado for his proactive leadership, and I urge
the passage of H.R. 2331.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:18 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.049 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5809
July 15, 2019
DELGADO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2331.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
CENTER CYBER TRAINING ACT
OF 2019
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1649) to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to require cyber certification
for small business development center
counselors, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1649
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Small Busi-
ness Development Center Cyber Training Act
of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. DUTIES OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOP-
MENT CENTER COUNSELORS.
Section 21 of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 648) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(o) CYBER STRATEGY TRAINING FOR SMALL
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTERS.—
‘‘(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection—
‘‘(A) the term ‘cyber strategy’ means re-
sources and tactics to assist in planning for
cybersecurity and defending against cyber
risks and cyber attacks; and
‘‘(B) the term ‘lead small business develop-
ment center’ means a small business devel-
opment center that has received a grant
from the Administration.
‘‘(2) CERTIFICATION PROGRAM.—The Admin-
istrator shall establish a cyber counseling
certification program, or approve a similar
existing program, to certify the employees of
lead small business development centers to
provide cyber planning assistance to small
business concerns.
‘‘(3) NUMBER OF CERTIFIED EMPLOYEES.—
The Administrator shall ensure that the
number of employees of each lead small busi-
ness development center who are certified in
providing cyber planning assistance under
this subsection is not fewer than the lesser
of—
‘‘(A) 5; or
‘‘(B) 10 percent of the total number of em-
ployees of the lead small business develop-
ment center.
‘‘(4) CONSIDERATION OF SMALL BUSINESS DE-
VELOPMENT CENTER CYBER STRATEGY.—In car-
rying out this subsection, the Administrator,
to the extent practicable, shall consider any
cyber strategy methods included in the
Small Business Development Center Cyber
Strategy developed under section 1841(a) of
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2017 (Public Law 114–328; 130
Stat. 2662).
‘‘(5) REIMBURSEMENT FOR CERTIFICATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the avail-
ability of appropriations and subparagraph
(B), the Administrator shall reimburse a lead
small business development center for costs
relating to the certification of an employee
of the lead small business development cen-
ter under the program established under
paragraph (2).
‘‘(B) LIMITATION.—The total amount reim-
bursed by the Administrator under subpara-
graph (A) may not exceed $350,000 in any fis-
cal year.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. DELGADO) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1649, the Small Business Development
Center Cyber Training Act of 2019,
which helps Small Business Develop-
ment Centers, or SBDCs, become better
equipped to assist small entities with
their cybersecurity needs.
Small businesses have increasingly
become the targets of cyberattacks,
and because of the complexity and cost
associated with identifying, moni-
toring, and sharing information with
appropriate agencies, only 31 percent of
small firms have cybersecurity plans in
place.
Besides access to capital, cybersecu-
rity is one of the main impediments to
entrepreneurial success. Our com-
mittee has heard many heartbreaking
stories about how it took just one at-
tack to shutter a business.
We have also heard time and time
again the frustration business owners
feel as they attempt to protect against
ever-changing threats and navigate
cyber regulations to win government
contracts.
This legislation ensures that our Na-
tion’s most vulnerable businesses are
prepared to combat the imminent
threat from cyberattacks.
Leveraging the vast network of
SBDCs and their expertise in assisting
entrepreneurs from all over the coun-
try is a step in the right direction to
provide education and training to busi-
ness owners seeking to implement safe-
guards to their networks.
Mr. Speaker, I commend Ranking
Member CHABOT and Congressman
EVANS for working together on this im-
portant issue, and I ask my fellow
Members to support this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1649, the Small Business Development
Center Cyber Training Act of 2019.
Information technology is a neces-
sity for small businesses, because it
arms them with the tools they need to
be competitive in the global economy.
Unfortunately, small businesses are
increasingly popular targets for
cybercriminals. The average cost of a
cyberattack on a small business is over
$30,000, which can destroy, literally, a
small business.
That is exactly why Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Mr. EVANS, and I introduced H.R. 1649,
the Small Business Development Cen-
ter Cyber Training Act of 2019.
This bipartisan legislation estab-
lishes a cyber counseling certification
program in lead SBDCs to better assist
small businesses with planning and im-
plementing cybersecurity measures to
defend against cyberattacks.
The cyber assistance offered by
trained staff at SBDCs would be pro-
vided at no or low cost to small busi-
nesses.
Cyber planning assistance will en-
courage small businesses to take a
more proactive approach to defending
themselves from cyberattacks by
leveraging the expertise from SBDCs
and their partner agencies and institu-
tions. This bill utilizes existing Fed-
eral resources to cover the reimburse-
ment costs.
We recognize cyber threats are ever-
evolving and will continue to work
with industry to ensure that appro-
priate staffing needs are met.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this measure, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. EVANS).
Mr. EVANS. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
colleague from New York (Mr.
DELGADO) for the introduction.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to offer my sup-
port for H.R. 1649, the Small Business
Development Center Cyber Training
Act.
As vice chair of the Small Business
Committee, I was proudly joined by fel-
low colleagues in the committee,
Ranking Member CHABOT and Chair-
woman VELÁZQUEZ, in introducing this
important bipartisan legislation.
I consider small business to be the
foundation of our communities. They
are the engines that drive innovative-
ness, investments, and economic devel-
opment, and they are the pillars that
prop up our neighborhoods.
Both in my home State of Pennsyl-
vania and across the U.S., small busi-
nesses account for more than 99 per-
cent of all businesses. Nationally, they
support almost 59 million jobs.
Over the past decade, as we have seen
immense growth in technology and in-
novativeness, we have also seen an in-
crease in incidents involving the theft
of valuable information from busi-
nesses and governments.
In 2014, it was discovered that the Of-
fice of Personnel Management was
hacked, resulting in the theft of over 20
million records.
In 2013, criminals broke into Target’s
databases, with the credit and debit in-
formation from almost 40 million con-
sumers being compromised.
Breaches have also been reported at
Home Depot, JPMorgan Chase, and
Sony.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:18 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.052 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5810 July 15, 2019
As we have witnessed, these breaches
can have extremely devastating and
costly impacts on major corporations.
Now, if major entities struggle with
the challenges of cybersecurity, what
chances do our small businesses have?
H.R. 1649 was written to address this
risk by providing cyber training, strat-
egies, and resources to small businesses
to better equip themselves against
cyberattacks.
I appreciate having the opportunity
to co-lead this important piece of legis-
lation that will truly help our small
businesses, the backbone of our Na-
tion’s economy, have the tools they
need to protect themselves and to suc-
ceed.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I have
no further speakers. I am prepared to
close, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, we have
no further speakers, so I would be
happy to close at this time if it is ac-
ceptable to the gentleman.
Mr. Speaker, we have heard from
small business owners, cybersecurity
experts, and government officials, and
there is no question that improving cy-
bersecurity for America’s small busi-
nesses should be an urgent priority for
small firms.
Over the past few years, the Federal
Government has stepped up its efforts
to both prevent and mitigate
cyberattacks by coordinating and dis-
tributing cybersecurity resources di-
rectly to small businesses.
This commonsense legislation would
continue our efforts to ensure small
firms can access needed information
from SBDCs to help prevent and re-
spond to cyberattacks.
Mr. Speaker, I urge this bill’s adop-
tion. I want to again thank the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. EVANS)
for his leadership on this, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker,
cybercrime is one of the greatest risks
to every business in the world.
Cybercriminals have realized small en-
tities are more exposed than larger
businesses that have dedicated in-
house IT personnel overseeing their
systems and networks.
Unfortunately, just 14 percent of
small businesses have a plan in place
for keeping their company secure.
This is why Congress and the SBA
must continue to make cybersecurity
training and resources a top priority
for our Nation’s small firms.
Through H.R. 1649, U.S. small busi-
nesses will be more prepared and better
protected against cyber threats.
This bill has bipartisan support and
is essential to enhancing America’s
cyber infrastructure, by starting with
the most vulnerable businesses.
Our committee remains dedicated to
advancing more policies to address the
cyber challenges of small employers.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, as a sen-
ior member of the House Committees on the
Judiciary, Homeland Security, and Budget, I
rise in strong support of H.R. 1649, the ‘‘Small
Business Development Center Cyber Training
Act of 2019.’’
H.R. 1649 calls for the establishment of a
cyber counseling certification program, or the
approval of a similar existing program, to cer-
tify the employees of lead business develop-
ment centers to provide cyber planning assist-
ance to small business concerns.
Cyber strategy refers to the necessary re-
sources and tactics that assist in planning for
cybersecurity and defending against cyber
risks and cyber attacks.
Technology becomes more advanced every
day, and cyber threats follow that same trend,
making them increasingly difficult to predict
and prevent.
Cyber attacks have cost companies with ro-
bust cybersecurity programs millions of dol-
lars, and small businesses are no exception.
Yet, small businesses often lack the re-
sources available to larger companies and
corporations, making them especially vulner-
able to such attacks.
A recent Ponemon study found that nearly
70 percent of all small businesses experi-
enced a cyberattack in 2017, while nearly half
admitted to having no understanding of how to
protect their company against a cyber attack.
Additionally, another study by Hiscox found
that less than 20 percent of small businesses
said they were confident in their cybersecurity
readiness, and barely half had a clearly de-
fined cybersecurity strategy at all.
Due to the vulnerability of small business
operations, we need extensive measures to
identify, analyze, and alleviate threats of
cyberattacks.
This bill ensures that there are at least 5 or
10 percent of the total number of employees
within a small business development center
who are certified in providing cyber planning
assistance.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 1649 to protect the cy-
bersecurity networks and facilitate cybersecu-
rity training within our nation’s small busi-
nesses.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
DELGADO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1649.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CLARIFYING THE SMALL BUSI-
NESS RUNWAY EXTENSION ACT
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2345) to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to clarify the intention of
Congress that the Administrator of the
Small Business Administration is sub-
ject to certain requirements with re-
spect to establishing size standards for
small business concerns, and for other
purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2345
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Clarifying the
Small Business Runway Extension Act’’.
SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) the Small Business Runway Extension Act
of 2018 (Public Law 115–324) applies to calcula-
tions of the size of a business concern made by
the Administrator of the Small Business Admin-
istration;
(2) Federal agencies rely upon such calcula-
tions to award contracts, including government-
wide acquisition contracts, to small business
concerns; and
(3) the Small Business Runway Extension Act
of 2018 has been effective since the date it was
signed into law, on December 17, 2018.
SEC. 3. CLARIFYING AMENDMENT TO THE SMALL
BUSINESS RUNWAY EXTENSION ACT
OF 2018.
Section 3(a)(2)(C) of the Small Business Act
(15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)(C)) is amended by inserting
‘‘(including the Administration when acting
pursuant to subparagraph (A))’’ after ‘‘no Fed-
eral department or agency’’.
SEC. 4. FINALIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS RUN-
WAY EXTENSION ACT OF 2018 RULES.
The Administrator of the Small Business Ad-
ministration shall issue a final rule imple-
menting the Small Business Runway Extension
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–324) not later than
December 17, 2019.
SEC. 5. AMENDMENT TO SIZE STANDARDS FOR
CERTAIN SMALL BUSINESS CON-
CERNS.
(a) SIZE STANDARDS FOR SMALL BUSINESS
CONCERNS PROVIDING SERVICES.—Section
3(a)(2)(C)(ii)(II) of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 632(a)(2)(C)(ii)(II)) is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘not less than’’.
(b) SIZE STANDARDS FOR OTHER BUSINESS
CONCERNS.—Section 3(a)(2)(C)(ii)(III) of the
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C.
632(a)(2)(C)(ii)(III)) is amended by striking ‘‘not
less than 3 years’’ and inserting ‘‘5 years’’.
SEC. 6. TRANSITION PLAN FOR THE SMALL BUSI-
NESS RUNWAY EXTENSION ACT OF
2018.
(a) PLAN REQUIRED.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Administrator of the Small Business Administra-
tion shall implement a transition plan to assist
business concerns and Federal agencies with
compliance with the requirements of the Small
Business Runway Extension Act of 2018 (Public
Law 115–324).
(b) 3-YEAR CALCULATION FOR SIZE STAND-
ARDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The transition plan de-
scribed under subsection (a) shall include a re-
quirement that, during the period beginning on
December 17, 2018, and ending on the date that
is 6 months after the date on which the Admin-
istrator issues final rules implementing the
Small Business Runway Extension Act of 2018
(Public Law 115–324), allows the use of a 3-year
calculation for a size standard to be applied to
a business concern if the use of such 3-year cal-
culation allows such concern to be considered a
small business concern under section 3(a)(1) of
the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(1)).
(2) 3-YEAR CALCULATION DEFINED.—In this
subsection, the term ‘‘3-year calculation’’
means—
(A) with respect to a business concern pro-
viding services described under clause (ii)(II) of
such section, a determination of the size of such
concern on the basis of the annual average
gross receipts of such concern over a period of 3
years; and
(B) with respect to a business concern de-
scribed under clause (ii)(III) of such section, a
determination of the size of such concern on the
basis of data over a period of 3 years.
SEC. 7. REQUIREMENT TO UPDATE SAM.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the System for Award
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:18 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.053 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5811
July 15, 2019
Management (or any successor system) shall be
updated to comply with the requirements of this
Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. DELGADO) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the meas-
ure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
2345, the Clarifying the Small Business
Runway Extension Act of 2019.
The Federal Government recognizes
two categories of businesses: small and
other-than small. Since there is no
Federal definition for ‘‘other-than
small,’’ this category can encompass
firms that barely exceed the SBA’s
small business size standards, up to the
multibillion-dollar household names.
To ease the transition from ‘‘small’’
to ‘‘other-than small’’ to give growing
businesses a real chance at competing
against some of the biggest companies
in the world, we enacted the Small
Business Runway Extension Act last
year.
By increasing the average-receipts-
based calculation for SBA size stand-
ards, transitioning firms will have
more time to grow and develop their
competitiveness and infrastructure.
However, since the Runway Exten-
sion Act became law, its interpretation
and implementation have been thwart-
ed by the agency responsible for its im-
plementation. This conflict between
law and regulation has created much
confusion in the Federal contracting
community.
The bill before us today clearly and
unequivocally states Congress’ inten-
tion regarding the Runway Extension
Act of 2018. It sets forth a specific date
by which SBA must complete their
rulemaking process while also creating
a transition plan for small firms
caught up in this tug of war.
Mr. Speaker, I commend Representa-
tives STAUBER and GOLDEN for collabo-
rating to find a resolution to this issue,
and I urge my colleagues to support
the bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
2345, the Clarifying the Small Business
Runway Extension Act.
This important bipartisan legislation
holds the SBA accountable for imple-
menting the will of Congress.
In the previous Congress, this com-
mittee undertook a deep-dive examina-
tion of the effects of entering the mid-
dle market on small contractors, and
the Runway Extension Act of 2018 was
the direct result of these actions.
It was clear, under no uncertain
terms, that the intent of the bill was to
apply to the SBA’s own calculation of
its receipts-based size standards to
small firms. However, the SBA took an
opposing view, which resulted in a con-
flict between law and regulation.
b 1715
H.R. 2345 is critical in that it miti-
gates this confusion and restates the
original intent of the Small Business
Runway Extension Act of 2018 to make
clear that the law does, in fact, apply
to the Small Business Administration.
Additionally, H.R. 2345 responds to
concerns raised by small businesses
and stakeholders after the bill’s pas-
sage, such as its effect on declining-
revenue businesses and the need to pro-
vide the executive branch and small
businesses time to adjust to the new
rule. The transition plan offered by
this bill will make significant strides
in easing the path for small businesses
and Federal agencies alike.
I thank the gentleman from Min-
nesota (Mr. STAUBER) and the gen-
tleman from Maine (Mr. GOLDEN) for
their leadership.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Maine
(Mr. GOLDEN).
Mr. GOLDEN. Mr. Speaker, I appre-
ciate the opportunity to speak about
the Clarifying the Small Business Run-
way Extension Act, a bill that I am
proud to lead alongside the gentleman
from Minnesota (Mr. STAUBER).
Mr. Speaker, Americans expect our
government to work efficiently and to
follow through. They believe, and I
agree with them, that when Congress
passes a law, Federal agencies should
implement it.
Our goal with this bill is quite sim-
ple: to make sure that the Small Busi-
ness Administration respects the will
of Congress as expressed in the Small
Business Runway Extension Act of
2018, a law that was enacted in Decem-
ber 2018.
The bipartisan law was designed to
ease the transition for businesses be-
tween SBA’s small and other-than-
small categories for the purposes of de-
termining Federal contracting pref-
erences.
Prior to the law, SBA evaluated eli-
gibility by looking at 3 years of a busi-
ness’ gross receipts. In the law, SBA
was instructed to extend that period to
5 years. The idea is that year-to-year
changes in a small business’ receipts
will now be less likely to create a sud-
den loss of eligibility for this impor-
tant contracting preference for small
businesses.
As I have heard many times from
small business owners in Maine, cer-
tainty is key to growth, and that is
what the 5-year calculation is designed
to provide.
Unfortunately, SBA has dragged its
feet implementing the law, claiming
that the fact that the law lacked an ex-
plicit effective date meant that SBA
did not have to implement it imme-
diately. Aside from being a question-
able reading of the law, SBA’s delay
has created a lost opportunity to im-
prove the ability of SBA-eligible small
businesses to transition and grow in a
predictable and sustainable way.
As chair and ranking member of the
Subcommittee on Contracting and In-
frastructure of the House Committee
on Small Business, Congressman
STAUBER and I heard firsthand from ex-
perts and small business owners at a
March hearing about the uncertainty
that has been created by this delay in
SBA’s implementation of the 5-year
change.
While we followed up on that hearing
with a letter to SBA in April, we have
yet to resolve this issue, so we are
turning to a legislative solution. Our
Nation’s small businesses should be
able to access the contracting opportu-
nities that they deserve.
The bill will require SBA to issue im-
plementing regulations no later than
December of this year while creating a
transition period for businesses to grow
and compete.
Mr. Speaker, I recognize Mr.
STAUBER, as well as Chair VELÁZQUEZ
and Ranking Member CHABOT, for their
bipartisan work on this issue.
I particularly thank Congressman
STAUBER. I think the opportunity to
work together in our subcommittee has
been a great one. I appreciate his bipar-
tisan focus and his desire to push
through a real solution for small busi-
nesses. I had a great time, as well, out
in Minnesota, having field hearings
about small business issues. I can’t
wait to have him up in Maine in the
near future.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage my col-
leagues to support this bill. Let’s make
sure there is no doubt about Congress’
intent in this area.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Minnesota (Mr.
STAUBER), the ranking member of the
Subcommittee on Contracting and In-
frastructure.
Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Ranking Member CHABOT for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, my bill, H.R. 2345, the
Clarifying the Small Business Runway
Extension Act, is a bill that does ex-
actly what it says: makes clear the in-
tent of the Small Business Runway Ex-
tension Act of 2018. The Small Business
Runway Extension Act of 2018 was sim-
ple, straightforward, and unambiguous.
It simply extended the Small Business
Administration’s receipts-based size
calculation from a 3-year average to 5
years. Recognizing the significance of
this bill for small businesses, the Small
Business Runway Extension Act of 2018
easily passed through both the House
and Senate and became law on Decem-
ber 17, 2018.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:18 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.028 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5812 July 15, 2019
Within 4 days of the law’s passage,
the SBA stalled its implementation,
issuing an information notice that ef-
fectively contradicted the Small Busi-
ness Runway Extension Act of 2018 by
maintaining the 3-year calculation
until the agency could go through the
rulemaking process. Coincidentally, or
perhaps because of the pressure exerted
by Congress and the public, the SBA
issued its proposed rule for the Small
Business Runway Extension Act of 2018
mere days before Chairman GOLDEN
and I held a hearing in the Sub-
committee on Contracting and Infra-
structure to hold the SBA accountable
for its delay. Unfortunately, the pro-
posed rule still maintains the current
3-year standard in SBA regulations.
During this hearing, we highlighted
how this conflict in law versus SBA
regulation imposes significant, real-
world challenges for small businesses
that may be teetering on the edge be-
tween small and other-than-small busi-
ness status. The need for clarity was a
constant and recurring theme, and this
bill provides that clarity.
First, H.R. 2345 makes clear that the
Small Business Runway Extension Act
of 2018 does, in fact, apply to the SBA
and, therefore, should have become ef-
fective on the date it was signed into
law. Thus, businesses relying on the 5-
year average to remain in their small
business status were correct in their
assessment and may continue to hold
this status.
Second, the bill requires the Small
Business Administration to develop a
transition plan for small businesses
and Federal agencies as they shift to
the 5-year rule. The transition plan
shall include a buffer period in which
firms that benefit from the old 3-year
calculation may continue to rely on
that formula for a set amount of time
as they prepare for the eventual shift
to the 5-year average calculation.
In short, H.R. 2345 restates the intent
of Congress as written in the Small
Business Runway Extension Act of 2018
and adopts solutions that will create a
smooth transition for all parties in-
volved. This will allow more businesses
to retain access to SBA benefits, in-
cluding loans and contracts, that have
allowed our small businesses to grow,
thrive, and greatly contribute to our
economy.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman
GOLDEN for his leadership on this act.
It was and is a privilege to work with
him on the Small Business Committee.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 2345, the Clarifying the
Small Business Runway Extension Act.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to reiterate
that H.R. 2345 is important not only to
help small contractors once they grad-
uate, but it also holds the SBA ac-
countable to the will of the people
through an act of Congress.
Small businesses have told us they
need a runway to grow and they need
that runway now. We need to ensure
that this is done, that the SBA takes
swift action. H.R. 2345 gets us there.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative
STAUBER and Representative GOLDEN
for working together on this important
bill to ensure that congressional intent
is not thwarted when it comes to the
adequate and prompt implementation
of the Small Business Runway Exten-
sion Act of 2018. That law was intended
to make it easier for small Federal
contractors to transition into the open
marketplace.
The SBA has interpreted that the
Small Business Runway Extension Act
of 2018 applies to every other agency
adopting its own size standard but not
the SBA itself. Many small businesses
and legal experts disagreed with the
SBA’s position, as did our committee.
This bipartisan bill reiterates that
the law has been effective since its en-
actment and requires the SBA to issue
a final rule for its implementation be-
fore the end of this year.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
DELGADO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2345, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 5 o’clock and 25 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. TITUS) at 6 o’clock and 30
minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed. Votes will be taken
in the following order:
Motions to suspend the rules and
Pass H.R. 2744;
Agree to H. Res. 432; and
Pass H.R. 2037.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
USAID BRANDING MODERNIZATION
ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2744) to authorize the Admin-
istrator of the United States Agency
for International Development to pre-
scribe the manner in which programs
of the agency are identified overseas,
and for other purposes, on which the
yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 414, nays 1,
not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 475]
YEAS—414
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Johnson (GA)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:18 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.057 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5813
July 15, 2019
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Zeldin
NAYS—1
Griffith
NOT VOTING—17
Abraham
Biggs
Bishop (GA)
Blunt Rochester
Brady
Clyburn
Gonzalez (TX)
Granger
Higgins (LA)
Jeffries
Lamborn
Lipinski
Marchant
Moulton
Simpson
Williams
Young
b 1900
Messrs. DESJARLAIS and MCKIN-
LEY changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to
‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CONDEMNING ATTACKS ON PEACE-
FUL PROTESTERS AND SUP-
PORTING TRANSITION TO A CI-
VILIAN-LED DEMOCRATIC GOV-
ERNMENT IN SUDAN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and agree to
the resolution (H. Res. 432) condemning
the attacks on peaceful protesters and
supporting an immediate peaceful
transition to a civilian-led democratic
government in Sudan, as amended, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, as
amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 414, nays 1,
not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 476]
YEAS—414
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberge
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Zeldin
NAYS—1
Massie
NOT VOTING—17
Abraham
Biggs
Bishop (GA)
Blunt Rochester
Brady
Clyburn
Gonzalez (TX)
Granger
Higgins (LA)
Jeffries
Lamborn
Lipinski
Marchant
Moulton
Simpson
Williams
Young
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:18 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.029 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5814 July 15, 2019
b 1909
So the resolution, as amended, was
agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SAUDI ARABIA HUMAN RIGHTS
AND ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2037) to encourage account-
ability for the murder of Washington
Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi, as
amended, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 405, nays 7,
not voting 20, as follows:
[Roll No. 477]
YEAS—405
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Zeldin
NAYS—7
Gaetz
Gohmert
Holding
LaMalfa
Massie
McClintock
Yoho
NOT VOTING—20
Abraham
Biggs
Bishop (GA)
Blunt Rochester
Brady
Clyburn
Davis, Rodney
Dunn
Gonzalez (TX)
Granger
Grijalva
Higgins (LA)
Jeffries
Lamborn
Lipinski
Marchant
Moulton
Simpson
Williams
Young
b 1918
Mr. GOHMERT changed his vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, if this
unanimous consent request cannot be
entertained, I urge the Speaker and the
Majority Leader to immediately sched-
ule the Born-Alive bill so we can stand
up and protect the sanctity of human
life, and I would ask all others to join
in in that request.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not recognized for debate.
f
STAND UP FOR HARDWORKING
AMERICANS
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 582, the Raise
the Wage Act. H.R. 582 is truly long
overdue.
Truly hardworking folks across this
country, most of whom are first in the
door and last to leave, will benefit from
this strong legislation. Low-wage earn-
ers, manufacturing workers, healthcare
workers, construction workers, and
educators will come closer to being
able to make ends meet.
Middle- and working-class real wages
have remained stagnant over the past
several decades, even as the corpora-
tions and shareholders they labor for
have seen soaring profits.
In short, the Federal minimum wage
has not increased since 2009. Hard-
working families have not been given a
fair deal and, thus, have an extremely
tough time trying to keep up with the
rising cost of living.
Madam Speaker, I will vote yes on
H.R. 582, the Raise the Wage Act, and I
urge my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle to join me in standing up for
hardworking American people.
f
RECOGNIZING REVEREND
CAROLYN CUBBEDGE
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:18 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.063 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5815
July 15, 2019
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Rev-
erend Carolyn Cubbedge on her retire-
ment from the ministry and Wesley
Monumental United Methodist Church.
Reverend Cubbedge has made a tre-
mendous impact throughout the First
Congressional District of Georgia as
Wesley’s senior adult pastor. One of her
most notable projects includes her
work with Morningstar Children &
Family Services in Brunswick, which
provides therapy to children who have
multiple diagnoses of intellectual dis-
abilities. But this project is only the
tip of the iceberg.
Through her work helping the most
vulnerable—organizing church events,
her dedication to the ministry, and her
breadth of knowledge of God’s word—
she has helped Wesley to increase its
congregation and engage those mem-
bers to make our community a better
place to live.
Reverend Cubbedge retired on June
30, and I am both thankful and proud
that we were able to have a woman like
her doing God’s work in the First Con-
gressional District of Georgia.
Enjoy your retirement, Reverend
Cubbedge.
f
FACES 4 AUTISM
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, 18
years ago, Isabelle Mosca’s son was di-
agnosed with autism spectrum dis-
order. At the time, she was struck by
how little information and support was
available for families affected by ASD,
so Isabelle began a support group for a
few parents to meet over coffee and
talk.
Eventually, Isabelle’s meeting grew
into a nonprofit organization called
FACES 4 Autism, which helps over 750
families with five active and expanding
support groups throughout South Jer-
sey.
In addition to these support groups,
Isabelle created a program called
Massi’s Mission, which focuses on
water safety and survival for those
with ASD.
Now that her son is close to 21 years
old, Isabelle is exploring employment
opportunities for him and all of the
FACES’ participants. They are aging
out of their schools.
She never stops thinking, planning,
and creating opportunities to make our
community of South Jersey be the best
that it can be.
Mr. Speaker, Isabelle’s community
thanks her every day for everything
she does. South Jersey thanks her
every day for all that she does. She is
the best.
f
HONORING CLAYTON EDWARD
NARVESON
(Mr. BURCHETT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BURCHETT. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Clayton Edward
Narveson, an American hero and World
War II combat veteran.
Mr. Narveson joined the United
States Marine Corps following the at-
tack on Pearl Harbor. He fought in the
Battle of Tarawa in November of 1943.
And during February and March of
1945, he served as a gunner on an 81 mm
mortar during the Battle of Iwo Jima,
one of the bloodiest battles in Marine
Corps history, and our country’s his-
tory.
After the war, Mr. Narveson attended
St. Paul College of Law and had a suc-
cessful career as an attorney.
For two decades, Mr. Narveson has
made presentations to students telling
some of the stories of his times in serv-
ice and the struggles he and his family
faced during the Great Depression.
Through these presentations, he re-
minds young folks of the importance of
serving your country and how blessed
we are to live in the United States of
America.
There are real heroes in this world,
and they aren’t music stars, famous
athletes, or Hollywood actors. Our
country’s heroes are the men and
women of our Armed Forces, like Mr.
Narveson, who served and sacrificed for
our freedom.
Mr. Speaker, it is my honor to honor
Clayton Narveson as the Tennessee
Second District’s July 2019 Veteran of
the Month and to thank him for his
service to our country, his dedication
to his work and family, and for his con-
tinued support of our community and
our great country.
f
HONORING DOROTHY JONES
(Ms. TLAIB asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to honor the memory of Dorothy
Jones, a long-time resident of Detroit’s
48217 community.
I first met Ms. Dorothy Jones in 2008.
She was very active in her local block
club. She was passionate about the
right to breath clean air and stood up
against corporate polluters like Mara-
thon Petroleum Refinery. Ms. Jones
was never a person to shy away from a
challenge, and she always accepted
nothing less than the best for her fam-
ily, friends, and her neighborhood.
I am honored to have known Ms.
Jones for more than 10 years. She
would take me to task on important
issues, which I always welcomed and
for which I was better for it. I am
grateful for her engagement on these
issues that affect the quality of life for
so many residents in the 13th Congres-
sional District. It is truly an honor to
have known her and served Ms. Jones.
We honor her memory and her sur-
viving family members.
b 1930
DON’T INCREASE MINIMUM WAGE
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, the lat-
est proposal offered by my Democrat
colleagues to raise the minimum wage
from $7.25 an hour to $15 an hour na-
tionally is going to be devastating to
small businesses and especially to jobs.
A 107 percent increase is not going to
create more jobs. It might sound nice
on the surface, but it will be very
harmful.
There is this myth that a large seg-
ment of Americans earn at or below
the minimum wage, but, in reality, it
is only 2.3 percent; and half of them are
below the age of 25 who need these
entry-level jobs to learn a skill, to
learn to show up every day, to be on
time, and to grow from there. Increas-
ing it to $15 an hour nationally would
cause small companies to pass on high-
er prices to consumers, likely driving
consumers away, and for a small busi-
ness’ little profit margin already, po-
tentially forcing them to close their
doors.
I visited a restaurant in my district
that had two locations, and they have
already closed one. They are afraid, as
California is already on the track at
$12 and higher, how much longer they
can keep their businesses open because
of the huge cost of labor as a percent-
age of their business.
So let’s get on the right track and do
the things that support job growth and
the success we have had the last couple
of years after the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act and not go down this path.
f
CONGRATULATING LEO GERARD
ON HIS RETIREMENT
(Mr. LEVIN of Michigan asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Mr. Speaker,
I rise today to congratulate a great
leader of workers throughout North
America and, indeed, the world, Leo
Gerard, who retired this afternoon as
the president of the United Steel-
workers.
Leo rose through the ranks and was a
dynamic leader of the steelworkers for
40 years, and he was president for the
last 18 years. He led on so many issues.
He was a fierce negotiator for his
members, but he was also a leader for
all workers. For example, he brought
the environmental movement and the
labor movement together to tackle
tough issues about keeping our water
and air clean for everyone and for fu-
ture generations, while protecting our
jobs.
But one thing I think stands out. I
want to pledge to Leo Gerard on his re-
tirement that we are not going to pass
a replacement NAFTA unless it honors
the workers of Mexico, Canada, and the
United States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:18 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.066 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5816 July 15, 2019
What a great champion for workers
in North America. I assure Leo that we
are going to carry on his work.
God bless him.
f
NATIONAL CENTER FOR DEFENSE
MANUFACTURING AND MACHIN-
ING SITE VISIT
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, earlier this month, I had
the privilege of returning to
Blairsville, Pennsylvania, and the Na-
tional Center for Defense Manufac-
turing and Machining site in my dis-
trict.
Founded in 2003, NCDMM is com-
mitted to driving innovation through-
out the defense manufacturing indus-
try. They are helping revitalize our Na-
tion’s manufacturing industry by im-
plementing solutions, cutting commer-
cial and defense customer costs, in-
creasing productivity, improving qual-
ity, decreasing lead times, and reduc-
ing waste. NCDMM works to leverage
the expertise of their team to deliver
innovative manufacturing solutions
that produce real results.
My recent visit highlighted their ef-
forts to create a 2-year curriculum,
partnering with local institutions to
train veterans for additive manufac-
turing placement following their serv-
ice. This project addresses two critical
issues: opportunities for veterans and
strategic workforce shortages.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the leader-
ship and the work of the dedicated staff
at the NCDMM site. I wish them all the
best as they continue to bring innova-
tion and efficiency to our Nation’s
manufacturing industries.
f
HONORING OKLAHOMA
ASTRONAUT JOHN HERRINGTON
(Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend her remarks.)
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor an-
other Oklahoma trailblazer in space.
Astronaut John Herrington is a re-
tired United States naval aviator and
former NASA astronaut. Born in
Wetumka, Oklahoma, Herrington made
history in 2002 as the first Native
American to fly in space.
A citizen of the Chickasaw Nation,
Herrington earned a bachelor’s of
science degree in applied mathematics
from the University of Colorado Colo-
rado Springs, a master’s of science de-
gree in aeronautical engineering from
the Naval Postgraduate School, and a
Ph.D. from the University of Idaho.
As a mission specialist on the STS–
113 Endeavour mission, it was the 11th
American assembly mission to the
International Space Station. Dr.
Herrington spent more than 330 hours
in space and conducted three space
walks, totaling nearly 20 hours.
Dr. Herrington then served as a cap-
sule communicator, supporting shuttle
and space station training and oper-
ations, and he was later chosen to be-
come the chief engineer for safety and
mission assurance at the Johnson
Space Center.
I am proud of Dr. Herrington’s
achievements and barriers broken for
Tribal citizens in space exploration.
f
HONORING WORLD WAR II
VETERAN RANDALL EDWARDS
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Mr. Randall Edwards, a
veteran of World War II, who this
month turns 102 years old.
Edwards enlisted in the U.S. Navy in
1935, at 18 years old, and served as a
first class radioman for the USS Cano-
pus in the Philippines. He then joined
Allied ground forces, where he and his
unit were captured and sent to a Japa-
nese prison camp.
He spent 3 years as a prisoner of war,
and despite being forced to work 7 days
a week in appalling conditions and be-
coming nearly deaf due to abuse, he
never allowed his spirit to be broken.
In fact, after the war, he reenlisted in
the Navy and was sent to Japan to
serve in the U.S. occupying force.
Edwards later became a national serv-
ice officer for the American Ex-Pris-
oners of War organization, helping
other veterans reintegrate.
Warrant Officer Edwards survived
some of the worst of World War II, and
he persevered through captivity and re-
turned to bring democracy to his cap-
tors. Mr. Edwards represents the great-
est of our Greatest Generation, and on
behalf of a grateful nation, I say thank
you.
f
COMING TO AMERICA
(Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, with respect to the remarks made
this weekend about the squad ‘‘going
back to where they came from,’’ it re-
minded me of some lyrics by Neil Dia-
mond.
Far,
We’ve been traveling far,
Without a home,
But not without a star.
Free,
Only want to be free,
We huddle close,
Hang on to a dream.
On the boats and on the planes,
They’re coming to America.
Never looking back again,
They’re coming to America.
And it ends with:
They’re coming to America.
They’re coming to America.
They’re coming to America.
They’re coming to America.
Today, today, today, today, today.
My country ‘tis of thee,
Today,
Sweet land of liberty,
Today,
Of thee I sing,
Today,
Of thee I sing,
Today.
That is the America that we know,
and we are all here contributing to
what makes America America, and I
thank the body for listening.
f
THANKING HOUSTON FOR OPENING
ITS DOORS
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, on
this past Saturday, Houstonians gath-
ered together at the Living Water
International Apostolic Ministries in
Houston with Pastor Stearns and about
10 other churches. I convened the press
conference in the warehouse of this
church filled with goods and necessities
to respond to the most objectionable
national order that I have ever heard
from any President of the United
States: to manipulate law enforcement
and calling for national predawn raids
across America.
Now, no one in America wants open
borders, and Democrats do not, but we
do believe in due process, the Constitu-
tion, and the justness of the phrase-
ology on the Statue of Liberty to bring
our forlorn and worn to this country.
We are the greatest experiment, and
people in my constituency were fright-
ened. I came home to say we must do
something about it.
And how powerful it was for the
churches in our community to say: We
will open our doors to those who are
frightened about the fact that they will
be separated from their children or
their children separated from them.
What a horrible image, internation-
ally; how the United Nations has con-
demned it.
And so on that day, we opened the
churches of Houston for those migrants
who were frightened by these predawn
raids. One even occurred today.
I finish my remarks by saying the
16th President of the United States
really said what America is all about:
‘‘We are not enemies, but friends. We
must not be enemies. Though passion
may have strained, it must not break
our bonds of affection. The mystic
chords of memory, stretching from
every battlefield, and patriot grave, to
every living heart and hearthstone, all
over this broad land, will yet swell the
chorus of the Union, when again
touched, as surely they will be, by the
better angels of our nature.’’
That is Abraham Lincoln. That is
who we are.
I thank Houston for opening its doors
for those who are in fear.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:18 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.068 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5817
July 15, 2019
REFLECTING ON PRIORITIES
FACING AMERICA
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
PAYNE). Under the Speaker’s an-
nounced policy of January 3, 2019, the
gentleman from Nevada (Mr.
HORSFORD) is recognized for 60 minutes
as the designee of the majority leader.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today with my colleague and coanchor
for the Congressional Black Caucus,
Delegate STACEY PLASKETT, on behalf
of the Congressional Black Caucus for
this Special Order hour where we can
reflect on the priorities facing the
American public.
This week, this body will be voting
on the topic of raising the minimum
wage and giving Americans a well-de-
served raise and the impact that that
would have not only on the workforce
at large but, specifically, for Black
workers and families across the United
States.
Why is this so important as we touch
on the issues of the day? According to
the National Low Income Housing Coa-
lition, there is no place in America
where a full-time worker making the
current minimum wage of $7.25 an hour
can afford a modest two-bedroom
apartment.
Additionally, many working people,
particularly working women and Black
workers, are still facing persistent and
even, in some cases, worsening wage
gaps since 2000. The wage gap between
Black and White workers has grown
significantly.
So for this hour, Mr. Speaker, we will
discuss the issues affecting American
workers and why it is imperative that
this House take up the WAGE Act that
we will be considering later this week.
b 1945
I am honored to have with us here
this evening several members of the
Congressional Black Caucus who will
share their thoughts, concerns, and pri-
orities for this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from Michigan (Mrs. LAW-
RENCE).
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to address the issue of stagnant
wages for African Americans and, as a
result, the lack of economic opportuni-
ties. The Federal current minimum
wage is $7.25, not enough to sustain an
individual’s necessary expenses, let
alone for those who are an entire
American family.
In fact, the purchasing power of the
current minimum wage has gradually
eroded over the past decade. Since this
minimum wage was raised to $7.25, its
purchasing power has declined by 17
percent due to inflation.
Mr. Speaker, this is a staggering
thought: A person working 40 hours a
week at the current Federal minimum
wage earns a gross income of $15,000 per
year before taxes. Even families work-
ing full-time earning the Federal min-
imum wage are below the Federal pov-
erty level.
This is why we need to pass the Raise
the Wage Act. Under H.R. 582, 1.3 mil-
lion Americans will be lifted out of
poverty. This includes 600,000 children
who will finally have a shot at a better
life simply because of raising the min-
imum wage.
The Raise the Wage Act helps women
and workers of color the most since
women are nearly two-thirds of the
American workforce who earn the Fed-
eral minimum wage or just above that.
In Michigan’s 14th District, up to 61,000
women and over 76,000 Black and His-
panic workers in my district alone will
receive a wage increase. This bill is
way overdue.
Mr. Speaker, let me reference a let-
ter from my colleague, the Honorable
EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON of Texas: ‘‘We
have seen a recent epidemic of the
working poor, hardworking Americans
who each day are forced to choose be-
tween food, shelter, clothing, or
healthcare for themselves and their
families. In the past 40 years, minimum
wage increases have not kept pace,’’
causing many families to struggle.
The Honorable EDDIE BERNICE JOHN-
SON says that the current minimum
wage in her home State of Texas ‘‘is
only $7.25 an hour and even lower for
workers in the service industry who in-
stead rely heavily on customer tips for
take-home pay. The African American
community, which makes up a signifi-
cant portion of the minimum wage
workforce, is disproportionately af-
fected by lower wages.
‘‘According to the Economic Policy
Institute, 38.1 percent of all Black
workers would receive higher pay as a
result of an increased wage, therefore
opening up new economic opportuni-
ties.
‘‘We must act quickly to ensure that
any American willing to work 40 hours
a week can afford basic necessities.’’
That is why, Representative EDDIE
BERNICE JOHNSON says, she is proud to
be a cosponsor of H.R. 582, the Raise
the Wage Act. The bill will lift millions
of Americans out of poverty by gradu-
ally increasing the minimum wage
over a period of 5 years to $15.
Mr. Speaker, I want to be on the
Record and join my colleague, Rep-
resentative EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON, to
say: ‘‘The growing racial wealth gap in
our country can no longer go unno-
ticed. We now have an opportunity to
take concrete steps to help close the
gap.’’
This bill is way overdue.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman from Michigan
for bringing forward her commitment
and leadership on these important
issues and sharing her support for the
Raise the Wage Act, which this body
will be considering later this week.
Just before we started this Special
Order hour, one of my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle came up and
talked about the negative impact of
raising the Federal minimum wage. It
is so interesting that CEOs for the 350
largest U.S. companies on average were
paid $18.9 million in 2017, which is a 17
percent increase from the previous
year. Meanwhile, wages for the average
U.S. worker grew by 0.2 percent during
that time.
How is it okay that CEO pay can go
up 17 percent, and the average CEO for
the 350 largest U.S. companies can, on
average, be paid $19 million, and we
can’t afford to give America a raise?
On average, controlling for age, gen-
der, and education, Black workers are
paid 16.2 percent less than White work-
ers. According to the Census Bureau—
which is why it is so important for peo-
ple to participate in the Census, so
that we have this vital data—in 2016,
the average household income for a
White family was $80,720. For a Black
family, that number sat at $38,555, less
than half of what an average White
family took home.
That affects every aspect of that
family’s life, from their ability to af-
ford housing to healthcare to being
able to put food on the table and put
gas in the car so that they can make it
to their work.
We believe that one job should be
enough and that people should be able
to have a livable wage to take care of
themselves and their families.
I urge my colleagues throughout this
body, particularly those on the other
side, that if they are going to come to
this floor this week and oppose giving
Americans a raise, then they have to
be able to explain why they support
CEO pay increasing more than 17 per-
cent in one given year while U.S. work-
er wages grew at less than 0.2 percent
during that same time.
Workers deserve a wage increase.
Their wages have been stagnant for far
too long. That is why we are encour-
aging this body to bring up the Raise
the Wage Act.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Pennsylvania (Mr. EVANS), who is
my good friend. He is a gentleman with
whom I have the honor of serving on
the Ways and Means Committee. The
Representative likes to talk about the
history of his great city, and I know he
is here to also talk about why the con-
stituents of that great city deserve a
wage increase.
Mr. EVANS. Mr. Speaker, I applaud
the gentleman and the coleader for
leading this event for the Congres-
sional Black Caucus under the leader-
ship of Chairwoman KAREN BASS. The
Congressional Black Caucus is the con-
science of this Congress.
I don’t know if you know, and I am
constantly reminding people, Mr.
Speaker, that the President, in August
2016, came to Philadelphia and said,
‘‘What the hell do you have to lose?’’
That is what he said.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to join my col-
leagues from the Congressional Black
Caucus in calling for an increase in the
Federal minimum wage. I am pleased
that the Democratic leadership plans
to put the Raise the Wage Act up for a
vote in the House.
A raise for these workers is long
overdue. Congress has not raised the
national minimum wage in 10 years.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:18 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.070 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5818 July 15, 2019
My home State has not raised its min-
imum wage for 13 years. Inflation has
increased the cost of living nearly 19
percent from 10 years ago. Food,
healthcare, and utilities all went up.
Let me repeat that. A raise for these
workers is long overdue. Congress has
not raised the national minimum wage
for 10 years. My home State of Penn-
sylvania has not raised its minimum
wage for 13 years. Inflation has raised
the cost of living nearly 19 percent
from 10 years ago. Food, healthcare,
and utilities all went up.
Members from both parties should be
able to agree that no one who works
full-time should live in poverty. I am
very focused on poverty because my
city of Philadelphia has a 26 percent
poverty rate.
Raising the minimum wage is one of
the best tools in the toolbox for lifting
Americans out of poverty. That in-
cludes 600,000 children who will be lift-
ed out of poverty by the Raise the
Wage Act.
It is important, Mr. Speaker, to un-
derstand that one of our colleagues,
Congresswoman BARBARA LEE, who
leads the effort around the reduction of
poverty, particularly child poverty,
when we talk about the issue, 600,000
children will be lifted out of poverty by
the Raise the Wage Act. How can my
colleagues say no to that?
We need to find some way to move
forward. We have an opportunity, and
that opportunity is the Raise the Wage
Act. Americans who are working the
hardest to grow our economy need to
share the rewards of that growth. Just
think, that raise in their pocket allows
them to spend money in the economy.
That is not something to take lightly.
When we talk about small busi-
nesses—and I am the vice chair of the
Small Business Committee—and we
talk about small businesses being the
backbone of our community, obviously,
they need customers. They need cus-
tomers who have money in their pock-
ets.
It is not just enough for that indi-
vidual, but it is enough for entre-
preneurs. It is enough for building busi-
nesses. It is enough for building com-
munities. It is enough for all of us to
recognize the importance and the sig-
nificance of raising the wage.
We need to not take that lightly. We
need to understand that, in some of our
communities, there is a growing in-
come inequality gap, and we need to
address that. The way to address it is
by fundamentally raising the wage.
Raising the wage gives people more of
an opportunity to participate in this
economy.
We know this economy tends to be
rigged for those who are at the top
against those at the bottom who are
trying to struggle and find a way.
When you talk about our not raising
the minimum wage in 10 years—and 13
years in Pennsylvania—I want anyone
who is listening or watching what is
taking place here this evening to know
that the Congressional Black Caucus,
clearly, as the chairperson always likes
to say—she always talks about hidden
figures. The hidden figures are that we
haven’t raised the wage in 10 years, and
in Pennsylvania, they haven’t raised it
in 13 years.
Americans who are working are
working harder. They are working
more than one job. They are working
two, three jobs. There is something
wrong with that. The CEOs have defi-
nitely been getting their raises.
Where is the raise for the people who
cook their food, make their beds, and
clean their offices? Where is the raise
for the people who cook their food,
make their beds, and clean their of-
fices?
Today, led by my two colleagues
from the great State of Nevada and the
great Virgin Islands who are leaders in
this effort, I am glad to join with them
to add my voice to raising the wage.
This is not an accident that the Con-
gressional Black Caucus will be in the
forefront because this is an issue that
means a great deal to an awful lot of
Americans and particularly African
Americans when we have a President of
the United States who comes and says:
What do you have to lose?
The fact of the matter is, when we
look at his administration, clearly, the
policies are not connecting to moving
the people, at least not moving the
people whom we are talking to and the
situations that we are seeing.
The bottom line on the minimum
wage is simple: Pay these people now.
Pay these people now and raise the
wage.
We can no longer joke about this. We
can no longer have it as political rhet-
oric. We must show action, and we
must show people that we are deter-
mined to raise the wage.
I thank my colleagues for giving me
the opportunity to add my voice to
both of yours for what we are attempt-
ing to do today. We need to keep doing
this every single day and not leave
here until this wage raises.
The bottom line of the minimum
wage is simple: Pay these people now
and raise the wage.
b 2000
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Pennsyl-
vania and again thank him for his dedi-
cation and commitment on behalf of
his constituents in Philadelphia, in
bringing their voice to this process.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous material on the sub-
ject of tonight’s Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Nevada?
There was no objection.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, we are
led by a dynamic chair of the Congres-
sional Black Caucus, the Representa-
tive from California, Congresswoman
KAREN BASS, and I had the honor of at-
tending one of her congressional field
hearings this week. The CBC is dedi-
cated on a number of policy platforms,
and this is among them.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from the U.S. Virgin Islands
(Ms. PLASKETT), my colleague, whom I
am coanchored with this evening.
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Nevada (Mr.
HORSFORD) for yielding and thank him
for the work he is doing on this issue
and so many issues that affect Amer-
ican families.
Sometimes here in Congress we can
be distracted by issues that come up on
a daily basis, but the gentleman from
Nevada has kept his mind focused on
the things that everyday Americans
are concerned with, that is, proper
wages, livable homes, good education,
affordable housing. I am appreciative
that we have kept our eyes on the
prize, kept our eyes focused on the pol-
icy and the things that move the nee-
dle on this.
I was so happy to hear just a few mo-
ments ago from the gentleman from
Philadelphia, Mr. EVANS, because, al-
though he talks quite a bit about
Philadelphia, there is one area he talks
about quite a bit, and that is sus-
taining the Black middle class, sus-
taining Black homeownership.
This minimum wage bill, Raise the
Wage Act of 2019, supports those kind
of initiatives. It gradually raises, as we
have said, the Federal minimum wage
from $7.25 to $15 over several years,
over the next 6 years, to lift millions of
workers out of poverty, even those who
are working, who are still the working-
class poor, stimulate local economies,
and restore the value of the minimum
wage. It gives 40 million Americans a
raise.
As we heard from the gentlewoman
from Michigan (Mrs. LAWRENCE), my
colleague and good friend, it helps
women and workers of color.
Today, more than 40 percent of Black
workers and one-third of Hispanic
workers will get a raise under this bill.
Women make up nearly two-thirds of
all minimum wage workers.
In areas like the Virgin Islands,
where many of the homes and percent-
ages of homes are run by single-person
households, those being predominantly
Black women, this is very important
that women are two-thirds of the min-
imum wage workers. For them to be
lifted out raises families.
One thing that I think this touches
on and is part of that hasn’t really
been expressed as yet is wealth dis-
parity.
The wealth, the measure of an indi-
vidual’s or a family’s financial net
worth, provides all sorts of opportuni-
ties for American families. Wealth
makes it easier for people to
seamlessly transition between jobs,
move to new neighborhoods, and re-
spond to emergency situations.
Unfortunately, wealth in this coun-
try is unequally distributed by race,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:18 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.072 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5819
July 15, 2019
particularly between White and Black
households. African American families
have a fraction of the wealth of White
families, leaving them more economi-
cally insecure and with far fewer op-
portunities for economic mobility.
Even after considering positive fac-
tors such as increased education levels,
African Americans still have less
wealth than Whites. Less wealth trans-
lates into fewer opportunities and is
compounded by lower income levels
and fewer chances to build wealth or
pass accumulated wealth down to fu-
ture generations.
This also is very symptomatic and
has a well-documented history of mort-
gage market discrimination. It means
that Blacks are significantly less like-
ly to be homeowners than Whites,
which means they have less access to
savings and tax benefits that come
with owning a home.
Persistent labor market discrimina-
tion and segregation also force Blacks
into fewer and less advantageous em-
ployment opportunities than their
White counterparts. Even when they
have homeownership, they have less
access and ability to be able to use
that homeownership.
In the Virgin Islands, surprisingly,
almost 60 percent of families of Black
people own their home, but they are
unable, and the banks are unwilling, to
allow them to leverage that wealth for
education, for second mortgages, to
start businesses. The scrutiny is high.
When we are talking about wages, in
the Virgin Islands, we make 75 percent
of what is the national average. The
average for a Virgin Islands family is
$37,254; whereas, the estimated na-
tional average is $50,221. And 13.5 per-
cent of U.S. Virgin Islanders have fam-
ily income levels below $10,000 a year—
for a family. That is horrendous.
This bill, however, and passage of
this bill would mean lots of wealth and
lots of opportunities for Black fami-
lies, African Americans, the working
poor, White poor families, Hispanic
families.
African Americans own approxi-
mately one-tenth of the wealth of
White Americans. In 2016, the median
wealth for nonretired Black households
25 years old and older was less than
one-tenth that of similarly situated
White households. Those are White
households, making the same and hav-
ing the same access as Black families,
which are making one-tenth that of
similarly situated White households.
The Black-White wealth gap has still
not recovered from the Great Reces-
sion. In 2007, immediately after the
Great Recession, the median wealth of
Blacks was nearly 14 percent of Whites.
Although Black wealth increased at a
faster rate than White wealth in 2016,
Blacks still owned less than 10 percent
of White’s wealth at the median.
Black households have fewer and are
in greater need of personal savings
than their White counterparts. For a
variety of reasons, Blacks are more
likely to experience negative income
shocks but are less likely to have ac-
cess to emergency savings. As a con-
sequence, Blacks are more likely to
fall behind on their bills and go into
debt during times of emergency.
The systematic challenges in nar-
rowing the wealth gap for African
Americans with Whites persists. The
wealth gap persists regardless of a
household’s education, marital status,
age, or income.
This is something that we are fight-
ing for. We are grateful for this legisla-
tion that is going to make a difference
in African American lives.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
for bringing this important matter to
the floor for us to discuss here this
evening, and it is my plea for my col-
leagues to pass this legislation, for it
to go to the Senate so that it can make
a tremendous difference in so many
Americans’ lives. Raising the income
level of the less fortunate assists all
Americans in raising the tide of Ameri-
cans’ ability to excel.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman from the U.S.
Virgin Islands, and I appreciate, again,
her work as a coanchor tonight and
bringing not only the increasing issues
of wages for American workers, but
tying and connecting the point around
housing and the ability to really afford
to live.
As we have heard time and time
again from our constituents, people are
falling behind, and it is because they
have seen stagnant wages for far too
long. While the other side is giving cor-
porate tax cuts to the wealthiest, 83
percent of the benefit of their $1.7 tril-
lion tax going to benefit only the top 1
percent, it has done nothing to help the
working poor and those who actually
help build a strong economy.
For the past 40 years, Congress has
failed to increase the minimum wage
to keep up with inflation, making it
the longest period of time in history
without an increase. Today’s minimum
wage workers have less buying power
than minimum wage workers had in
the 1960s. In the past 40 years, the Fed-
eral minimum wage, stuck at $7.25
since 2009, has lost 30 percent of its
value.
What does this mean? It means the
minimum wage is worth less today
than it was in 1960. The same wage
can’t buy you as much due to inflation
and wages not being corrected to
match for inflation.
The person who has been leading the
charge as the chairman of the Edu-
cation and Labor Committee, the per-
son who has brought so much perspec-
tive on so many issues, from criminal
justice reform to voting rights and now
is making sure that this body considers
the Raise the Wage Act this week, is
none other than Congressman BOBBY
SCOTT.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from the great State of Virginia (Mr.
SCOTT).
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
we are considering the Raise the Wage
Act later this week. That proposal will
gradually increase the Federal min-
imum wage to $15 an hour by 2025, and
after that, adjust for inflation.
I thank the gentleman from Nevada
(Mr. HORSFORD) for convening this Spe-
cial Order to discuss the minimum
wage on behalf of the Congressional
Black Caucus, because this gives us an
opportunity to explore the historic and
continuing intersection between race
and the Federal minimum wage.
When the Federal minimum wage
was established under the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938, it purposely ex-
cluded many African American work-
ers. Agriculture and most service
workers, who are predominantly Afri-
can American, were exempted from
labor law protections.
From 1930 to 1940, the share of South-
ern Blacks who worked in agriculture,
in domestic service was over 40 per-
cent. At the same time, the practice of
tipping, which had originally enabled
American employers to avoid paying
wages to newly freed Black workers,
was in effect.
And the law also treated disabled
workers as inferior and permanently
codified some forms of labor as lower
than minimum wage work. Those ex-
clusions lowered labor standards in the
South by excluding a large share of its
workforce and denied African Amer-
ican workers access to basic labor pro-
tections.
But in 1966, Congress finally amended
the Fair Labor Standards Act to ex-
pand coverage to agriculture, res-
taurants, nursing homes, and other
service workers. The benefits of that
act were particularly strong for Black
workers. Nearly one-third of Black
workers gained protection under the
Fair Labor Standards Act compared to
only 18 percent of Whites.
The size of that minimum wage in-
crease in finally protecting a larger
share of African Americans closed 20
percent of the Black-White earnings
and income gap. Estimates based on
the differential impact of the 1966
amendments by industry and wage lev-
els within industry give a clear indica-
tion of how important the minimum
wage protection was, because it estab-
lished a Federal minimum wage.
We know how effective it was because
Black workers in industries that were
not protected by the Fair Labor Stand-
ards Act were paid significantly lower
than the minimum wage. After in-
creases in minimum wage increased
earnings by an average of 34 percent,
studies found modest to positive job
gains as a direct result of the increase
in the minimum wage in the industries
that came under the Fair Labor Stand-
ards Act protection.
The poverty rate for African Amer-
ican children fell from a staggering 65
percent in 1965 to 39 percent in 1969
after the minimum wage expansion in
coverage and increase to its highest
value in real terms. That caused a
rapid decline in childhood poverty
amongst African Americans. Fifty
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:18 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.073 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5820 July 15, 2019
years later, the Raise the Wage Act
would have a similarly strong impact
on African American workers.
This past June marked the longest
time in the history of the minimum
wage where there was no increase in
the minimum wage. Just about half of
African American workers live in the
21 States where the minimum wage has
not been increased over $7.25 an hour.
Most of the States, in fact, have not
waited for the Federal Government;
they went ahead and increased it. But
half of the African American popu-
lation lives in the 21 States stuck at
$7.25.
To make matters worse, factoring for
inflation, these minimum wage work-
ers have actually suffered a cut over
the last decade. So, as a result, mil-
lions of Americans who are working
full-time still find themselves in pov-
erty. In fact, one recent study showed
that there is no city or county in
America where a minimum wage work-
er working 40 hours a week can afford
a modest two-bedroom apartment.
b 2015
So, for nearly a third of Black work-
ers, this is important legislation. One-
third of Black workers would get a
raise if Congress passes the Raise the
Wage Act.
We have a responsibility and an op-
portunity to restore the value of the
minimum wage, lift millions of hard-
working people out of poverty, and
boost the wages for African American
families across the country.
There is nothing more that we can do
to actually reduce the wage and in-
come gaps, the wealth gaps, that we
have in America today than raise the
minimum wage.
So, this week, we must pass the
Raise the Wage Act and restore Presi-
dent Roosevelt’s promise of a fair day’s
pay for a fair day’s work.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the chairman from the Edu-
cation and Labor Committee. It makes
a big difference when he has the gavel
and the priorities that he has set as the
chairman of that committee and the
fact that, as we have done from the be-
ginning of this Congress, the For the
People Agenda has been focused on
making a difference in the lives of the
American people that we represent.
The gentleman just pointed out that
two-thirds of the minimum wage work-
ers in this country are women and that
two-fifths—in fact, 38 percent of Afri-
can Americans and one-third, 33 per-
cent of Latinos—would get a raise
when we pass the legislation and the
Federal minimum wage is increased to
$15 an hour.
It would also boost the economy. A 10
percent increase in the minimum wage
would increase sales by around $2 bil-
lion each year.
Now, I want to just take on a couple
of the myths that have been out there
with this administration and my Re-
publican colleagues who have opposed
the efforts of the House Democrats to
bring forward this wage increase.
One of the myths out there is around
the Black unemployment rate in this
country. We hear often the President
say that, among certain racial groups,
particularly African Americans, the
unemployment rate is at an all-time
low.
And while it is, in fact, true that the
unemployment rate is down and it has
been down and has been steadily falling
since 2011, well before Trump was
sworn into office, that rate of decline
has not gained momentum since.
In fact, even at an annual rate of 6.6
percent, the Black unemployment rate
is still more than double the White un-
employment rate, which is at 3.2 per-
cent.
What this says is that the Black un-
employment rate has been about dou-
ble the White unemployment rate for
more than four decades, making this
relationship more historically signifi-
cant than any single unemployment
rate.
So, Mr. President, if you want to
take credit for the low unemployment
rate among African Americans, then
you need to be held accountable for
keeping the rate down and to propose a
plan to close the persistent 2-to-1 ra-
cial disparity that has existed for more
than 40 years.
Another issue that I want to take on
is the fact of the amount of jobs that
have been created since this adminis-
tration has taken over. We know that
many of the jobs that have been cre-
ated are, in fact, low-wage, low-paying
jobs. Many of the jobs are in the gig
economy, and those individuals are not
getting paid the same amount as tradi-
tional workers.
We know that many employers are
paying workers for less than full-time
work, which means that they still can-
not provide for their families, that
they are not being afforded healthcare,
and, in fact, the government is sub-
sidizing many of these corporations—
the same corporations that give their
CEOs 17 percent pay increases but then
want to tell the workers: ‘‘You can’t
have a raise.’’
And these are the myths that the
other side wants to, again, put out
there to distract from the House Demo-
crats and our agenda in giving Ameri-
cans a raise.
Now, I want to just touch on one spe-
cific point from my home State in Ne-
vada. Recently, our Governor, Gov-
ernor Steve Sisolak, the first Demo-
cratic Governor to be elected in Nevada
in 20 years, signed into law a $12 min-
imum wage increase, following 10 years
of wage stagnation for working-class
families in Nevada.
In fact, the last time we raised the
minimum wage in Nevada was when I
was serving in the State Senate. So,
elections do have consequences.
But, with the help of our legislative
leaders, Speaker Jason Frierson and
Senate Majority Leader Nicole
Cannizzaro, the Nevada legislature in-
creased the Nevada minimum wage to
$12. But that raise won’t go into effect
until 2020, and, for now, one in five
workers in Nevada are making under
$12 an hour, less than $24,000 a year—
$24,000 a year.
What is a family supposed to do? How
are they supposed to make ends meet
on $24,000 per year?
Mr. Speaker, $12 for Nevadans is a
step in the right direction, but we need
to be working to provide equitable
wages for all Nevadans.
The Raise the Wage Act would work
toward a $15 minimum wage by 2024, as
the chairman from the Education and
Labor Committee indicated.
A pay increase will benefit 127,000
workers in my district alone. Specifi-
cally, it will raise wages for 18,800
Black workers, more than any other
congressional district in Nevada.
So, the Raise the Wage Act is an im-
portant measure. It would give up to 27
million workers a raise, lifting 1.3 mil-
lion Americans out of poverty and
boosting economic growth by putting
money into the pockets of workers,
who will spend that money in growing
the economy, not like the corporate
tax cut that was given to big corpora-
tions where they simply just bought up
more shares of their own stock.
They didn’t do anything to hire more
workers or to help stimulate the econ-
omy. They just made themselves more
rich.
All Americans who work hard de-
serve to be able to afford a middle-class
life and opportunities to get ahead.
I believe that one job should be
enough and that it is time that we set
our children up for success by making
sure that working families have the
wages that they need to provide for
themselves and their family.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentle-
woman from the Virgin Islands (Ms.
PLASKETT).
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for that discus-
sion about what is happening in Ne-
vada and raising the minimum wage,
what that is going to do in the gentle-
man’s State. Kudos to the Governor to
take that bold leap.
There is concern about what happens
with small businesses, and I know that
the chairman of the Committee on
Education and Labor has been thinking
about that as well, that this bill does
take this into account, that there are
small businesses that this may be dif-
ficult for.
But we have to understand what the
entire objective is of this bill. I know
that there are amendments by other
good Democrats to look at the Govern-
ment Accountability Office to deter-
mine employment impacts.
That is much more helpful than what
was done with the tax bill that the Re-
publicans passed. They aren’t trying to
see what the impact has been of their
legislation. They didn’t ask for a
lookback to see is this, in fact, stimu-
lating the economy, because the objec-
tive was not to stimulate the economy.
The objective was to give the 1 per-
cent—those corporate CEOs and oth-
ers—additional money. It was not to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:18 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.075 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5821
July 15, 2019
put money into the economy. Because,
if it was, then we would be looking at
it right now: What is the impact on
America?
That was not put into that tax bill.
But the Democrats are willing to do
that. The Democrats want to make
sure that this legislation is doing what
it is meant to do; that is, to be for the
people, for the larger American people,
by supporting that.
When I was talking earlier about the
wealth gap and income, income and
employment are obstacles to the
wealth gap. The income gap has actu-
ally worsened over time.
According to a 2016 Economic Policy
Institute report, the income gap be-
tween Blacks and Whites has grown
since the 1970s, not lessened. In 1979, for
example, Black men earned 22 percent
less than White men. In 2015, Black
men earned 31 percent less.
The report’s authors note that, in
1979, Black women’s wages reached
near parity with White women’s wages,
but that by 2015 the gap had risen to 19
percent.
We are not getting better. The equal-
ity gap is not narrowing. We need to
face the statistics. And Democrats are
willing to do something about that.
The report also found that the gap
persists across women’s educational
levels and worsens for those with high-
er levels of educational attainment.
The gap at a higher level of edu-
cation for White women and Black
women with similar education is worse
than it is for those lower.
In 1980, college-educated Black
women with more work experience ac-
tually earned slightly higher wages
than college-educated White women
with the same experience. By 2014,
however, the gap had widened to 10 per-
cent in White women’s favor. That is a
reversal.
Similarly, while the gap between col-
lege-educated Black and White men in
1980 was slightly less than 10 percent, it
rose to 20 percent by 2014.
In 2017, researchers from the Federal
Reserve Bank of San Francisco simi-
larly concluded that the Black-White
earning gap is growing, and that the
growth can largely be attributable to
so-called immeasurable factors.
What are some of those factors?
Those factors that play a role in the
Black-White income and employment
gap include employment discrimina-
tion, weak enforcement of anti-
discrimination laws, and racial dif-
ferences in unobserved skill levels, as
opposed to measurable factors such as
educational attainment or work experi-
ence.
I am grateful that we have this time
this evening to talk about this, to let
the American people see the truth—not
a tweet, not what is happening on the
news on a regular basis, but the things
that everyday Americans care about:
wages; minimum wage; having quality
of life; and, as my colleague from Ne-
vada said, the ability to have one job
to sustain your family, not having to
juggle two and three jobs, leaving your
children at home and not being able to
be an important and positive force in
your children’s lives because you have
to work.
We are concerned as well about what
is happening to our young children who
don’t have that supervision in the
evening.
Those are some of the issues where
we have concern in Black commu-
nities, not because parents aren’t
working and they are not there for
their children because they are shift-
less, they are lazy, et cetera, the things
that you hear. It is because parents
have two jobs. They are trying to hold
it together.
Single households, even those house-
holds that have both parents working,
they have to have two jobs to make
ends meet.
This is a means to get people to be
able not only to get out of poverty but
to support their families, to support
their communities, to create wealth, to
have homeownership, which allows ac-
cess to so many other things such as
education and so many things that are,
in fact, the American Dream.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, the
gentlewoman was talking about the
impact beyond just family incomes,
which is important. And we want to
give all Americans a raise.
While the priorities on the other side
were about giving corporations and bil-
lionaires more wealth creation, we are
laser-focused on putting more money
in the pockets of hardworking Ameri-
cans.
But the question I have is around the
recent research with States that, fol-
lowing an increase in wages, we actu-
ally can see the rates of suicides fall,
consumer spending rise, and a more
productive workforce.
There is no place in America where a
full-time worker making $7.25 an hour
can support their entire family, let
alone afford basic needs.
There is no place in America where a
full-time worker making the current
$7.25 an hour can support their entire
family.
And, as I said, the productivity
piece—which, again, my colleagues are
always talking about the need to make
America more competitive and more
productive. Well, in one study, re-
searchers tracked 10,000 workers at
about 200 department stores and found
that a dollar increase in the minimum
wage led a typical employee to sell
about 5.4 percent more per hour.
So, if we give workers the wage that
they are deserving of, they will put
that extra money to work for the
American economy, unlike giving more
tax breaks to the wealthy. For a work-
er earning the minimum wage, the in-
crease could be almost 20 percent.
b 2030
Now, again, I have underscored re-
peatedly the impacts to the economy,
and we will take on that debate later
this week when this bill comes to the
floor.
But the point I just wanted to ask
my colleague about is that human im-
pact. You know, this is more than just
numbers. This is the two-thirds of
American workers who are women who
are increasingly the head of their
household.
So can the gentlewoman relate to
that impact and the constituents that
she serves and the stories that she has
heard about the anxiety that they go
through every day and not being able
to make ends meet?
Ms. PLASKETT. Every day, every
week, and definitely every month, they
are trying to juggle which bill they are
going to pay, and which bill they are
not going to pay. Are they going to be
able to keep the lights on? Are they
going to be able to pay the rent?
In the Virgin Islands, public school
students wear uniforms. Are they going
to be able to scrounge up money at the
end of the summer to be able to provide
clothing for their children to be able to
go to school?
Those are the things that people are
concerned with working minimum
wage jobs, and working them hard; and
then maybe at night having a night-
time job somewhere else; and making
sure that maybe one of the older chil-
dren is watching the younger ones;
making sure that they are asleep while
they are away at that job; and praying
that nothing happens while they are
there, not because they are negligent
parents, but that they care enough to
be trying to put food on the table.
Those are the stories that I am sure
you hear in your district; that I know
I hear in the Virgin Islands; and that I
am sure all of our colleagues, if they
are willing to listen to the people that
are on the ground, the people that have
put them here in Congress, are facing
every day.
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
know the affected workers that I hear
from in my district, they want this
raise. This raise would provide on the
order of about $3,000 a year. That is
enough money to make a tremendous
difference in the life of a preschool
teacher, a bank teller. We have got
fast-food workers who, today, struggle
to get by on around $20,000 a year.
A $15 minimum wage by 2024 would
generate $144 billion in higher wages
for workers and would also benefit the
communities in which they live.
So while corporate profits, as a share
of our national income, are at an all-
time high, wages are at a 65-year low.
So if we are not going to give workers
a raise now, when are we going to give
it to them? They have been waiting for
far too long.
I want to commend the leadership of
our Speaker, of course; the chair-
woman of the Congressional Black Cau-
cus, the chairman of the Education and
Labor Committee, it is because of their
leadership, the chairman of the House
Democratic Caucus, HAKEEM JEFFRIES,
and others, that this is part of the For
the People Agenda.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:39 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.077 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5822 July 15, 2019
This is why we are laser-focused. And
we are laser-focused on a lot of prior-
ities. We want to give workers a raise.
We also want to address housing afford-
ability. We want to address the issues
around healthcare costs and the out-of-
pocket expenses that so many Ameri-
cans are dealing with.
We know that more entrepreneurs
want to start a new business, and we
want to give them the tools and the re-
sources necessary for them to do so.
We want to repeal some of the unnec-
essary tax burdens on Americans, like
the Cadillac tax on healthcare, which I
know this body is also going to be con-
sidering.
So these are among the priorities of
the House Democratic Caucus in the
For the People Agenda that we are
raising up and reminding people that
we need to deal with this congressional
session.
So, just to highlight, again, the Raise
the Wage Act of 2019 would gradually
raise the Federal minimum wage to $15
an hour by 2024; and here is how it
would work.
As the chairman has indicated, it
would raise the Federal minimum wage
to $8.55 this year and increase it over
the next 5 years until it reaches $15 an
hour in 2024. After 2024, it would adjust
the minimum wage each year to keep
pace with growth in the typical work-
er’s wages, something that we have not
done for some time.
It would phase out the outdated sub-
minimum wage for tip workers, which
has been frozen at a meager $2.13 since
1991. And it would sunset the sub-min-
imum wages for workers with disabil-
ities employed in sheltered workshops,
and for workers under age 20.
This is a commonsense measure,
something that American workers and
our constituents have been demanding.
In fact, 1 in 9 U.S. workers are paid
wages that leave them in poverty
today, even when working full-time
and year round. And so that is why this
bill is so important, the Raise the
Wage Act.
I am looking forward to working
with my colleagues to bring this meas-
ure to the floor later this week, and to
debate with my colleagues on the other
side where they stand and whether
they will join with the House Demo-
crats to pass this legislation over to
the Senate so that they can also take
action.
I also want to just touch on a point
that my colleague was talking about,
dealing with home ownership in the
Black community. Today, The Wall
Street Journal released a report that
Black home ownership is at an all-time
low. It has fallen 8.6 percentage points
since its peak in 2004, hitting an all-
time low in the first quarter of this
year.
Homes and neighborhoods with a con-
centration of Black homeowners, on
average, are worth less than 6 percent
than they were in 2006. And in the sec-
ond quarter of 2018, Black home owner-
ship stood at 41.6 percent, down more
than a full half percent from the first
quarter rate.
Nationally, the Black home owner-
ship rate is only 41.6 percent, virtually
unchanged from 50 years ago when the
Federal Fair Housing Act banned racial
discrimination in housing. The na-
tional White home ownership rate, by
comparison, is 71 percent.
So these are really dire statistics
that I wanted to bring to the attention
of this body. I know that the chair-
woman of the Financial Services Com-
mittee, MAXINE WATERS, and her Sub-
committee on Housing are working to
tackle this problem as well.
But it is time that we address the 30
percent point gap in home ownership
between Black and White Americans,
which is at its highest point in the new
millennium.
Why is this so important?
It is, because, for Black Americans,
so much of our wealth is accumulated
in the equity of home ownership. And
again, this is central to the issue of
giving workers a raise because they
need that raise in order to afford the
higher cost of housing, the higher cost
of healthcare, the higher cost of food,
the higher cost of gas. Everything is
going up but their pay check, and that
is what I hear from my constituents,
from those who are earning a minimum
wage.
Under the Raise the Wage Act, it
would increase by almost 20 percent.
So I am looking forward to, again, de-
bating my colleagues on this important
issue when we come to the floor later
this week.
As we have talked about here to-
night, the Congressional Black Caucus
is laser-focused on making sure that
Americans get a raise. We know that
giving Americans a raise would give up
to 27 million workers the benefit of in-
creased take-home pay. It would lift 1.3
Americans out of poverty. And it would
boost our economic growth by putting
money where it belongs, in the pockets
of workers who will spend that money
in the economy.
Unlike what was done with the cor-
porate tax cuts that were given, where
83 percent of the benefit of the $1.7 tril-
lion tax cut went to benefit just the
top 1 percent, we are focused on help-
ing everyday Americans get the money
they need in their pocket.
Now, I asked a question at the begin-
ning of tonight’s Special Order hour
dealing with the 350 CEOs from the
largest U.S. companies who earned an
average pay, in 2017, of $1.89 million.
That is a lot of money.
I have no beef with CEOs getting a
fair pay, but that pay increase amount-
ed to a 17 percent increase from the
previous year. And just before we start-
ed the Special Order hour, one of my
colleagues came to the floor and said
that increasing the Federal minimum
wage would be devastating to our econ-
omy.
Well, what does he say about the
CEOs who are getting record pay and
record bonuses, and the fact that all of
the corporate tax cuts that they pro-
vided went to just buying more stocks
in those companies?
Meanwhile, the wages for the average
U.S. worker grew at .2 percent during
that same time. This is a fundamental
question that I honestly would like my
colleagues to be able to answer, and I
will seek them out during this week,
because I want them to join with us to
pass this bill.
This really should not be a partisan
issue. Giving Americans a raise is
something that we all should agree on
benefits all of our workers. My col-
leagues on the other side have low-
wage, low-paid workers in their district
just like I have low-wage, low-paid
workers in my district.
The Raise the Wage Act of 2019,
which proposes raising the Federal
minimum wage in six steps to $15 an
hour by 2024, will result in a pay in-
crease for 38.1 percent of all Black
workers and 23.2 percent of all White
workers.
This disproportional effect on Black
workers comes not just because they
are more often employed in jobs that
currently pay less, as we have dis-
cussed tonight, than the proposed min-
imum wage, but also because they are
less likely to work in States or local-
ities that have passed a State min-
imum wage that is higher than the
Federal minimum wage.
So that is why it is time for Federal
policy to set the standard so, regard-
less, of where you live, you can earn a
decent, livable wage to provide for
yourself and your family.
We believe that one job should be
enough. It should be enough to provide
for you and your family. It should be
enough to put a roof over your head. It
should be enough to make sure that
you can pay for the copays and the pre-
scription drugs that you need in order
to stay well.
It should be enough so that we can
address food insecurity in this country;
and it should be enough so that your
children can be set up for success in
their future.
I encourage each and every one of my
colleagues this week to study this bill;
to think about the constituents back
home in their district; and to ask
themselves, what were we sent here to
do; to help the well-off and the well-
connected, or to give voice to those
who deserve to be heard in this body?
I am honored to be a Representative
from Nevada’s Fourth Congressional
District; and I know my district is not
exactly the same as every other dis-
trict, but I have rural parts and I have
urban parts of my district, covering
52,000 square miles.
The commonality in my district is
that there are struggling people
throughout every corner of my district.
And so when I vote this week in favor
of giving workers a raise, I will be vot-
ing to give a raise to every single
worker throughout Nevada’s Fourth,
and throughout this great country.
I thank my colleague, the coanchor,
Congresswoman STACEY PLASKETT, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:18 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.079 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5823
July 15, 2019
chairman of the House Education and
Labor Committee, Mr. SCOTT, and each
and every one of my colleagues who
have spoken here tonight.
I thank the Speaker for giving us
this hour to bring about the issues that
are important.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to address the issue of stagnant wages
for African Americans and, as a result, the
lack of economic opportunities.
We have seen a recent epidemic of the
working poor—hardworking Americans who
each day are forced to choose between food,
shelter, clothing or health care for themselves
and their families. In the past 40 years, min-
imum wage increases have not kept pace with
inflation, causing millions of families to strug-
gle with stagnant wages while the cost of
goods and services continue to rise. The cur-
rent minimum wage in my home state of
Texas is only $7.25 an hour, and even lower
for workers in the service industry, who in-
stead rely heavily on customer tips for take-
home pay.
The African American community, which
makes up a significant portion of the min-
imum-wage workforce, is disproportionately af-
fected by lower wages. According to the Eco-
nomic Policy Institute, 38.1% of all black work-
ers would receive higher pay as a result of an
increased wage, therefore opening up new
economic opportunities.
We must act quickly to ensure that any
American willing to work 40 hours a week can
afford basic necessities, that is why I am
proud to cosponsor H.R. 582, the Raise the
Wage Act. This bill would lift millions of Ameri-
cans out of poverty by gradually increasing the
minimum wage over a period of five years to
$15.
Mr. Speaker, the growing racial wealth gap
in our country can no longer go unnoticed. We
now have an opportunity to take concrete
steps to help close the gap.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 8 o’clock and 44 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 2022
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. MORELLE) at 10 o’clock
and 22 minutes p.m.
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 3494, DAMON PAUL NELSON
AND MATTHEW YOUNG POLLARD
INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION
ACT FOR FISCAL YEARS 2018,
2019, AND 2020; RELATING TO THE
CONSIDERATION OF HOUSE RE-
PORT 116–125 AND AN ACCOM-
PANYING RESOLUTION; RELAT-
ING TO THE CONSIDERATION OF
MEASURES DISAPPROVING OF
SALES, EXPORTS, OR APPROV-
ALS PURSUANT TO THE ARMS
EXPORT CONTROL ACT; AND
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.RES. 489, CONDEMNING
PRESIDENT TRUMP’S RACIST
COMMENTS DIRECTED AT MEM-
BERS OF CONGRESS
Mr. RASKIN, from the Committee on
Rules, submitted a privileged report
(Rept. No. 116–154) on the resolution (H.
Res. 491) providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 3494) to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for intel-
ligence and intelligence-related activi-
ties of the United States Government,
the Community Management Account,
and the Central Intelligence Agency
Retirement and Disability System, and
for other purposes; relating to the con-
sideration of House Report 116–125 and
an accompanying resolution; relating
to the consideration of measures dis-
approving of sales, exports, or approv-
als pursuant to the Arms Export Con-
trol Act; and providing for consider-
ation of the resolution (H. Res. 489)
condemning President Trump’s racist
comments directed at Members of Con-
gress, which was referred to the House
Calendar and ordered to be printed.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 582, RAISE THE WAGE ACT
Mr. RASKIN, from the Committee on
Rules, submitted a privileged report
(Rept. No. 116–155) on the resolution (H.
Res. 492) providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 582) to provide for in-
creases in the Federal minimum wage,
and for other purposes, which was re-
ferred to the House Calendar and or-
dered to be printed.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia (at the request
of Mr. HOYER) for today.
Mr. JEFFRIES (at the request of Mr.
HOYER) for today on account of family
commitment.
EXPENDITURES BY THE OFFICE
OF GENERAL COUNSEL UNDER
HOUSE RESOLUTION 6, 116TH
CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON HOUSE ADMINISTRATION,
Washington, DC, July 15, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to section
302(c) of House Resolution 6 (116th Congress)
I hereby submit the attached statement
‘‘setting forth the aggregate amounts ex-
pended by the Office of General Counsel on
outside counsel and other experts pursuant
to this title on a quarterly basis’’ for the
quarter beginning on April 1, 2019 and ending
on June 30, 2019, for publication in the Con-
gressional Record.
Sincerely,
ZOE LOFGREN,
Chairperson.
Attachment.
AGGREGATE AMOUNT EXPENDED ON OUTSIDE COUNSEL
OR OTHER EXPERTS—H. RES. 6
January 1–March 31, 2019 ........................................................... $0.00
April 1–June 30, 2019 ................................................................... 0.00
Total ...................................................................................... 0.00
f
BILLS PRESENTED TO THE
PRESIDENT
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported that on July 15, 2019,
she presented to the President of the
United States, for his approval, the fol-
lowing bill:
H.R. 866. To provide a lactation room in
public buildings.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 10 o’clock and 24 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until Tuesday, July
16, 2019, at 10 a.m. for morning-hour de-
bate.
f
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 526, the
Cambodia Democracy Act, as amended,
would have no significant effect on di-
rect spending or revenues, and there-
fore, the budgetary effects of such bill
are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 2037, the
Saudi Arabia Human Rights and Ac-
countability Act of 2019, as amended,
would have no significant effect on di-
rect spending or revenues, and there-
fore, the budgetary effects of such bill
are estimated as zero.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:18 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY7.080 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5824 July 15, 2019
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 2615, the
United States-Northern Triangle En-
hancement Engagement Act, as amend-
ed, would have no significant effect on
direct spending or revenues, and there-
fore, the budgetary effects of such bill
are estimated as zero.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
1630. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Approval and Promulgation
of State Implementation Plans; Idaho; Re-
gional Haze Progress Report [EPA-R10-OAR-
2017-0571; FRL-9996-57-Region 10] received
July 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1631. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Approval of the Redesigna-
tion Request for the Washington, DC-MD-VA
2008 8-Hour Ozone National Ambient Air
Quality Standard Nonattainment Area
[EPA-R03-OAR-2018-0387; FRL-9996-72-Region
3] received July 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1632. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Outer Continental Shelf Air
Regulations; Consistency Update for Cali-
fornia [EPA-R09-OAR-2018-0366; FRL-9994-98-
Region 9] received July 10, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
1633. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Approval and Promulgation
of Air Quality Implementation Plans; Mary-
land; Basic Inspection and Maintenance Pro-
gram Certification State Implementation
Plan for the Baltimore Nonattainment Area
Under the 2008 Ozone National Ambient Air
Quality Standard [EPA-R03-OAR-2018-0397;
FRL-9996-28-Region 3] received July 10, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
1634. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Texas;
Revisions to Public Notice for Air Quality
Permit Applications [EPA-R06-OAR-2018-
0555; FRL-9995-52-Region 6] received July 10,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
1635. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; NC;
Emission Control Standards, Open Burning,
and Miscellaneous Revisions [EPA-R04-OAR-
2017-0422; FRL-9996-43-Region 4] received July
10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
1636. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Ari-
zona; Regional Haze Progress Report [EPA-
R09-OAR-2018-0761; FRL-9996-38-Region 9] re-
ceived July 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1637. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Outer Continental Shelf Air
Regulations; Consistency Update for Mary-
land [EPA-R03-OAR-2014-0568; FRL-9995-39-
Region 3] received July 10, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
1638. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Revision of Sheboygan
County, Wisconsin Nonattainment Designa-
tion for the 1997 and 2008 Ozone Standards
and Clean Data Determination for the 2008
Ozone Standards [EPA-R05-OAR-2018-0035;
FRL-9996-18-Region 5] received July 10, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
1639. A letter from the Chairman, Council
of the District of Columbia, transmitting
D.C. Act 23-70, ‘‘Fair Elections Temporary
Amendment Act of 2019’’, pursuant to Public
Law 93-198, Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
1640. A letter from the Chairman, Council
of the District of Columbia, transmitting
D.C. Act 23-71, ‘‘Adams Morgan Business Im-
provement District Temporary Amendment
Act of 2019’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198,
Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
1641. A letter from the Chairman, Council
of the District of Columbia, transmitting
D.C. Act 23-73, ‘‘Florida Avenue Multimodal
Project Completion Temporary Amendment
Act of 2019’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198,
Sec. 602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
1642. A letter from the Chairman, Council
of the District of Columbia, transmitting
D.C. Act 23-74, ‘‘Fiscal Year 2019 Revised
Local Budget Temporary Adjustment Act of
2019’’, pursuant to Public Law 93-198, Sec.
602(c)(1); (87 Stat. 814); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
1643. A letter from the Acting Deputy Di-
rector, Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
NMFS, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, transmitting the Adminis-
tration’s final rule — Magnuson-Stevens Act
Provisions; Fisheries Off West Coast States;
Pacific Coast Groundfish Fishery; 2017-2018
Biennial Specifications and Management
Measures; Inseason Adjustments [Docket
No.: 160808696-7010-02] (RIN: 0648-BI50) re-
ceived July 9, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
1644. A letter from the Regulatory Analyst,
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administra-
tion, Department of Transportation, trans-
mitting the Department’s final rule — Incor-
poration by Reference; North American
Standard Out-of-Service Criteria; Hazardous
Materials Safety Permits [Docket No.:
FMCSA-2018-0165] (RIN: 2126-AC01) received
July 10, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. RASKIN: Committee on Rules. House
Resolution 491. Resolution providing for con-
sideration of the bill (H.R. 3494) to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for intel-
ligence and intelligence-related activities of
the United States Government, the Commu-
nity Management Account, and the Central
Intelligence Agency Retirement and Dis-
ability System, and for other purposes; relat-
ing to the consideration of House Report 116–
125 and an accompanying resolution; relating
to the consideration of measures dis-
approving of sales, exports, or approvals pur-
suant to the Arms Export Control Act; and
providing for consideration of the resolution
(H. Res. 489) condemning President Trump’s
racist comments directed at Members of
Congress (Rept. 116–154). Referred to the
House Calendar.
Mr. MORELLE: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 492. Resolution providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 582) to pro-
vide for increases in the Federal minimum
wage, and for other purposes (Rept. 116–155).
Referred to the House Calendar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. SWALWELL of California (for
himself and Ms. ESHOO):
H.R. 3751. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to provide for the relief of
interest on certain Federal student loans; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 3752. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to carry out a grant pro-
gram for veterans to become appraisers for
home loans under chapter 37 of title 38,
United States Code; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself and
Mr. PASCRELL):
H.R. 3753. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to establish rules for
payment for graduate medical education
(GME) costs for hospitals that establish a
new medical residency training program
after hosting resident rotators for short du-
rations; to the Committee on Ways and
Means, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. AMASH:
H.R. 3754. A bill to amend the Controlled
Substances Act to provide for a new rule re-
garding the application of the Act to mari-
huana, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and in addition to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. ARMSTRONG:
H.R. 3755. A bill to redesignate the Sullys
Hill National Game Preserve in the State of
North Dakota as the White Horse Hill Na-
tional Game Preserve; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. BEYER:
H.R. 3756. A bill to ensure that pre-appren-
ticeship programs are considered when plan-
ning health professions opportunity grant
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.032 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5825
July 15, 2019
career pathway demonstration projects; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. CLEAVER (for himself and Mr.
BARR):
H.R. 3757. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in commemora-
tion of the centennial of the minting of the
Morgan dollar and the Peace dollar; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for
himself, Mr. STANTON, Mr. PALAZZO,
and Mr. PANETTA):
H.R. 3758. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, with respect to apportionments
to small transit intensive cities, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself, Mr.
PANETTA, Ms. CHENEY, and Mr.
GALLEGO):
H.R. 3759. A bill to prohibit United States
persons from dealing in certain information
and communications technology or services
from foreign adversaries and to require the
approval of Congress to terminate certain
export controls in effect with respect to
Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs, and in addition to the Committees on
Rules, and Ways and Means, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. JAYAPAL (for herself, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. JUDY
CHU of California, Ms. GARCIA of
Texas, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. LEE of
California, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Ms.
MENG, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. POCAN, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. SERRANO, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, Ms. HAALAND, Mrs.
DINGELL, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. TED LIEU
of California, Ms. OMAR, Ms.
DELAURO, Mr. NADLER, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. ENGEL, and Ms.
ADAMS):
H.R. 3760. A bill to enhance the rights of
domestic workers, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Education and Labor, and
in addition to the Committees on Energy and
Commerce, Ways and Means, the Judiciary,
House Administration, and Oversight and
Reform, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mrs. LEE of Nevada (for herself, Ms.
FINKENAUER, Ms. SHERRILL, Ms. WIL-
SON of Florida, and Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS of Illinois):
H.R. 3761. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to prohibit institutions of
higher education from denying students ac-
cess to transcripts because of loan default; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. LOEBSACK (for himself, Mr.
CARTER of Georgia, Mr. GOSAR, Mr.
VAN DREW, Mr. SIMPSON, Ms. CLARKE
of New York, Mr. FERGUSON, and Mr.
POCAN):
H.R. 3762. A bill to amend title XXVII of
the Public Health Service Act to improve
health care coverage under vision and dental
plans, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. MCCAUL (for himself and Mr.
CUELLAR):
H.R. 3763. A bill to direct the Secretary of
State to provide assistance and technical ex-
pertise to enhance the representation and
leadership of the United States at inter-
national standards-setting bodies that set
standards for 5th and future generations mo-
bile telecommunications systems and infra-
structure, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. SCANLON (for herself, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, Mr. CICILLINE,
and Mr. NADLER):
H.R. 3764. A bill to amend title 9 of the
United States Code to prohibit predispute ar-
bitration agreements that force arbitration
of disputes arising from private education
loans, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MALINOWSKI (for himself, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. CARBAJAL,
Ms. OMAR, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mrs. TORRES of
California, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
TLAIB, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. RASKIN,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, and Mr.
ESPAILLAT):
H. Res. 489. A resolution condemning Presi-
dent Trump’s racist comments directed at
Members of Congress; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Ms. TLAIB, Ms. OMAR, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr.
CASTRO of Texas, Ms. JAYAPAL, and
Ms. PRESSLEY):
H. Res. 490. A resolution condemning and
censuring President Donald Trump; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials
were presented and referred as follows:
96. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of
the House of Representatives of the State of
Illinois, relative to House Resolution No. 6,
urging President Trump and the United
States Congress to continue to work to find
a solution to the problems created by the
Windfall Elimination Provision; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
97. Also, a memorial of the House of Rep-
resentatives of the State of Illinois, relative
to House Resolution No.: 61, calling on the
President of the United States to make it
the policy of the U.S. that it will not start a
nuclear war and therefore will not use nu-
clear weapons first, and we call on the
United States Congress to pass legislation
supporting this policy; jointly to the Com-
mittees on Foreign Affairs and Armed Serv-
ices.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. SWALWELL of California:
H.R. 3751.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. HARDER of California:
H.R. 3752.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. GOTTHEIMER:
H.R. 3753.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. AMASH:
H.R. 3754.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress has the implied power to repeal
laws that exceed its constitutional authority
as well as laws within its constitutional au-
thority
By Mr. ARMSTRONG:
H.R. 3755.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, section 3, clause 2
and
Article I, section 8, clause 18
By Mr. BEYER:
H.R. 3756.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution, to ‘‘provide for the com-
mon Defense and general Welfare of the
United States.’’
By Mr. CLEAVER:
H.R. 3757.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Title 1 of the U.S. Constitution.
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 3758.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the power of Congress as stated
in Article I, Section 8, Clause 7 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 3759.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3.
By Ms. JAYAPAL:
H.R. 3760.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8.
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Mrs. LEE of Nevada:
H.R. 3761.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clause 1 provides Con-
gress with the power to ‘‘lay and collect
Taxes, Duties, Imports and Excises’’ in order
to ‘‘provide for the . . . general welfare of
the United States.’’
By Mr. LOEBSACK:
H.R. 3762.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. MCCAUL:
H.R. 3763.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, section 8
By Ms. SCANLON:
H.R. 3764.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors were
added to public bills and resolutions, as fol-
lows:
H.R. 24: Mr. BYRNE and Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 40: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 94: Mr. BERA.
H.R. 141: Mr. PALLONE.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L15JY7.100 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5826 July 15, 2019
H.R. 154: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 196: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 303: Mrs. AXNE and Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada.
H.R. 333: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 372: Mr. YOUNG.
H.R. 397: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 485: Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 510: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 526: Mr. TAYLOR and Mr. TIMMONS.
H.R. 538: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 585: Mr. BEYER, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Ms. DEGETTE, Ms. McCollum,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. NORTON, Mr. SAR-
BANES, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 647: Mr. MARCHANT, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Ms. UNDERWOOD, and Ms. CLARK
of Massachusetts.
H.R. 712: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 724: Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. MCHENRY, and Mr. PHIL-
LIPS.
H.R. 737: Ms. SCANLON and Mr. BURCHETT.
H.R. 748: Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky, Mr.
CURTIS, Mr. CARTER of Georgia, Mr. LATTA,
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico, and Mr.
STEUBE.
H.R. 763: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 925: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 935: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 942: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 961: Ms. SCANLON and Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 1011: Ms. DEGETTE and Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 1042: Ms. SCANLON and Mrs. DAVIS of
California.
H.R. 1078: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 1154: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 1164: Mr. HIGGINS of New York.
H.R. 1175: Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. SMUCKER, and
Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 1186: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 1269: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 1305: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 1337: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 1346: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1349: Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 1358: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 1360: Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 1379: Mr. PAYNE, Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington, Mr. SIRES, Mr. CALVERT,
Ms. DEGETTE, Ms. Barragán, Mrs. BEATTY,
Mrs. MURPHY, and Mr. HICE of Georgia.
H.R. 1400: Ms. LEE of California and Mr.
CARBAJAL.
H.R. 1406: Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 1418: Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota.
H.R. 1440: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI and Mr.
CARBAJAL.
H.R. 1441: Mr. ZELDIN.
H.R. 1444: Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 1446: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 1511: Mr. RYAN and Ms. MENG.
H.R. 1530: Mr. UPTON, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. CLAY, and Mr. TED
LIEU of California.
H.R. 1572: Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 1597: Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. BARRAGÁN, and
Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 1641: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr. SIMP-
SON, Mr. HORSFORD, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK, Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr. CURTIS, and
Mr. BURCHETT.
H.R. 1679: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 1709: Ms. PRESSLEY and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H.R. 1727: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1728: Mr. HICE of Georgia.
H.R. 1754: Mr. MORELLE, Mr. STAUBER, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, and Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 1788: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. HUFFMAN,
Mr. RUSH, and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 1837: Mr. DUNCAN and Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 1850: Mr. TRONE and Mr. KINZINGER.
H.R. 1954: Mr. WOMACK.
H.R. 1970: Mr. LONG.
H.R. 2031: Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 2037: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. KHANNA,
and Mr. CURTIS.
H.R. 2056: Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr.
COURTNEY, and Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2089: Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 2124: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 2128: Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 2146: Mr. CUNNINGHAM and Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 2156: Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 2178: Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 2181: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 2199: Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. MCNERNEY,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, and Mr. TAKANO.
H.R. 2203: Ms. MATSUI, Mr. KILMER, Mr.
VEASEY, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, and Mr.
TRONE.
H.R. 2214: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina.
H.R. 2218: Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 2253: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2256: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr.
HECK, and Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 2257: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2311: Mr. COHEN, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 2328: Mr. SABLAN.
H.R. 2335: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 2350: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER and Mr.
KENNEDY.
H.R. 2353: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 2382: Mr. PALLONE, Ms. WILD, Ms.
ESCOBAR, and Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 2420: Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. HORSFORD, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. RASKIN,
Ms. SHALALA, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. LYNCH, and
Ms. MENG.
H.R. 2424: Ms. MCCOLLUM and Ms. LEE of
California.
H.R. 2426: Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. STEUBE, Mr.
MEADOWS, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, and Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 2438: Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 2441: Mr. SIRES, Ms. LOFGREN, and
Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2453: Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 2498: Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 2501: Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, and Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 2532: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2571: Mr. DESJARLAIS.
H.R. 2579: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2615: Mr. PHILLIPS and Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina.
H.R. 2623: Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 2643: Ms. Craig.
H.R. 2685: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2721: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 2731: Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. BACON, Mr.
WELCH, and Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 2775: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 2778: Ms. SCHRIER and Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 2796: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2808: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2842: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 2846: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 2853: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 2866: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 2887: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 2905: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 2913: Mr. BOST.
H.R. 2918: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 3005: Ms. PELOSI and Mr. MCCARTHY.
H.R. 3038: Mr. WESTERMAN, Ms. TORRES
SMALL of New Mexico, and Mr. SHERMAN.
H.R. 3062: Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H.R. 3076: Ms. UNDERWOOD, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms.
WEXTON, Ms. HOULAHAN, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr.
MORELLE, Mr. KILDEE, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, and
Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 3082: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 3096: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 3098: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 3103: Ms. SLOTKIN and Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire.
H.R. 3143: Mr. BRADY.
H.R. 3182: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr.
CRAWFORD.
H.R. 3190: Mr. HIMES, Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia, Mr. TED LIEU of California, and Mr.
PERRY.
H.R. 3195: Mr. LARSON of Connecticut, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Mr. PALLONE, Mr.
MARSHALL, Ms. STEVENS, Mr. JEFFRIES, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. CÁRDENAS, and Mr. GONZALEZ
of Texas.
H.R. 3197: Mr. CLAY, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr.
EVANS, Ms. DEAN, Mr. SOTO, Ms. SÁNCHEZ,
Mrs. TRAHAN, Ms. BASS, and Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia.
H.R. 3224: Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 3239: Ms. DELAURO, Mr. LARSEN of
Washington, and Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 3280: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 3296: Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 3319: Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 3369: Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. BERA, and
Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 3370: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 3375: Mr. LYNCH, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina, Mr. SIRES, Mr. LEWIS, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, and Mr. RICE of
South Carolina.
H.R. 3378: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, and Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 3400: Mr. ROUDA, Mr. WELCH, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, and Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 3402: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 3403: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 3404: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 3444: Mr. COMER.
H.R. 3451: Mr. EVANS, Mr. KENNEDY, and
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 3452: Mr. EVANS, Ms. NORTON, and Mr.
PANETTA.
H.R. 3463: Ms. DELAURO, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr.
VARGAS, Ms. MCCOLLUM, and Ms. JUDY CHU
of California.
H.R. 3473: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 3482: Mr. SAN NICOLAS, Mr. SABLAN,
Ms. GABBARD, and Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of
Puerto Rico.
H.R. 3487: Mr. GARAMENDI and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 3501: Mr. ALLRED and Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 3510: Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. NEAL, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Ms. MOORE, and Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 3517: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL and Ms.
PINGREE.
H.R. 3524: Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 3529: Mr. TIMMONS and Mr. LAMBORN.
H.R. 3530: Mr. MEADOWS and Mr. RUTHER-
FORD.
H.R. 3534: Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 3537: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 3580: Mr. STEUBE, Mr. FLORES, Mr.
BIGGS, Mrs. RODGERS of Washington, and Mr.
HARRIS.
H.R. 3589: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr. HASTINGS,
Mr. BEYER, Mr. CRIST, Mr. TED LIEU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms. MENG, Mr. COO-
PER, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr.
QUIGLEY, Mr. VELA, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
Mr. ROUDA, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. VISCLOSKY, Ms.
CASTOR of Florida, Mr. HIMES, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. LOEBSACK, Ms.
KAPTUR, Mr. GOMEZ, Ms. SCANLON, Mr. HARD-
ER of California, Mr. RASKIN, Mrs. LOWEY,
Ms. PINGREE, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
PAYNE, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. YARMUTH,
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Mr. TAYLOR,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. WILSON of South Carolina,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mrs. MCBATH, Mr. HOYER, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr.
NEWHOUSE, Mr. SOTO, Ms. LEE of California,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr. WESTERMAN,
Mr. YOHO, Mr. LAMB, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER,
Ms. FRANKEL, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. SHIMKUS,
MR. GRIJALVA, Mrs. LURIA, Mr. TAKANO, Ms.
GRANGER, Mr. ALLRED, Ms. WILD, Mr.
SABLAN, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. CORREA,
Mr. COSTA, Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. LYNCH, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, and Mr.
MOULTON.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.039 H15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5827
July 15, 2019
H.R. 3594: Mr. HARRIS and Mr. CLOUD.
H.R. 3614: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 3618: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 3619: Mr. DUFFY and Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 3620: Mrs. AXNE, Mr. LAWSON of Flor-
ida, and Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 3623: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. DEAN, Mr.
SAN NICOLAS, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Mr. SOTO, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, and Mr.
NEGUSE.
H.R. 3627: Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 3637: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 3661: Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 3668: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. MORELLE,
and Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 3685: Ms. TLAIB, Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi, and Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 3702: Mr. MEEKS, Mr. VARGAS, Ms.
GARCIA of Texas, Mr. SAN NICOLAS, and Mrs.
AXNE.
H.R. 3711: Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 3722: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3724: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 3735: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 3742: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms.
STEFANIK, and Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 3745: Mr. COHEN.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania and Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.J. Res. 32: Mr. CURTIS.
H. Con. Res. 32: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H. Con. Res. 52: Mr. BEYER.
H. Res. 23: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H. Res. 127: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, Mr.
CHABOT, Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
MEADOWS, Mr. MEEKS, and Mr. CURTIS.
H. Res. 138: Mr. ROONEY of Florida.
H. Res. 190: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H. Res. 220: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H. Res. 246: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H. Res. 255: Mrs. TRAHAN.
H. Res. 326: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H. Res. 345: Mr. TAYLOR.
H. Res. 358: Ms. MCCOLLUM and Mr. POCAN.
H. Res. 390: Mr. FULCHER.
H. Res. 432: Mr. KEATING, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, and Mr. TAYLOR.
H. Res. 441: Mr. TAYLOR and Mr. COHEN.
H. Res. 442: Mrs. TRAHAN.
H. Res. 452: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:43 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY7.044 H15JYPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S4813
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, JULY 15, 2019 No. 118
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Father of all, give us the wisdom to
cultivate reverential awe for You. In-
spired by this wisdom, empower our
Senators to strive to please You. May
our lawmakers remember that You are
an ever-present help during turbulent
times, eager to deliver those who call
on Your Holy Name.
Lord, sustain our Senators with Your
might. Continue to bless and keep us
all. Make Your face to shine upon us
and be gracious to us. Lift the light of
Your countenance upon us and give us
Your peace.
We pray in Your sacred name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for 30 sec-
onds as in morning business, please.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
SREBRENICA GENOCIDE
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, 24
years ago radical Serb forces com-
mitted the worst genocide on European
soil since the Holocaust. In and around
the hallowed grounds at Srebrenica,
over 8,000 Bosnians were murdered out
of ethnic and religious hatred.
Iowa, my State, is now home to
many Bosnians who bore witnesses to
those atrocities. I pray that they and
their families find peace, as well as jus-
tice. Ethnic and religious hatred must
never be tolerated, and we must not
forget the victims of this crime.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
BUSINESS BEFORE THE SENATE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, the
Senate is getting started on another
busy week in which we will complete
more important business for the Amer-
ican people. We will confirm a number
of well-qualified nominees, as well as a
number of treaties that pertain to
international commerce and keeping
our economy strong.
First, the nominations. Later this
afternoon, we will build on 21⁄2 years of
confirming talented, capable jurists to
our Federal courts and vote to advance
the nomination of Judge Peter Phipps
for the Third Circuit Court of Appeals.
Judge Phipps is a graduate of the
University of Dayton and Stanford Law
School. His impressive professional
record includes time in private prac-
tice, a clerkship on the Sixth Circuit
Court of Appeals, and 15 years of deco-
rated service with the Department of
Justice.
At DOJ, while handling sensitive and
high-profile cases in the Federal Pro-
grams Branch, Judge Phipps left a last-
ing impression on colleagues and op-
posing counsel alike. Litigators who
worked both with him and against him
have written to the Senate to praise
his ‘‘piercing intellect, deep knowledge
of the law . . . and personable relations
with everyone in the courtroom.’’
A number of his former DOJ col-
leagues attest that his ‘‘ability to mas-
ter complex issues quickly made him
the sort of lawyer other lawyers would
turn to with questions or for counsel.’’
Listen to this. Leon Panetta, the
former Secretary of Defense to Presi-
dent Obama, has worked with Judge
Phipps in the past and has great things
to say about his ‘‘legal acumen, dedica-
tion, attention to detail, and integ-
rity.’’ He says: ‘‘I believe that Peter
will serve with honor and highly rec-
ommend his confirmation.’’ That is
President Obama’s Secretary of De-
fense.
Given all this, it is hardly surprising
that when Judge Phipps was first nom-
inated to serve as district judge for the
Western District of Pennsylvania, the
Senate confirmed him on a voice vote.
This body saw what everybody else had
seen—an impressively qualified, intel-
lectually excellent individual who
firmly understands what the job of a
judge does and does not entail in our
constitutional system.
So I am sorry that this nominee who
earned a voice vote to his current posi-
tion will now require a cloture vote
this afternoon, but, nevertheless, I
look forward to voting to advance his
nomination today and voting to con-
firm him later in the week. I urge our
colleagues to join me.
Following that nomination, the Sen-
ate will tend to another of this body’s
unique responsibilities—the ratifica-
tion of treaties. For the better part of
the last century, the United States has
engaged in bilateral tax treaties with
foreign trading partners. These meas-
ures cultivate robust trading relation-
ships and put in place important clari-
fications to ensure that American busi-
nesses can avoid double tax burdens.
Today, America is engaged in about
60 such treaties with major allies and
developing partners alike. Together,
they account for literally trillions of
dollars in foreign investment across
our country.
This week, there are several more
awaiting consideration. The Senate
needs to act on treaties with Spain, the
Swiss Federation, Japan, and Luxem-
bourg. I have heard from job creators
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY6.000 S15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4814 July 15, 2019
in my State of Kentucky about the im-
portance of creating more certainty by
getting these treaties approved, and I
expect my colleagues have heard simi-
lar things from employers in their
States as well. So these measures
should be taken up and ratified with-
out delay.
On behalf of American workers and
entrepreneurs, I hope each of our col-
leagues will join me in voting yes this
week.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
f
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, over
the weekend, President Trump
launched a series of insults at Demo-
cratic congresswomen, suggesting they
‘‘go back’’ to the countries they came
from, despite the fact that three of the
four were born in the United States
and that citizenship in America, by
birth or naturalization, is inherently
equal and has been for centuries.
These lawmakers are women of color.
Telling them to ‘‘go back’’ to their
countries is one of the oldest and crud-
est tropes to malign nonwhite Ameri-
cans. The President’s comments drip
with racism.
We don’t know why the President
woke up on Saturday and made these
comments—perhaps to distract from
his administration’s barbaric immigra-
tion policy, which rips children away
from their parents, even little children;
perhaps to distract from the humani-
tarian crisis he has exacerbated at our
border and perhaps to detract from his
planned but not really executed depor-
tation raids, which many in his own
bureaucracy do not want to carry out
and feel are difficult to carry out in a
fair way because they can’t be done
fairly. Perhaps it is even to distract
from his administration’s attempt to
dismantle our healthcare system
through the courts. Maybe the Presi-
dent just feels comfortable stoking ra-
cial divisions in this country. Maybe
that is his milieu. After all, this is part
of a pattern of behavior that began
with the birther treatment of Presi-
dent Obama and his characterization of
Mexicans in his announcement speech,
continued with his attack on an Amer-
ican-born judge of Mexican descent, his
proposed Muslim ban, his response to
Charlottesville, and includes comments
about Caribbean and African nations
that cannot be repeated here on the
floor of the Senate.
Whatever the reason, whatever the
motivation, the President’s comments
demand condemnation from all corners
of the political spectrum—all corners.
It has become frightfully common for
many of my Republican colleagues to
let these moments sail by without say-
ing even a word.
Republican leadership especially
rarely criticizes the President directly,
even in a situation like this that so
clearly merits it. I am left to wonder if
the silence of many Republicans in the
wake of President Trump’s xenophobic
tweets is out of embarrassment or
agreement—embarrassment or agree-
ment. Both are inexcusable.
Some of my Republican colleagues
are hoping that the President realizes
the error of his ways and disavows or
deletes his tweets from yesterday. But
the President just walked out of the
White House a few hours ago and dou-
bled down on his racist comments.
My Republican friends, he is not
backing off. Where are you when some-
thing this serious, this bigoted, this
un-American, happens? If you are say-
ing to yourselves ‘‘Well, he got us our
big tax cut; well, he’s taking regula-
tions off big corporations; well, he
pulled out of the Paris Accords, so we
have to go along with this racism,’’
you are making a deal with the devil.
It is so wrong, so wrong.
The President of the United States is
supposed to bring this country to-
gether. It is clear this President will
not, doesn’t want to, and revels in di-
viding us. No American President has
done this. No American President has
resorted to open and bold-faced bigotry
so often. His goal—President Trump’s
goal—sadly is not to unite but to di-
vide. That is how he has climbed the
ladder politically, and it is just awful.
It is incumbent on all of us, Demo-
crat and Republican, to call him out
when he does this and remind the
President and the country what Amer-
ica truly stands for. Anything short of
that is insufficient and is un-American.
It could be argued that Republicans
who fail to do so because of shame, be-
cause they are afraid of offending the
President’s supporters, because they
are afraid of the President, or worse,
because they agree with the Presi-
dent—those who fail to condemn the
President are fellow travelers on the
President’s racist road, whatever their
motivation.
Speaker PELOSI has said that the
House will introduce a resolution de-
nouncing the President’s comments.
Our intention is to do the same in the
Senate. We will see how many Repub-
licans will sign on.
f
9/11 VICTIM COMPENSATION FUND
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, on an-
other matter, last Friday, in an over-
whelmingly bipartisan vote, I am
happy to say that the House reauthor-
ized the 9/11 Victim Compensation
Fund and made it virtually permanent.
I want to thank all of my colleagues
in the House. Above all, I want to com-
mend the first responders for their ad-
vocacy and support of this legislation.
The first responders are the heroes of
this story. They are the Washingtons
and the Madisons and the Monroes of
the 21st century, the great Ameri-
cans—each in their own modest way.
Not only did they rush to the towers on
that fateful day, risking their lives to
save others, but then, when the ill-
nesses started coming upon them, even
though many of them were sick, they
came to Washington and fought tire-
lessly for their brothers and sisters
who might get sick in the future.
Zadroga and Feal, Pfeiffer and Alva-
rez—these are the names of American
heroes. They represent the greatness of
America. We should honor them now
by passing the House bill to reauthor-
ize the Victim Compensation Fund as
soon as possible—no more delays, no
strings attached, no waiting for some
other must-pass vehicle to attach it to.
The bill passed the House with such
overwhelmingly bipartisan support
that it deserves a clean vote in the
Senate.
I say to my friend, Republican Lead-
er MCCONNELL: If it is good enough for
Leader MCCARTHY and Whip SCALISE,
who voted for it, surely it is good
enough for the Republican leader in the
Senate.
Only 12 voted against it. So many
very conservative Republicans—many
tea party Republicans—voted for the
bill in the House. That bill is the bill
that should be brought to the floor,
brought here quickly. It will pass over-
whelmingly and could be on the Presi-
dent’s desk, certainly in the next week.
If Leader MCCONNELL would put this
bill on the floor this week, it would
pass this week. It would go to the
President’s desk this week. It would be
signed into law this week, and we could
put this issue to rest this week, once
and for all.
We can’t put the illnesses to rest.
Those first responders, many of whom
have gotten ill, too many of whom
have passed away, and many more of
whom have these illnesses in their bod-
ies but they don’t even know it yet—
they could then do their job of helping
heal their fellow first responders and
helping heal themselves and looking
after their families. They wouldn’t
have to keep coming here.
We need to move this bill quickly. I
urge Leader MCCONNELL, once again, to
put the bill on the floor, honor those
brave first responders who are no dif-
ferent from our soldiers and our Armed
Forces who rushed to danger and
risked their lives for us and our free-
dom. Put it on the floor, and we can
get this done. We can get it done this
week.
I yield the floor.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15JY6.001 S15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4815
July 15, 2019
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Peter Joseph Phipps, of Penn-
sylvania, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Third Circuit.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I sug-
gest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ELECTION SECURITY
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I stand
here this afternoon in a state of dis-
belief. Last Wednesday, my colleagues
and I in the Congress were briefed on
the state of election security in Amer-
ica.
I am prohibited from talking about
the details of that classified briefing,
but the message from my Republican
colleagues after that elections security
meeting was very clear: Nothing to see
here. One Senator said it is clear the
Federal Government is doing ‘‘every-
thing you can do.’’ The top Republican
on the House Homeland Security Com-
mittee said: ‘‘I wouldn’t say we’ve got
a need for more election security legis-
lation.’’ A Member of the House Repub-
lican leadership said: ‘‘The agencies
have the tools they need, and I am con-
fident they are addressing the
threats.’’
It is case closed for those Repub-
licans—mission accomplished. My Re-
publican colleagues were just so satis-
fied that the foundation of our democ-
racy is in good hands. Election security
is not a problem for those colleagues I
just quoted.
It was to my enormous shock this
weekend when I picked up my phone,
and I read the following headline: ‘‘Old
Software makes new electoral systems
ripe for hacking.’’
Over the weekend, I said: Gosh, that
just can’t possibly be right. After all,
my Republican colleagues said after
the classified briefing that election se-
curity issues were in good shape. I just
kept reading, and as it turns out, ac-
cording to an exhaustive analysis by
the Associated Press, the vast majority
of 10,000 election jurisdictions nation-
wide use election management systems
that run on old software that is soon
going to be out of date and ripe for ex-
ploitation by hackers.
According to the Associated Press,
Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan,
Florida, Iowa, Indiana, Arizona, and
North Carolina, among others, are all
at risk. Even the State of Georgia,
which just passed legislation to buy
new voting machines, is on track to
buy equipment that suffers from this
significant cyber security weakness.
Worse, two of the three largest voting
machine companies, ES&S and Hart,
don’t make election systems that are
free from this vulnerability. Many
election officials will be buying elec-
tion systems that will be out of date
the moment they start using it.
I am reading this story, and I am
thinking to myself: Maybe—just
maybe—this Trump administration
hasn’t solved the election security
issue.
Now, colleagues, I am being a little
bit disingenuous here. I have actually
known about this problem for some
time. In fact, I wrote to the Election
Assistance Commission about it be-
cause, of course, our elections weren’t
secure last week, and they sure as heck
aren’t secure this week. Anybody who
says otherwise is either selling you a
voting machine or simply has a mali-
cious intent toward our elections.
Russia attacked our democracy on
every front in 2016, including voter reg-
istration databases and election soft-
ware vendors. I am a member of the
Senate Intelligence Committee, and I
can’t talk about classified matters, but
it is public record that there were at-
tacks on our election infrastructure in
2018.
Our colleague Senator RUBIO of Flor-
ida even said that hackers were ‘‘in a
position’’ to alter voter rolls in 2016. In
April, the FBI Director said that 2018
was, ‘‘just kind of a dress rehearsal for
the big show in 2020.’’
I will say, as I have been saying at
home at townhall meetings across my
home State, that in 2020 I believe the
hostile foreign actors are going to
make 2016 look like small potatoes, and
I am not just talking about the Rus-
sians here.
What the Associated Press revealed
this weekend should be chilling for
anybody fighting to protect our elec-
tions from foreign interference, but it
is certainly not the first indication
Americans have gotten that our elec-
tions are vulnerable.
Last year, the journalist, Kim Zetter,
and the New York Times reported that
ES&S had installed remote access soft-
ware and wireless modems in election
equipment for years. I believe that is
about the worst thing you can do in
terms of election security in America,
short of putting American ballot boxes
on a Moscow street.
Special Counsel Robert Mueller re-
vealed in his report that an election
software vendor was actually hacked
by Russia in the summer of 2016. The
public still doesn’t know enough about
what happened there or what the gov-
ernment did to investigate. This is an-
other area where I am seeking to exca-
vate the facts. My colleagues, particu-
larly my colleague from Minnesota,
Senator KLOBUCHAR, and my colleague
from Rhode Island, Senator REED, are
doing the same.
VR Systems, the company Mr.
Mueller was referring to, sold e-
pollbooks to a county in North Caro-
lina. I am talking now about the sys-
tems that workers used to check voters
in at a precinct. It happened that sev-
eral of the VR Systems e-pollbooks
used by Durham County in North Caro-
lina malfunctioned on election day in
2016. The problem was so bad that one
precinct had to shut down completely
for several hours.
Last month, I asked the FBI what
happened; is anybody investigating? It
sure looks like no Federal Agency has
been out there looking at these mal-
functioning e-pollbooks. It wasn’t until
last month that the Department of
Homeland Security announced it would
finally perform a forensic examination
of the Durham County machines. That
is not good enough. It is critical to se-
cure our political parties, our cam-
paigns, and the votes of Americans.
In 2015 and 2016, Russia hacked two
Democratic campaign committees.
Russian hackers also stole emails from
John Podesta, Secretary Clinton’s
campaign manager. The Russian Gov-
ernment then leaked Democratic
emails to influence the Presidential
and, reportedly, House races in six
States.
As I have emphasized at every part of
my investigation, every part of my ef-
forts, this is not a problem reserved for
one political party. The National Re-
publican Party committees have also
all been hacked in the past, as well as
the campaigns of Senator GRAHAM and
our late colleague John McCain.
Political campaigns don’t have the
expertise or resources to protect them-
selves from foreign government hack-
ers. They ought to be in a position to
get assistance, and if Congress doesn’t
act, they are going to get hacked again
in 2020.
That is why I introduced legislation
earlier this year, the Federal Campaign
Cybersecurity Assistance Act, to se-
cure campaigns and State parties. This
would apply to both Democrats and Re-
publicans. The bill turns the party
committees, like the Democratic Na-
tional Committee and the Republican
National Committee, into an ‘‘IT de-
partment’’ for their campaigns, State
parties, and candidates. The parties
will be able to give campaigns profes-
sionally managed, secured laptops, cell
phones, and emails, which are much
harder to hack. I think it is in the in-
terest of our country, voters, Demo-
crats, and Republicans to pass that
bill.
I am going to close my remarks
where I began, this extraordinary in-
formation that was compiled by the
Associated Press that demonstrates
that out-of-date software is going to be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:54 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15JY6.002 S15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4816 July 15, 2019
used by election officials all over the
country unless something is done
about it. As a result, I have asked the
Election Assistance Commission what
they are going to do to stop the pro-
liferation of out-of-date, insecure soft-
ware.
A lot of people tell me, don’t stay up
waiting for much.
Earlier this year, I asked the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security how many
States used voting machines with old,
insecure software on Election Day in
November of 2018. They said they didn’t
know. I will say it again. The Agency
in charge of protecting our election in-
frastructure against cyber threats has
no idea how many vulnerable voting
machines are out there right now. That
is a big problem.
An even bigger problem is the inad-
equate laws. Right now, there are no
mandatory Federal cyber security
standards for elections. There is no law
or regulation that says States can’t use
insecure machines. It is perfectly legal
for the biggest voting machine com-
pany in America—and these voting ma-
chine companies basically think they
are above the law; they wouldn’t even
answer basic questions when I asked
them—to sell a small county equip-
ment that every cyber security expert
in America knows is insecure. It is per-
fectly legal for a county clerk to put
the outcome of a Presidential election
at risk by buying insecure machines.
I will just say to my colleagues, I
don’t think this has anything to do
with Democrats or Republicans. I be-
lieve it is an out-and-out scandal—an
out-and-out scandal that does a dis-
service to our country and particularly
the sacred right to make sure that all
Americans can vote and have their
vote counted.
Congress has poured hundreds of mil-
lions of dollars into election tech-
nology since 2016, but without required
cyber security standards, a huge por-
tion of that money is going to go to-
wards voting machines and election
systems that are not much better than
the insecure systems they are replac-
ing.
The Congress must do better. Vol-
untary standards or just saying to the
local governments ‘‘We are just going
to let you do your own thing’’ will not
cut it on cyber security. It is up to the
Congress to get serious, finally, about
providing for the security of our elec-
tions.
I have been pushing hard for hand-
marked paper ballots and risk-limiting
audits as key defenses against the
hackers. The hackers are, in effect,
burglars out there knocking on win-
dows just looking for an opportunity to
exploit. We need a stronger defense
against these hackers, and it is crit-
ical.
In addition to the hand-marked paper
ballots and the risk-limiting audits, it
is critical for Congress to pass legisla-
tion giving the Federal Government
the authority to require basic cyber se-
curity for election infrastructure. In
my view, anything less is waiving a
white flag to foreign hackers.
By blocking any and all election se-
curity legislation, I believe Donald
Trump and the majority here in the
Senate are in effect rolling out the red
carpet for all of the hostile foreign ac-
tors I have mentioned here and saying:
Look, there are holes in our cyber se-
curity. Come on in, and interfere in our
democracy.
We are better than that. I am going
to be working with Democrats and Re-
publicans to ensure that—especially in
light of the developments that were re-
ported on just in the last 72 hours
about the out-of-date software that we
are seeing in our voting machines all
across the country—I am going to work
with Democrats and Republicans to put
the security and the integrity of our
votes—a process that is sacred in our
country—first.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
(Ms. ERNST assumed the Chair.)
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Peter Joseph Phipps, of Pennsyl-
vania, to be United States Circuit Judge for
the Third Circuit.
Mitch McConnell, Roger F. Wicker, John
Barrasso, David Perdue, James E.
Risch, Mike Crapo, Roy Blunt, Johnny
Isakson, Shelley Moore Capito, Pat
Roberts, John Cornyn, John Hoeven,
Steve Daines, John Boozman, Thom
Tillis, Kevin Cramer, Richard Burr.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Peter Joseph Phipps, of Pennsyl-
vania, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Third Circuit, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Kansas (Mr. MORAN), the Senator
from Kentucky (Mr. PAUL), and the
Senator from Nebraska (Mr. SASSE).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Kansas (Mr. MORAN)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), and the Senator
from Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) are
necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 53,
nays 40, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 204 Ex.]
YEAS—53
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Murkowski
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—40
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Bennet
Booker
Gillibrand
Klobuchar
Moran
Paul
Sasse
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 53, the nays are 40.
The motion is agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
BICENTENNIAL OF HART COUNTY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, ear-
lier this year, Hart County in my home
State began a yearlong celebration of
its bicentennial anniversary. This
southcentral county is the proud home
to an abundance of Kentucky history
and culture. As they mark this impres-
sive milestone, the people of Hart
County, KY, are also ready to lead our
Commonwealth toward its bright fu-
ture.
The county was established in 1819
and named for a brave Kentuckian,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:03 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15JY6.004 S15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4817
July 15, 2019
Captain Nathaniel Gray Smith Hart. A
brother-in-law of Henry Clay and a
Lexington lawyer, Hart bravely served
the young Nation in the War of 1812,
when he was captured and killed at the
Battle of the River Raisin in the Michi-
gan Territory.
Its local history is deeply inter-
twined with the geography. Early set-
tlers planted roots near present-day
Horse Cave because of the fertile soil.
Like many Kentucky communities, the
economic success of burley tobacco
drove the local economy, putting food
on family tables and shoes on chil-
dren’s feet. The Green River opened ac-
cess routes for commerce throughout
the country, and the establishment of
the Mammoth Cave National Park, the
world’s longest known cave system,
has made Hart County a destination
for tourism.
The strategic construction of Louis-
ville & Nashville Railroad through
both Horse Cave and the county seat of
Munfordville in 1859 brought new waves
of economic growth. However, at the
outbreak of the American Civil War,
the railroad’s location also made it a
target. Segments of the track were at-
tacked by both Union and Confederate
troops, and the county was the site of
three battles. It is also the home of two
Civil War generals, Thomas J. Wood
fighting for the Union and future Ken-
tucky Governor Simon Bolivar
Buckner for the Confederacy. Each
September, the community remembers
its place in this chapter of American
history during the Hart County Civil
War Days.
Through the years, Hart County has
continued to prosper. The building of I–
65 through the county has bolstered the
area’s growth and opened new opportu-
nities for tourism and economic activ-
ity. Local leaders are especially proud
of the recent expansion of Sister
Schubert’s famous bakery and the
opening of the Green River College and
Career Academy. The county’s best
days are still ahead.
With a rich heritage and a promising
future, Hart County certainly has a lot
to celebrate. Along with the families
and leaders of the county like Judge
Executive Joe Choate, it is my privi-
lege to mark this great occasion. I ask
my Senate colleagues to join me in
celebrating 200 years of historic
achievement in Hart County.
f
BICENTENNIAL OF SIMPSON
COUNTY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
today I would like to join my fellow
Kentuckians in Simpson County as
they celebrate their bicentennial anni-
versary. Along our Commonwealth’s
southern border with Tennessee, Simp-
son County is home to two centuries of
rich history and cultural heritage.
Today, I would like to mark this im-
pressive milestone.
The county was named in tribute to a
brave Kentuckian who made the ulti-
mate sacrifice in service to our Nation
in the Battle of the River Raisin during
the War of 1812, Captain John Simpson.
A prominent Kentucky lawyer and
state legislator, Simpson served as the
speaker of Kentucky’s House of Rep-
resentatives in 1810 and 1811. The fol-
lowing year, Simpson was elected to
the U.S. House of Representatives, but
postponed taking his seat to join the
Army, where he was killed serving our
young Nation.
The county’s rich history and fertile
land has helped grow a strong agricul-
tural tradition, with tobacco, corn, and
hay planted in the soil. Interestingly,
Simpson County was also known as a
popular dueling ground in its earliest
days. The county’s proximity to the
state line apparently drew a number of
prominent individuals for these so-
called affairs of honor. Even Sam Hous-
ton, the future President of the Repub-
lic of Texas and U.S. Senator, is said to
have fought and won a duel there in
1826.
As with many communities through-
out Kentucky, Simpson County resi-
dents were sharply divided during the
American Civil War. Residents served
on both sides of the conflict, and troops
skirmished in the area following at-
tacks on two trains on the Louisville &
Nashville Railroad lines in 1863. The
war left a long-lasting impact on Simp-
son County’s economy and post-war re-
covery.
For many years, residents thrived
from a primarily agricultural econ-
omy. In fact, Simpson County was
known as one of the largest mule mar-
kets in the world. Midway through the
20th century, local leaders sought to
expand the county’s economy with the
help of the completion of I–65, which
runs through Franklin, the county seat
and its largest city. That growth con-
tinues to this day.
Residents have planned a year full of
festive events for Simpson County’s bi-
centennial year. In remembering their
proud history, they will also celebrate
the community’s great potential
ahead. With the leadership of Judge
Executive Mason Barnes and other
dedicated Kentuckians, this vibrant
community will continue to succeed in
our Commonwealth. I ask my Senate
colleagues to join me in marking 200
years of Simpson County heritage and
wishing them well for many more pros-
perous years to come.
f
IOWA SAFE SCHOOLS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President,
Iowans from the organization Iowa
Safe Schools asked me to note that
July 15 is the kickoff of their annual
Pride Camp. They tell me that it is an
opportunity to learn valuable life
skills and network with other LGBTQ
youth in a supportive and nurturing
environment and that it is a week full
of fun and learning for its attendees.
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act
requires that Congress receive prior no-
tification of certain proposed arms
sales as defined by that statute. Upon
such notification, the Congress has 30
calendar days during which the sale
may be reviewed. The provision stipu-
lates that, in the Senate, the notifica-
tion of proposed sales shall be sent to
the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee inten-
tion to see that relevant information is
available to the full Senate, I ask
unanimous consent to have printed in
the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(l) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–42 concerning the Army’s proposed Let-
ter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Govern-
ment of Germany for defense articles and
services estimated to cost $401 million. After
this letter is delivered to your office, we plan
to issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
GREGORY M. KAUSNER
(For Charles W. Hooper, Lieutenant
General, USA, Director).
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–42
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of
Germany
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment* $229 million.
Other $172 million.
Total $401 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
Fifty (50) Patriot Advanced Capability 3
(PAC–3) Missiles Segment Enhanced (MSE).
Non-MOE: Also included are PAC–3 MSE
launcher conversion kits; Missile Round
Trainers (MRTs); Empty Round Trainers
(ERTs); Launcher Stations (LS) heater con-
trollers; PAC–3 ground support equipment;
concurrent spare parts; documentation and
publications; PAC–3 MSE shorting plugs;
Quality Assurance Team; missile canister
consumables; missile skid kits; PAC–3 MSE
repair and return; missile Field Surveillance
Program (FSP) for PAC–3 MSE; U.S. Govern-
ment transportation; MSE launcher spare
parts; PAC–3/MSE GMT kits; MSE DC motor
kits; targets; Telemetry; U.S. Government
range support; MSE flight test support; U.S.
Government and contractor engineering;
technical and logistics support services; and
other related elements of logistical and pro-
gram support.
(iv) Military Department: Army (GY–B–
XAV).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: N/A.
(vi) Sales Commission. Fee, etc. Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:03 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY6.002 S15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4818 July 15, 2019
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
July 12, 2019.
*As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Government of Germany—Patriot Advanced
Capability 3 (PAC–3) Missiles Segment En-
hanced
The Government of Germany has requested
to buy fifty (50) Patriot Advanced Capability
3 (PAC–3) Missiles Segment Enhanced (MSE).
Also included are PAC–3 MSE launcher con-
version kits; Missile Round Trainers (MRTs);
Empty Round Trainers (ERTs); Launcher
Stations (LS) heater controllers; PAC–3
ground support equipment; concurrent spare
parts; documentation and publications; PAC–
3 MSE shorting plugs; Quality Assurance
Team; missile canister consumables; missile
skid kits; PAC–3 MSE repair and return; mis-
sile Field Surveillance Program (FSP) for
PAC–3 MSE; U.S. Government transpor-
tation; MSE launcher spare parts; PAC–3/
MSE GMT kits; MSE DC motor kits; targets;
Telemetry; U.S. Government range support;
MSE flight test support; U.S. Government
and contractor engineering; technical and lo-
gistics support services; and other related
elements of logistical and program support.
The total estimated value is $401 million.
This proposed sale will support to the for-
eign policy and national security of the
United States by helping to improve the se-
curity of a NATO ally, which is an important
force for political and economic stability in
Europe. It is vital to U.S. national interests
to assist our German ally in developing and
maintaining a strong and ready self-defense
capability.
The proposed sale will enhance Germany’s
capability to maintain the largest air de-
fense capacity in Europe. The purchase of
these additional missiles will allow Germany
to build a more robust air defense capability
and increase its air lethality against air de-
fense threats. This purchase also assist Ger-
many with its NATO commitments. Ger-
many will have no difficulty absorbing these
additional missiles into its armed forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment and
support will not alter the basic military bal-
ance in the region.
The prime contractor will be Lockheed
Martin, Dallas, TX. There are no known off-
set agreements proposed in connection with
this potential sale.
Implementation of this proposed sale will
require additional contractor representa-
tives to travel to Germany. It is not ex-
pected additional U.S. Government per-
sonnel will be required in country for an ex-
tended period of time.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–42
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. The PATRIOT Air Defense System con-
tains classified CONFIDENTIAL hardware
components, SECRET tactical software and
critical/sensitive technology. The Patriot
Advanced Capability 3 (PAC–3) Missile Seg-
ment Enhancement (MSE) hardware is clas-
sified CONFIDENTIAL and the associated
launcher hardware is UNCLASSIFIED. The
PAC–3 MSE is a high velocity, hit-to-kill,
surface-to-air missile that provides critical
air and missile defense by intercepting and
destroying Tactical Ballistic Missiles (TBM),
Air-Breathing Threats (ABT), cruise mis-
siles, and Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS).
2. The PAC–3 MSE sensitive/critical tech-
nology is primarily in the area of design and
production know-how and primarily inherent
in the design, development and/or manufac-
turing data related to certain components.
The list of components is classified CON-
FIDENTIAL.
3. Information on system performance ca-
pabilities, effectiveness, survivability, mis-
sile seeker capabilities, select software/soft-
ware documentation and test data are classi-
fied up to and including SECRET.
4. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the hardware
and software elements, the information
could be used to develop countermeasures or
equivalent systems, which might reduce sys-
tem effectiveness or be used in the develop-
ment of a system with similar or advanced
capabilities.
5. A determination has been made that the
recipient country can provide substantially
the same degree of protection for the sen-
sitive technology being released as the U.S.
Government. This sale is necessary in fur-
therance of the U.S. foreign policy and na-
tional security objectives outlined in the
Policy Justification.
6. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal are authorized for release
and export to the Government of Germany.
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act
requires that Congress receive prior no-
tification of certain proposed arms
sales as defined by that statute. Upon
such notification, the Congress has 30
calendar days during which the sale
may be reviewed. The provision stipu-
lates that, in the Senate, the notifica-
tion of proposed sales shall be sent to
the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–39 concerning the Navy’s proposed Let-
ter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Govern-
ment of the Greece for defense articles and
services estimated to cost $600 million. After
this letter is delivered to your office, we plan
to issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
GREGORY M. KAUSNER
(For Charles W. Hooper, Lieutenant
General, USA, Director).
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–39
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of
Greece.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment* $300 million.
Other $300 million.
Total $300 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
Seven (7) MH–60R Multi-Mission Heli-
copters, equipped with the following:
Ten (10) APS–1 53(V) Multi-Mode Radars (7
installed, 3 spares).
Eighteen (18) 1700 GE–401 C Engines (14 in-
stalled, 4 spares).
Seven (7) Airborne Low Frequency System
(ALFS) (7 installed).
Ten (10) AN/AAS–44C(V) Multi-Spectral
Targeting Systems (7 installed, 3 spares).
Eighteen (18) Embedded Global Positioning
System/Inertial Navigation Systems with
Selective Availability/Anti-Spoofing Module
(SAASM) (14 installed, 4 spares).
One-thousand (1,000) AN/SSQ–36/53/62
Sonobuoys.
Two (2) AGM–114 M36–E9 Captive Air
Training Missiles (CATM).
Four (4) AGM–1 14Q Hellfire Training Mis-
siles.
One Hundred (100) Advanced Precision Kill
Weapons System (APKWS) Rockets Thirty
(30) MK 54 Torpedoes.
Twelve (12) M–240D Crew Served Guns.
Twelve (12) GAU–21 Crew Served Guns.
Non-MDE: Also included are eighteen (18)
AN/ARC–210 APX–1990A(C) Radios with
COMSEC (14 installed and 4 spares); twenty-
four (24) AN/AVS–9 Night Vision Devices; ten
(10) AN/APX–123 Identification Friend or Foe
(IFF) transponders (8 installed, 2 spares);
spare engine containers; facilities study, de-
sign, and construction; spare and repair
parts; support and test equipment; commu-
nication equipment; ferry support; publica-
tions and technical documentation; per-
sonnel training and training equipment; U.S.
Government and contractor engineering,
technical and logistics support services; and
other related elements of logistical and pro-
gram support.
(iv) Military Department: Navy (GR–P–
SCK).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid. Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
July 12, 2019.
* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Greece—MH–60R Multi-Mission Helicopters
The Government of Greece has requested
to buy up to seven (7) MH–60R Multi-Mission
Helicopters equipped with ten (10) APS–1
53(V) Multi-Mode Radars (7 installed, 3
spares); eighteen (18) 1700 GE–401 C Engines
(14 installed, 4 spares); seven (7) Airborne
Low Frequency System (ALFS) (7 installed);
ten (10) AN/ AAS–44C(V) Multi-Spectral Tar-
geting Systems (7 installed, 3 spares); eight-
een (18) Embedded Global Positioning Sys-
tem/Inertial Navigation Systems with Selec-
tive Availability/Anti-Spoofing Module
(SAASM) (14 installed, 4 spares); one-thou-
sand (1,000) AN/SSQ–36/53/62 Sonobuoys; two
(2) AGM–114 M36–E9 Captive Air Training
Missiles (CA TM); four (4) AGM–114Q Hellfire
Training Missiles; one Hundred (100) Ad-
vanced Precision Kill Weapons System
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY6.005 S15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4819
July 15, 2019
(APKWS) Rockets; thirty (30) MK 54 Tor-
pedoes; twelve (12) M–2400 Crew Served Guns;
and twelve (12) GAU–21 Crew Served Guns.
Also included are eighteen (18) AN/ARC–210
APX–1990A(C) Radios with COMSEC (14 in-
stalled and 4 spares); twenty-four (24) AN/
AVS–9 Night Vision Devices; ten (10) AN/
APX–123 Identification Friend or Foe (IFF)
transponders (8 installed, 2 spares); spare en-
gine containers; facilities study, design, and
construction; spare and repair parts; support
and test equipment; communication equip-
ment; ferry support; publications and tech-
nical documentation; personnel training and
training equipment; U.S. Government and
contractor engineering, technical and logis-
tics support services; and other related ele-
ments of logistical and program support. The
estimated total case value is $600 million.
This proposed sale will support U.S. for-
eign policy and national security objectives
by helping to improve the security of a
NATO ally, which is an important partner
for political stability and economic progress
in Europe. The MH–60R helicopters will bol-
ster the Hellenic Navy’s ability to support
NATO and remain interoperable with the
U.S. and the NATO alliance.
The proposed sale will improve Greece’s
capability to meet current and future
threats. The MH–60R Multi-Mission Heli-
copter will provide the capability to perform
anti-surface and anti-submarine warfare
missions along with the ability to perform
secondary missions including vertical re-
plenishment, search and rescue, and commu-
nications relay. Greece will have no dif-
ficulty absorbing these helicopters into its
armed forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment will
not alter the basic military balance in the
region.
The principal contractor will be Lockheed
Martin Rotary and Mission Systems in
Owego, New York. There are no known offset
agreements in connection with this potential
sale.
Implementation of this proposed sale will
require the assignment of five (5) additional
U.S. Government personnel and five (5) con-
tractor representatives to Greece.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–39
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. The MH–60R Multi-Mission Helicopter is
employed primarily for anti-submarine and
antisurface warfare missions. The MH–60R
carries several sensors and data links to en-
hance its ability to work in a network-cen-
tric battle group and as an extension of its
home ship/main operating base. The mission
systems consists of the following sensors and
subsystems: an acoustics system consisting
of a dipping sonar, sonobuoys, and acoustics
processor; MultiMode Radar (MMR) with in-
tegrated Identification Friend or Foe (IFF)
interrogator; Radios with COMSEC; Elec-
tronic Support Measures (ESM); Integrated
Self-Defense (ISD); and Multi-Spectral Tar-
geting System (MTS). Also, Night Vision De-
vices (AN/AVS–9) are included for CONOPS
and interoperability with USN. It can carry
AGM–1 14NB/K/N Hellfire missiles and Mk 46/
54 lightweight torpedoes to engage surface
and sub-surface targets. The Hellenic Navy
MH–60R platform will include provisions for
the Mk 54 lightweight torpedo. The MH–60R
weapons system is classified up to SECRET.
Unless otherwise noted below, MH–60R hard-
ware and support equipment, test equipment
and maintenance spares are unclassified ex-
cept when electrical power is applied to
hardware containing volatile data storage.
Technical data and documentation for MH–
60R weapons systems (to include sub-systems
and weapons listed below) are classified up to
SECRET. The sensitive technologies include:
a. The AGM–114 HELLFIRE missile is an
air-to-surface missile with a multi-mission,
multi-target, precision strike capability.
The HELLLFIRE can be launched from mul-
tiple air platforms and is the primary preci-
sion weapon for the United States Army. The
highest level for release of the AGM–114
HELLFIRE is SECRET, based upon the soft-
ware. The highest level of classified informa-
tion that could be disclosed by a proposed
sale or by testing of the end item is SE-
CRET; the highest level that must be dis-
closed for production, maintenance, or train-
ing is CONFIDENTIAL. Reverse engineering
could reveal CONFIDENTIAL information.
Vulnerability data, countermeasures, vulner-
ability/susceptibility analyses, and threat
definitions are classified SECRET or CON-
FIDENTIAL.
b. Advanced Precision Kill Weapon System
(APKWS) laser guided rocket to counter the
fast attack craft and fast inshore attack
craft threat. APKWS hardware is UNCLAS-
SIFIED.
c. The lightweight air launched torpedo
(Mk54) is used for surface and subsurface tar-
gets. The acquisition of Mk54 will include
ancillary equipment and publications.
d. Communications security (COMSEC) de-
vices contain sensitive encryption algo-
rithms and keying material. The purchasing
country has previously been released and
utilizes COMSEC devices in accordance with
set procedures and without issue. COMSEC
devices will be classified up to SECRET
when keys are loaded.
e. Identification Friend or Foe (IFF) (KIV–
78) contains embedded security devices con-
taining sensitive encryption algorithms and
keying material. The purchasing country
will utilize COMSEC devices in accordance
with set procedures. The AN/APX–123 is clas-
sified up to SECRET.
f. GPS/PPS/SAASM—Global Positioning
System (OPS) provides a space-based Global
Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) that
has reliable location and time information in
all weather and at all times and anywhere on
or near the earth when and where there is an
unobstructed line of sight to four or more
OPS satellites. Selective Availability/Anti-
Spoofing Module (SAASM) (AN/PSN–11) is
used by military OPS receivers to allow
decryption of precision OPS coordinates. In
addition, the OPS Antenna System (GAS–I)
provides protection from enemy manipula-
tion of the OPS system. The OPS hardware is
UNCLASSIFIED. When electrical power is
applied, the system is classified up to SE-
CRET.
g. Acoustics algorithms are used to process
dipping sonar and sonobuoy data for target
tracking and for the Acoustics Mission Plan-
ner (AMP), which is a tactical aid employed
to optimize the deployment of sonobuoys and
the dipping sonar. Acoustics hardware is UN-
CLASSIFIED. The acoustics system is classi-
fied up to SECRET when environmental and
threat databases are loaded and/or the sys-
tem is processing acoustic data.
h. The AN/APS–153 multi-mode radar with
an integrated IFF and Inverse Synthetic Ap-
erture (ISAR) provides target surveillance/
detection capability. The AN/APS–153 hard-
ware is UNCLASSIFIED. When electrical
power is applied and mission data loaded, the
AN/APS–153 is classified up to SECRET.
i. The AN/ALQ–210 (ESM) system identifies
the location of an emitter. The ability of the
system to identify specific emitters depends
on the data provided by Hellenic Navy. The
AN/ALQ–210 hardware is Unclassified. When
electrical power is applied and mission data
loaded, the AN/ALQ–210 system is classified
up to SECRET.
j. The AN/AAS–44C(V) Multi-spectral Tar-
geting System (MTS) operates in day/night
and adverse weather conditions. Imagery is
provided by a Forward-Looking Infrared
(FLIR) sensor, a color/monochrome day tele-
vision (DTV) camera, and a Low-Light TV
(LLTV). The AN/AAS–44C(V) hardware is UN-
CLASSIFIED. When electrical power is ap-
plied, the AN/AAS–44C(V) is classified up to
SECRET.
k. Ultra High Frequency/Very High Fre-
quency (UHFNHF) Radios (ARC 210) contain
embedded sensitive encryption algorithms
and keying material. The purchasing coun-
try will utilize COMSEC devices in accord-
ance with set procedures. The ARC–210 hard-
ware is UNCLASSIFIED. When electrical
power is applied and mission data loaded, the
ARC–210 is classified up to SECRET.
l. Advanced Data Transfer System (ADTS)
with Type 1 encryption for data at rest.
m. Satellite Communications Demand As-
signed Multiple Access (SATCOM DAMA),
which provides increased, interoperable com-
munications capabilities with US forces.
SATCOM DAMA hardware is UNCLASSI-
FIED. When electrical power is applied and
mission data loaded these systems are classi-
fied up to SECRET.
2. All the mission data, including sensitive
parameters, is loaded from an off board sta-
tion before each flight and does not stay
with the aircraft after electrical power has
been removed. Sensitive technologies are
protected as defined in the program protec-
tion and anti-tamper plans. The mission data
and off board station are classified up to SE-
CRET.
3. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the specific
hardware and software elements, the infor-
mation could be used to develop counter-
measures or equivalent systems, which
might reduce weapon system effectiveness or
be used in the development of a system with
similar or advanced capabilities.
4. This sale is necessary in furtherance of
the U.S. foreign policy and national security
objectives outlined in the enclosed Policy
Justification. A determination has been
made that Greece can provide the same de-
gree of protection for the sensitive tech-
nology being released as the U.S. Govern-
ment.
5. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal have been authorized for re-
lease and export to Greece.
CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO § 620C(d) OF THE
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1961, AS
AMENDED
Pursuant to Section 620C(d) of the foreign
Assistance Act of 1961, as amended (the Act),
Executive Order 12163 and State Department
Delegation of Authority No. 245–2, I hereby
certify that the furnishing to Greece of seven
MH–60R Multi-Mission Helicopters and re-
lated equipment is consistent with the prin-
ciples contained in Section 620C(b) of the
Act.
This certification will be made part of the
notification to Congress under Section 36(b)
of the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
regarding the proposed sale of the above-
named articles and services and is bused on
the justification accompanying such notifi-
cation, of which such justification con-
stitutes a full explanation.
ANDREA THOMPSON,
Undersecretary of State.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY6.009 S15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4820 July 15, 2019
150TH ANNIVERSARY OF
FRENCHVILLE, MAINE
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, today I
wish to commemorate the 150th anni-
versary of the Town of Frenchville,
ME. As one who was born and raised in
Aroostook County, I am honored to
celebrate the generations of indus-
trious and caring people who have
made Frenchville such a wonderful
place to live, work, and raise families.
The story of Frenchville begins long
before its incorporation in 1869. For
thousands of years, the St. John River
Valley has been the home of the
Maliseet Tribe. French explorers, led
by Samuel de Champlain, first visited
the area in 1604 and established friend-
ly relationships with the Native Ameri-
cans. In the late 1700s, French-speaking
Canadians began settling in the area,
and the Maliseets often provided vital
assistance during the first difficult
winters. These settlements laid the
foundation for the vibrant Acadian cul-
ture that is so important in Maine,
New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and as
far away as Louisiana.
The Acadian settlers created a pros-
perous community. They planted crops,
established lumber and grain mills, and
built schools, churches, and thriving
general stores. Later in the 19th cen-
tury, the people of Frenchville joined
their neighboring towns in connecting
their remote region to the world with
their own hands. Town by town, they
built roads and railroads with pick,
shovel, and wheelbarrow. These trans-
portation networks, combined with
rich soil. made the region an agricul-
tural center, and the potato industry
remains an essential part of the econ-
omy.
The town was incorporated in 1869 as
Dickeyville, in honor of Major William
Dickey, an early civic and political
leader in the region. Two years later,
the name was changed to Frenchville
to recognize the language and origins
of its original settlers. Today, 80 per-
cent of the town’s residents speak
French, and they continue to uphold
the Acadian traditions of great food,
music, and dance, and of close-knit
families and lasting friendships.
(English translation of the statement
made in French is as follows:)
To my Franco-American friends, it is
a pleasure to congratulate you on this
landmark anniversary. Across the gen-
erations, you have worked hard and
worked together to create a commu-
nity that combines your rich heritage
with the values that define our State
and our Nation.
While the people of Frenchville cher-
ish their fascinating history, they
build for the future. Last year, the Dr.
Levesque Elementary School was
named a 2018 National Blue Ribbon Ex-
emplary High Performing School,
marking the second time this out-
standing school received that pres-
tigious recognition. For nearly 50
years, Frenchville and neighboring
communities have joined hands to
make the Northern Aroostook Re-
gional Airport an invaluable transpor-
tation link between the St. John Val-
ley and the world. In addition to the
airport’s important role in economic
development, the volunteer pilots of
the Patient Airlift Service provide a
crucial lifeline to people needing ad-
vanced medical treatment.
The celebration of Frenchville’s 150th
anniversary is not merely about the
passing of time. It is about human ac-
complishment. We celebrate the people
who pulled together, cared for one an-
other, and built a great community.
Thanks to those who came before,
Frenchville, ME, has a wonderful his-
tory. Thanks to those there today, it
has a bright future.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO VERMALENE SMITH
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today
I wish to recognize Vermalene Smith
for her outstanding commitment to
supporting our military, our veterans,
their families, and her community.
Born in Leachville, AR, Vermalene
attended various schools in northeast
Arkansas before furthering her edu-
cation at Memphis State University
where she earned her bachelor’s degree
in accounting and minored in business
management. She utilized her acquired
skills in a successful accounting ca-
reer, as well as a decorated career in
real estate. The combination of knowl-
edge and community involvement she
possessed prepared her for the role she
took with former U.S. Senator Tim
Hutchinson as senior coordinator for
the State of Arkansas. She also went
on to serve Lieutenant Governor Win
Rockefeller as his financial director
and volunteered for the Craighead
County Veterans Service Office before
becoming the county’s full-time vet-
erans service officer in 2009.
In this role, Vermalene plans, orga-
nizes, and directs the activities of the
County Veterans Service office. From
preparing claims for veterans to per-
sonally counseling them and their de-
pendents, she has maintained her devo-
tion to fighting for those who fought
for us at home and abroad. She has
been instrumental in conducting the
annual military ball, an event that at-
tracts hundreds of participants includ-
ing veterans, servicemembers, civic
leaders, and local JROTC cadets and
their guests and has also played an im-
portant role in the Welcome Home
Vietnam Veterans event. Vermalene
serves as an inspiration and example to
us all and has had a positive impact on
countless lives through her diligent ef-
forts and advocacy.
In addition to all of her work for vet-
erans, Vermalene has exemplified what
it means to be a good steward of her
community. Some of her many roles
have included Cub Scout leader, Sun-
day school teacher, and president of
the parent teachers association. She
also founded the Northeast Arkansas
Republican Women and Northeast Ar-
kansas Veterans Action Clergy organi-
zations. Her involvement continues to
impress as she served as chairman of
the Craighead County Republican
Party and 1st congressional District
secretary. Her dedication has enhanced
her community immensely and earned
her many prestigious honors along the
way.
Her numerous awards include Busi-
ness of Professional Women’s Club
Woman of the Year, Million Dollar Pro-
ducer, and the Frank Lady Leadership
Award. It comes as no surprise that she
also received the Customer Service
Award from American Legion Post 53
located in West Memphis, AR, and
American Legion District 5, which in-
cludes the majority of northeast Ar-
kansas.
Vermalene has spent her career
working to advance the needs of vet-
erans and improve Arkansas. Our State
is a better place because of her. I wish
Vermalene well as she begins her well-
deserved retirement.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO ADAM MILLER
∑ Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, today I
recognize Adam Miller, an intern in my
Rapid City, SD, office, for all of the
hard work he has done for me, my
staff, and the State of South Dakota
over the past several weeks.
Adam is a graduate of Canton High
School in Canton, SD. Currently, he is
attending Black Hills State University
in Spearfish, SD, where he is double
majoring in political science and his-
tory. He is a hard worker who has been
dedicated to getting the most out of
his internship experience.
I extend my sincere thanks and ap-
preciation to Adam for all of the fine
work he has done and wish him contin-
ued success in the years to come.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the Committee
on Armed Services.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate
proceedings.)
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on July 12, 2019,
during the adjournment of the Senate,
received a message from the House of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY6.011 S15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4821
July 15, 2019
Representatives announcing that the
Speaker had signed the following en-
rolled bills:
S. 744. An act to amend section 175b of title
18, United States Code, to correct a scriv-
ener’s error.
S. 998. An act to amend the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to ex-
pand support for police officer family serv-
ices, stress reduction, and suicide preven-
tion, and for other purposes.
S. 1749. An act to clarify seasoning require-
ments for certain refinanced mortgage loans,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 866. An act to provide a lactation
room in public buildings.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 3:02 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bill, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 1327. An act to extend authorization
for the September 11th Victim Compensation
Fund of 2001 through fiscal year 2092, and for
other purposes.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
The President pro tempore (Mr.
GRASSLEY) announced that on today,
July 15, 2019, he has signed the fol-
lowing enrolled bills, which were pre-
viously signed by the Speaker of the
House:
S. 744. An act to amend section 175b of title
18, United States Code, to correct a scriv-
ener’s error.
S. 998. An act to amend the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to ex-
pand support for police officer family serv-
ices, stress reduction, and suicide preven-
tion, and for other purposes.
S. 1749. An act to clarify seasoning require-
ments for certain refinanced mortgage loans,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 866. An act to provide a lactation
room in public buildings.
f
ENROLLED BILLS PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, July 15, 2019, she had
presented to the President of the
United States the following enrolled
bills:
S. 744. An act to amend section 175b of title
18, United States Code, to correct a scriv-
ener’s error.
S. 998. An act to amend the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to ex-
pand support for police officer family serv-
ices, stress reduction, and suicide preven-
tion, and for other purposes.
S. 1749. An act to clarify seasoning require-
ments for certain refinanced mortgage loans,
and for other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–1920. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a six-month periodic report on
the national emergency with respect to Leb-
anon that was declared in Executive Order
13441 of August 1, 2007; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–1921. A communication from the Chief
Counsel, Federal Emergency Management
Agency, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Suspension of Community
Eligibility’’ ((44 CFR Part 64) (Docket No.
FEMA–2019–0003)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on July 10, 2019;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–1922. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Use of Truncated
Taxpayer Identification Numbers on Forms
W–2, Wage and Tax Statement, Furnished to
Employees’’ (RIN1545–BN35) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on July
10, 2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–1923. A communication from the Regu-
latory Analyst, Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration, Department of Transpor-
tation, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Incorporation by Ref-
erence; North American Standard Out-of-
Service Criteria; Hazardous Materials Safety
Permits’’ (RIN2126–AC01) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on July
10, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, without amendment:
S. 1420. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to improve the effectiveness of
major rules in accomplishing their regu-
latory objectives by promoting retrospective
review, and for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–
55).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with amendments:
S. 1430. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to prevent fraud by representa-
tive payees (Rept. No. 116–56).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, without amendment:
H.R. 1654. A bill to amend title 44, United
States Code, to modernize the Federal Reg-
ister, and for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–
57).
By Mr. RISCH, from the Committee on
Foreign Relations, with an amendment in
the nature of a substitute and an amendment
to the title and with an amended preamble:
S. Res. 206. A resolution marking the 70th
anniversary of the four Geneva Conventions
of 1949, expressing concern about significant
violations of international humanitarian law
on contemporary battlefields, and encour-
aging United States leadership in ensuring
greater respect for international humani-
tarian law in current conflicts, particularly
with its security partners.
By Mr. RISCH, from the Committee on
Foreign Relations, without amendment:
S. 1945. A bill to amend section 36 of the
Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2776) to
preserve congressional review and oversight
of foreign arms sales, and for other purposes.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. MURPHY (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms.
WARREN, and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 2110. A bill to address food and housing
insecurity on college campuses; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mr. BURR,
and Ms. KLOBUCHAR):
S. 2111. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to provide that it is unlawful to
knowingly distribute private intimate visual
depictions with reckless disregard for the in-
dividual’s lack of consent to the distribu-
tion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. HARRIS (for herself, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. BOOKER, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Mr. SANDERS, and Ms. WAR-
REN):
S. 2112. A bill to enhance the rights of do-
mestic workers, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
SCHUMER, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Mrs. MURRAY, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
COONS, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. LEAHY,
Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. REED, Mr. BEN-
NET, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. SANDERS, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. WYDEN,
Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Ms. ROSEN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. MARKEY, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. WARNER, Mr. KAINE,
Ms. HARRIS, Mr. MURPHY, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Ms. HASSAN, Ms. SMITH,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. KING, Ms. STABENOW, Mr.
BROWN, and Mr. CARPER):
S. 2113. A bill to protect the health and
safety of children in immigration detention,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr. WAR-
NER, Mr. RUBIO, and Mr. COONS):
S. 2114. A bill to provide the legal frame-
work and income tax treatment necessary
for the growth of innovative private financ-
ing options, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Mr.
LEE, Mr. ROMNEY, Mr. ISAKSON, and
Mr. PERDUE):
S. 2115. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to modify the period after re-
tirement for authority of the Department of
Defense to appoint retired members of the
armed forces to positions within the Depart-
ment after retirement; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and
Mr. BOOKER):
S. 2116. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to establish rules for
payment for graduate medical education
(GME) costs for hospitals that establish a
new medical residency training program
after hosting resident rotators for short du-
rations; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. ROMNEY (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, and Ms. COLLINS):
S. 2117. A bill to limit the authority of the
Secretary of Commerce to remove Huawei
Technologies Co. Ltd. from the entity list
maintained by the Bureau of Industry and
Security; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. ROMNEY, Mr.
WARNER, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2118. A bill to prohibit United States
persons from dealing in certain information
and communications technology or services
from foreign adversaries and to require the
approval of Congress to terminate certain
export controls in effect with respect to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY6.023 S15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4822 July 15, 2019
Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mrs. FISCHER:
S. 2119. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to appropriately limit the au-
thority to award bonuses to Federal employ-
ees; to the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself, Mr.
TOOMEY, and Mr. COTTON):
S. 2120. A bill to prohibit the provision of
Federal funds to State and local govern-
ments for payment of obligations, to pro-
hibit the Federal Reserve Banks, the Depart-
ment of the Treasury, and other Federal
agencies from financially assisting State and
local governments that have defaulted on
their obligations, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, and Mr. BOOKER):
S. 2121. A bill to amend the Animal Welfare
Act to restrict the use of exotic and wild ani-
mals in traveling performances; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr.
RUBIO, and Mr. REED):
S. Res. 275. A resolution calling for inter-
national ethical standards in genome editing
research; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Ms. STABENOW:
S. Res. 276. A resolution designating July
15, 2019, as ‘‘National Leiomyosarcoma
Awareness Day’’ and the month of July 2019
as ‘‘National Sarcoma Awareness Month’’; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 9
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
9, a bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the
Food and Drug Administration’s juris-
diction over certain tobacco products,
and to protect jobs and small busi-
nesses involved in the sale, manufac-
turing and distribution of traditional
and premium cigars.
S. 91
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 91, a bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to authorize per
diem payments under comprehensive
service programs for homeless veterans
to furnish care to dependents of home-
less veterans, and for other purposes.
S. 117
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 117, a bill to prohibit discrimi-
nation against individuals with disabil-
ities who need long-term services and
supports, and for other purposes.
S. 261
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING), the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER), the Senator from Mas-
sachusetts (Mr. MARKEY) and the Sen-
ator from South Carolina (Mr. SCOTT)
were added as cosponsors of S. 261, a
bill to extend the authorization of ap-
propriations for allocation to carry out
approved wetlands conservation
projects under the North American
Wetlands Conservation Act through fis-
cal year 2024, and for other purposes.
S. 430
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 430, a bill to extend the
Secure Rural Schools and Community
Self-Determination Act of 2000.
S. 504
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
names of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) and the Senator from
Delaware (Mr. COONS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 504, a bill to amend title
36, United States Code, to authorize
The American Legion to determine the
requirements for membership in The
American Legion, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 511
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) and the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. MCSALLY) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 511, a bill to promote and pro-
tect from discrimination living organ
donors.
S. 546
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 546, a bill to extend au-
thorization for the September 11th Vic-
tim Compensation Fund of 2001
through fiscal year 2090, and for other
purposes.
S. 560
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) and the Senator from
Kansas (Mr. MORAN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 560, a bill to amend the
Public Health Service Act, the Em-
ployee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974, and the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to require that group and
individual health insurance coverage
and group health plans provide cov-
erage for treatment of a congenital
anomaly or birth defect.
S. 569
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
569, a bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to issue regulations re-
lating to commercial motor vehicle
drivers under the age of 21, and for
other purposes.
S. 638
At the request of Mr. CARPER, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 638, a bill to require the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to designate per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances as haz-
ardous substances under the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, Liability Act of 1980,
and for other purposes.
S. 655
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 655, a bill to impose addi-
tional restrictions on tobacco flavors
for use in e-cigarettes.
S. 750
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. GRAHAM) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 750, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to per-
manently extend the new markets tax
credit, and for other purposes.
S. 782
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
782, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve access
to mental health services under the
Medicare program.
S. 852
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the names of the Senator
from Arkansas (Mr. BOOZMAN) and the
Senator from Arkansas (Mr. COTTON)
were added as cosponsors of S. 852, a
bill to provide for the consideration of
a definition of anti-Semitism for the
enforcement of Federal antidiscrimina-
tion laws concerning education pro-
grams or activities.
S. 901
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 901, a bill to amend the Older
Americans Act of 1965 to support indi-
viduals with younger onset Alzheimer’s
disease.
S. 916
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 916, a bill to improve Federal ef-
forts with respect to the prevention of
maternal mortality, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 936
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 936, a bill to repeal the authority
to access on an ongoing basis business
records for foreign intelligence and
international terrorism investigations,
and for other purposes.
S. 964
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 964, a bill to amend the Pa-
tient Protection and Affordable Care
Act to improve cost-sharing subsidies.
S. 1031
At the request of Mr. HAWLEY, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1031, a bill to implement rec-
ommendations related to the safety of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY6.018 S15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4823
July 15, 2019
amphibious passenger vessels, and for
other purposes.
S. 1055
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1055, a bill to amend the
Homeland Security Act of 2002 regard-
ing the procurement of certain items
related to national security interests
for Department of Homeland Security
frontline operational components, and
for other purposes.
S. 1102
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) and the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 1102, a bill to promote secu-
rity and energy partnerships in the
Eastern Mediterranean, and for other
purposes.
S. 1168
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1168, a bill to amend the High-
er Education Act of 1965 to ensure cam-
pus access at public institutions of
higher education for religious groups.
S. 1222
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1222, a bill to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to carry out a pilot
program to provide hospital care and
medical services to veterans in the
Freely Associated States of the Repub-
lic of Palau, the Republic of the Mar-
shall Islands, and the Federated States
of Micronesia, and to conduct a study
on the feasibility and advisability of
establishing regional offices, sub-
offices, contact units, or other subordi-
nate offices of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs in the Freely Associated
States to provide such care and serv-
ices, and for other purposes.
S. 1309
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1309, a bill to identify and combat cor-
ruption in countries, to establish a
tiered system of countries with respect
to levels of corruption by their govern-
ments and their efforts to combat such
corruption, and to assess United States
assistance to designated countries in
order to advance anti-corruption ef-
forts in those countries and better
serve United States taxpayers.
S. 1317
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
CRAPO) and the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) were added as cosponsors
of S. 1317, a bill to facilitate the avail-
ability, development, and environ-
mentally responsible production of do-
mestic resources to meet national ma-
terial or critical mineral needs, and for
other purposes.
S. 1340
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1340, a bill to authorize activities to
combat the Ebola outbreak in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, and
for other purposes.
S. 1553
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1553, a bill to repeal the debt ceiling.
S. 1625
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
ROBERTS) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1625, a bill to promote the deploy-
ment of commercial fifth-generation
mobile networks and the sharing of in-
formation with communications pro-
viders in the United States regarding
security risks to the networks of those
providers, and for other purposes.
S. 1694
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN), the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL), the Senator from
Massachusetts (Mr. MARKEY) and the
Senator from West Virginia (Mrs. CAP-
ITO) were added as cosponsors of S. 1694,
a bill to require any Federal agency
that issues licenses to conduct activi-
ties in outer space to include in the re-
quirements for such licenses an agree-
ment relating to the preservation and
protection of the Apollo 11 landing site,
and for other purposes.
S. 1730
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1730, a bill to direct the
Administrator of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration to
make grants to State and local govern-
ments and nongovernmental organiza-
tions for purposes of carrying out cli-
mate-resilient living shoreline projects
that protect coastal communities by
supporting ecosystem functions and
habitats with the use of natural mate-
rials and systems, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1769
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1769, a bill to require the
Secretary of Energy to establish an off-
shore wind career training grant pro-
gram, and for other purposes.
S. 1807
At the request of Mr. PERDUE, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1807, a bill to improve the funding proc-
ess.
S. 1863
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1863, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of the Interior to conduct a spe-
cial resource study of the sites associ-
ated with the life and legacy of the
noted American philanthropist and
business executive Julius Rosenwald,
with a special focus on the Rosenwald
Schools, and for other purposes.
S. 1974
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1974, a bill to amend the
Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act
of 1978 to establish a renewable elec-
tricity standard, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1993
At the request of Mr. CRAMER, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1993, a bill to restrict Federal
funding for health care entities that do
not respect all human life and patient
rights.
S. 2015
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
Arizona (Ms. MCSALLY) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 2015, a bill to amend the
Higher Education Act of 1965 to direct
the Secretary of Education to develop
a plain language disclosure form for
borrowers of Federal student loans, and
for other purposes.
S. 2054
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN), the Senator from
Arkansas (Mr. COTTON), the Senator
from Louisiana (Mr. KENNEDY) and the
Senator from Arkansas (Mr. BOOZMAN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 2054, a
bill to posthumously award the Con-
gressional Gold Medal, collectively, to
Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods, J. Chris-
topher Stevens, and Sean Smith, in
recognition of their contributions to
the Nation.
S. 2062
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
names of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN), the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. CARDIN) and the Senator
from Connecticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL)
were added as cosponsors of S. 2062, a
bill to prohibit the use of funds for the
2026 World Cup unless the United
States Soccer Federation provides eq-
uitable pay to the members of the
United States Women’s National Team
and the United States Men’s National
Team.
S. 2066
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. BARRASSO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2066, a bill to review United
States Saudi Arabia Policy, and for
other purposes.
S. 2080
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) and the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 2080, a bill to amend the Pub-
lic Health Service Act to increase the
number of permanent faculty in pallia-
tive care at accredited allopathic and
osteopathic medical schools, nursing
schools, social work schools, and other
programs, including physician assist-
ant education programs, to promote
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY6.027 S15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4824 July 15, 2019
education and research in palliative
care and hospice, and to support the
development of faculty careers in aca-
demic palliative medicine.
S. 2083
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN), the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. SMITH), the Senator from
Oregon (Mr. WYDEN), the Senator from
Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO), the Sen-
ator from Ohio (Mr. BROWN), the Sen-
ator from Vermont (Mr. LEAHY) and
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS) were added as cosponsors of S. 2083,
a bill to amend chapter 2205 of title 36,
United States Code, to ensure pay eq-
uity for amateur athletes, and for
other purposes.
S. 2097
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the names of the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. SMITH), the Senator from
Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) and the Senator
from Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2097, a bill to
amend section 287 of the Immigration
and Nationality Act to limit immigra-
tion enforcement actions at sensitive
locations, to clarify the powers of im-
migration officers at such locations,
and for other purposes.
S. 2106
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2106, a bill to amend title 38,
United States Code, to prohibit smok-
ing on the premises of any facility of
the Veterans Health Administration,
and for other purposes.
S. CON. RES. 9
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Con. Res. 9, a concurrent reso-
lution expressing the sense of Congress
that tax-exempt fraternal benefit soci-
eties have historically provided and
continue to provide critical benefits to
the people and communities of the
United States.
S. RES. 120
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 120, a resolution opposing efforts
to delegitimize the State of Israel and
the Global Boycott, Divestment, and
Sanctions Movement targeting Israel.
S. RES. 194
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
names of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI) and the Senator from Ari-
zona (Ms. SINEMA) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 194, a resolution
designating July 30, 2019, as ‘‘National
Whistleblower Appreciation Day’’.
S. RES. 198
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 198, a resolution con-
demning Brunei’s dramatic human
rights backsliding.
S. RES. 205
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. MCSALLY) and the Senator from
Ohio (Mr. BROWN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 205, a resolution ex-
pressing the gratitude of the Senate for
the people who operate or support dia-
per banks and diaper distribution pro-
grams in their local communities.
S. RES. 252
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) and the Senator from Wis-
consin (Ms. BALDWIN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 252, a resolution
designating September 2019 as National
Democracy Month as a time to reflect
on the contributions of the system of
government of the United States to a
more free and stable world.
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. MENENDEZ) and the Senator from
Washington (Ms. CANTWELL) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 252,
supra.
S. RES. 260
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 260, a resolution recognizing
the importance of sustained United
States leadership to accelerating glob-
al progress against maternal and child
malnutrition and supporting the com-
mitment of the United States Agency
for International Development to glob-
al nutrition through the Multi-Sec-
toral Nutrition Strategy.
S. RES. 274
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. KENNEDY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. Res. 274, a resolution express-
ing solidarity with Falun Gong practi-
tioners who have lost lives, freedoms,
and other rights for adhering to their
beliefs and practices, and condemning
the practice of non-consenting organ
harvesting, and for other purposes.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 275—CALL-
ING FOR INTERNATIONAL ETH-
ICAL STANDARDS IN GENOME
EDITING RESEARCH
Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself, Mr.
RUBIO, and Mr. REED) submitted the
following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations:
S. RES. 275
Whereas genome editing enables scientists
to make changes to the genome in organisms
by removing, adding, or replacing genetic
material;
Whereas there is tremendous hope that ge-
nome editing technologies will lead to new
therapies and cures for diseases;
Whereas unintended effects during the de-
velopment of new medical technologies can
stop or delay the development of successful
new therapies;
Whereas pregnancies using genome-edited
human embryos have not been shown to be
safe;
Whereas the Declaration of Helsinki of the
World Medical Association—
(1) was first adopted in 1964;
(2) has been revised over time; and
(3) has provided guidance to the inter-
national community on ethical principles for
medical research involving human subjects;
Whereas there are media reports—
(1) of experiments carried out overseas in
2018 using genome-edited human embryos in
pregnancies;
(2) that those experiments resulted in the
live birth of 2 babies;
(3) that the primary scientist responsible
for those experiments recognized that the ex-
periments were carried out too quickly and
without necessary open dialogue with regu-
lators, the scientific community, and the
public; and
(4) that an additional pregnancy with ge-
nome-edited human embryos is underway;
Whereas the reported experiments in 2018
using genome-edited human embryos in
pregnancies failed to meet the standards of
human research ethics called for in the Dec-
laration of Helsinki;
Whereas the National Academies of
Science, Engineering, and Medicine has con-
cluded that more research and broadly inclu-
sive public deliberation are needed before
clinical trials of germline editing of human
embryos and gametes should be permitted;
Whereas the National Institutes of Health
has declared support for an international
moratorium on clinical application of
germline genome editing and is working with
other Federal agencies, international agen-
cies, health and science organizations, pa-
tient communities, and the public to engage
in a substantive debate about the benefits
and risks of germline genome editing re-
search;
Whereas the World Health Organization
has created an expert advisory committee on
developing standards for the governance and
oversight of human genome editing;
Whereas an international commission has
been convened by the National Academy of
Medicine, the National Academy of Sciences,
and the Royal Society of the United King-
dom to identify the scientific, medical, and
ethical requirements that should be consid-
ered before heritable human genome editing
should proceed; and
Whereas, as of July 2019—
(1) the use of genome-edited human em-
bryos for reproduction is prohibited in many
countries; and
(2) no international agreement exists as to
whether clinical trials using genome-edited
human embryos should proceed: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) opposes the experiments that resulted
in pregnancies using genome-edited human
embryos described in November 2018 media
reports;
(2) recognizes that the question of whether
to proceed with heritable genome editing
touches on all of humanity;
(3) supports the international commission
convened by the National Academy of Medi-
cine, the National Academy of Sciences, and
the Royal Society of the United Kingdom to
develop an international framework regard-
ing human germline editing; and
(4) encourages the Secretary of State to
work with other nations and international
organizations, including the United Nations
and the World Health Organization, to forge
an international consensus regarding the
limits of ethical clinical use of genome-edit-
ed human embryos.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today to introduce a Senate Reso-
lution calling for the international
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:03 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY6.029 S15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4825
July 15, 2019
community to come together and de-
termine the ethical limits of gene-edit-
ing technology to avoid future misuse
like what was recently discovered in
China.
Gene editing is a powerful new tech-
nology that has the potential to lead to
new therapies for devastating and pre-
viously untreatable diseases. Today,
there are already promising clinical
trials using gene-editing technology
that hope to treat cancer, sickle cell
disease and other terrible diseases.
However, like any new technology,
there is potential for misuse and that
is what happened with recent experi-
ments in China. These experiments in-
volving gene-edited human embryos
failed in every measure to meet the
ethical and scientific standards for re-
search with human subjects.
First and foremost, the scientist put
the health of the mother and her chil-
dren at risk by using an unproven tech-
nology without adequate safeguards.
Furthermore, human clinical re-
search must be conducted for a legiti-
mate medical purpose. In this case,
gene-editing was used to prevent the
children from being able to acquire
HIV. There are already safe and effec-
tive ways to prevent HIV infection that
do not involve the use of gene-editing
technology.
In addition, clinical research partici-
pants should never be misled when ob-
taining informed consent. According to
reports, the scientist in charge of the
experiments told the participants that
the study would be testing a new vac-
cine for HIV, which is a gross
mischaracterization of the gene-editing
technology.
Finally, the scientist reportedly pro-
ceeded with the experiments knowing
the genetic changes he created were
different from what he originally in-
tended. As a result, the children likely
possess genetic mutations that did not
undergo any pre-clinical testing and
have never before existed in humans,
leaving their long-term health in ques-
tion.
Moreover, these unethical experi-
ments have the potential to create new
genetic diseases that could be passed
down to future generations.
The international community must
come together to condemn unethical
human experimentation and prevent
this from happening again. No one
country can make this decision alone.
International standards must be estab-
lished to prevent unethical researchers
from moving to whichever country has
the loosest regulations.
Already, the World Health Organiza-
tion and the United States’ National
Academies of Sciences, along with the
Chinese Academy of Sciences, have
begun this important work.
Our resolution makes clear that un-
ethical human experimentation has no
place in a modern society and encour-
ages collaborative international efforts
to continue.
I am proud to introduce this resolu-
tion today. I hope my Senate col-
leagues will join us to ensure that
gene-editing research is conducted in a
responsible and ethical manner moving
forward. Thank you, Mr. President. I
yield the floor.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 276—DESIG-
NATING JULY 15, 2019, AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL LEIOMYOSARCOMA
AWARENESS DAY’’ AND THE
MONTH OF JULY 2019 AS ‘‘NA-
TIONAL SARCOMA AWARENESS
MONTH’’
Ms. STABENOW submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 276
Whereas sarcoma is a rare type of cancer
that arises in the connective tissue of the
body and accounts for approximately 1 per-
cent of all newly diagnosed cancers;
Whereas the National Institutes of Health
designates sarcoma as a rare form of cancer,
and sarcoma contains approximately 70 dif-
ferent subtypes;
Whereas sarcomas are largely resistant to
current chemotherapy agents,
immunotherapy agents, and radiation thera-
pies, posing a formidable challenge for re-
searchers and specialists;
Whereas sarcoma subtypes largely have
not benefitted from immunotherapies be-
cause of the complexity of the DNA,
genomes, and mutations associated with the
many variations in the sarcoma subtype
landscape;
Whereas leiomyosarcoma (referred to in
this preamble as ‘‘LMS’’) is a malignant, ag-
gressive subtype of sarcoma derived from
smooth muscle cells typically of uterine,
gastrointestinal, or soft tissue origin, and
can metastasize to the bone, spine, brain,
and liver;
Whereas the National Institutes of Health
classifies LMS as a rare disease, accounting
for approximately 15 percent of all sarcomas,
and LMS itself encompasses at least 4 dif-
ferent LMS subtypes;
Whereas LMS primarily affects adults
without regard to gender, research and clin-
ical trials remain complicated, and survival
and longevity remain difficult;
Whereas multidisciplinary care coordina-
tion teams, because of their expertise and ex-
perience, are critical to the health of sar-
coma and LMS patients;
Whereas sarcoma and LMS research will
allow medical professionals to improve the
quality of care for affected patients, lead to
better clinical outcomes, and promote longer
survival for patients; and
Whereas increased education and aware-
ness about sarcoma and LMS will contribute
to the well-being of the communities of the
United States: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates July 15, 2019, as ‘‘National
Leiomyosarcoma Awareness Day’’;
(2) designates the month of July 2019 as
‘‘National Sarcoma Awareness Month’’;
(3) recognizes the challenges faced by sar-
coma and leiomyosarcoma patients; and
(4) commends the dedication of organiza-
tions, volunteers, researchers, and caregivers
across the country working to improve the
quality of life of sarcoma and
leiomyosarcoma patients and their families.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 918. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. PAUL)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by Mr. McConnell to Treaty Doc. 114–
1, The Protocol Amending the Convention
between the Government of the United
States of America and the Government of
Japan for the Avoidance of Double Taxation
and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with
respect to Taxes on Income and a related
agreement entered into by an exchange of
notes (together the ‘‘proposed Protocol’’),
both signed on January 24, 2013, at Wash-
ington, together with correcting notes ex-
changed March 9 and March 29, 2013; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 919. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. PAUL)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by Mr. McConnell to Treaty Doc. 112–
1, Protocol Amending the Convention be-
tween the United States of America and the
Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of
Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on
Income, signed at Washington on October 2,
1996, signed on September 23, 2009, at Wash-
ington, as corrected by an exchange of notes
effected November 16, 2010 and a related
agreement effected by an exchange of notes
on September 23, 2009; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 920. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. PAUL)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by Mr. McConnell to Treaty Doc. 114–
1, The Protocol Amending the Convention
between the Government of the United
States of America and the Government of
Japan for the Avoidance of Double Taxation
and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with
respect to Taxes on Income and a related
agreement entered into by an exchange of
notes (together the ‘‘proposed Protocol’’),
both signed on January 24, 2013, at Wash-
ington, together with correcting notes ex-
changed March 9 and March 29, 2013; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 921. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. PAUL)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by Mr. McConnell to Treaty Doc. 113–
4, The Protocol Amending the Convention
between the United States of America and
the Kingdom of Spain for the Avoidance of
Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fis-
cal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
and its Protocol, signed at Madrid on Feb-
ruary 22, 1990; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 922. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. PAUL)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by Mr. McConnell to Treaty Doc. 111–
8, Protocol Amending the Convention be-
tween the Government of the United States
of America and the Government of the Grand
Duchy of Luxembourg for the Avoidance of
Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fis-
cal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
and Capital, signed on May 20, 2009, at Lux-
embourg (the ‘‘proposed Protocol’’) and a re-
lated agreement effected by the exchange of
notes also signed on May 20, 2009; which was
ordered to lie on the table.
SA 923. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. PAUL)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by Mr. McConnell to Treaty Doc. 112–
1, Protocol Amending the Convention be-
tween the United States of America and the
Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of
Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on
Income, signed at Washington on October 2,
1996, signed on September 23, 2009, at Wash-
ington, as corrected by an exchange of notes
effected November 16, 2010 and a related
agreement effected by an exchange of notes
on September 23, 2009; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
SA 924. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. PAUL)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed by Mr. McConnell to Treaty Doc. 113–
4, The Protocol Amending the Convention
between the United States of America and
the Kingdom of Spain for the Avoidance of
Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fis-
cal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY6.020 S15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4826 July 15, 2019
and its Protocol, signed at Madrid on Feb-
ruary 22, 1990; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 918. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
PAUL) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by Mr. MCCON-
NELL to Treaty Doc. 114–1, The Pro-
tocol Amending the Convention be-
tween the Government of the United
States of America and the Government
of Japan for the Avoidance of Double
Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal
Evasion with respect to Taxes on In-
come and a related agreement entered
into by an exchange of notes (together
the ‘‘proposed Protocol’’ ), both signed
on January 24, 2013, at Washington, to-
gether with correcting notes exchanged
March 9 and March 29, 2013; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
In section 1, in the section heading, strike
‘‘DECLARATION AND CONDITIONS’’ and insert
‘‘DECLARATION, CONDITIONS, AND A RESERVA-
TION’’.
In section 1, strike ‘‘declaration of section
2 and the conditions in section 3’’ and insert
‘‘declaration of section 2, the conditions in
section 3, and the reservation in section 4’’.
At the end, add the following:
SEC. 4. RESERVATION.
The advice and consent of the Senate
under section 1 is subject to the following
reservation: In the case of the United States,
the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Arti-
cle XV shall apply as if the Protocol had en-
tered into force on January 1, 2019.
SA 919. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
PAUL) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by Mr. MCCON-
NELL to Treaty Doc. 112–1, Protocol
Amending the Convention between the
United States of America and the
Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance
of Double Taxation with Respect to
Taxes on Income, signed at Washington
on October 2, 1996, signed on September
23, 2009, at Washington, as corrected by
an exchange of notes effected Novem-
ber 16, 2010 and a related agreement ef-
fected by an exchange of notes on Sep-
tember 23, 2009; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
In section 1, in the section heading, insert
‘‘, CONDITIONS, AND A RESERVATION’’ after
‘‘DECLARATION’’.
In section 1, insert ‘‘, the conditions in sec-
tion 3, and the reservation in section 4’’ after
‘‘declaration of section 2’’.
At the end, add the following:
SEC. 4. RESERVATION.
The advice and consent of the Senate
under section 1 is subject to the following
reservation: In the case of the United States,
the provisions of paragraph 2(a) of Article 5
shall apply as if the Protocol had entered
into force on January 1, 2019.
SA 920. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
PAUL) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by Mr. MCCON-
NELL to Treaty Doc. 114–1, The Pro-
tocol Amending the Convention be-
tween the Government of the United
States of America and the Government
of Japan for the Avoidance of Double
Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal
Evasion with respect to Taxes on In-
come and a related agreement entered
into by an exchange of notes (together
the ‘‘proposed Protocol’’ ), both signed
on January 24, 2013, at Washington, to-
gether with correcting notes exchanged
March 9 and March 29, 2013; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
In paragraph 1 of Article 26 of the Conven-
tion, as amended by Article XII of the Pro-
tocol, strike ‘‘such information as is
foreseeably relevant’’ and insert ‘‘such infor-
mation as is individualized and relevant to
an individual investigation’’.
SA 921. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
PAUL) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by Mr. MCCON-
NELL to Treaty Doc. 113–4, The Pro-
tocol Amending the Convention be-
tween the United States of America
and the Kingdom of Spain for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the
Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Re-
spect to Taxes on Income and its Pro-
tocol, signed at Madrid on February 22,
1990; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
In section 1, in the section heading, strike
‘‘DECLARATION AND CONDITIONS’’ and insert
‘‘DECLARATION, CONDITIONS, AND A RESERVA-
TION’’.
In section 1, strike ‘‘declaration of section
2 and the conditions in section 3’’ and insert
‘‘declaration of section 2, the conditions in
section 3, and the reservation in section 4’’.
At the end, add the following:
SEC. 4. RESERVATION.
The advice and consent of the Senate
under section 1 is subject to the following
reservation: In the case of the United States,
the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article XV
shall apply as if the Protocol had entered
into force on January 1, 2019.
SA 922. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
PAUL) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by Mr. MCCON-
NELL to Treaty Doc. 111–8, Protocol
Amending the Convention between the
Government of the United States of
America and the Government of the
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the
Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Re-
spect to Taxes on Income and Capital,
signed on May 20, 2009, at Luxembourg
(the ‘‘proposed Protocol’’ ) and a re-
lated agreement effected by the ex-
change of notes also signed on May 20,
2009; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
In paragraph 1 of Article 28 of the Conven-
tion, as amended by Article I of the Pro-
tocol, strike ‘‘such information as is
foreseeably relevant’’ and insert ‘‘such infor-
mation as is individualized and relevant to
an individual investigation’’.
SA 923. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
PAUL) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by Mr. MCCON-
NELL to Treaty Doc. 112–1, Protocol
Amending the Convention between the
United States of America and the
Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance
of Double Taxation with Respect to
Taxes on Income, signed at Washington
on October 2, 1996, signed on September
23, 2009, at Washington, as corrected by
an exchange of notes effected Novem-
ber 16, 2010 and a related agreement ef-
fected by an exchange of notes on Sep-
tember 23, 2009; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
In paragraph 1 of Article 26 of the Conven-
tion, as amended by Article 3 of the Pro-
tocol, strike ‘‘such information as may be
relevant’’ and insert ‘‘such information as is
individualized and relevant to an individual
investigation’’.
In subparagraph (b) of paragraph 10 of the
Protocol to the Convention, as amended by
Article 4 of the Protocol, strike ‘‘informa-
tion that may be relevant’’ and insert ‘‘infor-
mation that is individualized and relevant to
an individual investigation’’.
SA 924. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr.
PAUL) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed by Mr.
MCConnell to Treaty Doc. 113–4, The
Protocol Amending the Convention be-
tween the United States of America
and the Kingdom of Spain for the
Avoidance of Double Taxation and the
Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Re-
spect to Taxes on Income and its Pro-
tocol, signed at Madrid on February 22,
1990; which was ordered to lie on the
table; as follows:
In paragraph 1 of Article 27 of the Conven-
tion, as amended by Article XIII of the Pro-
tocol, strike ‘‘such information as is
foreseeably relevant’’ and insert ‘‘such infor-
mation as is individualized and relevant to
an individual investigation’’.
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY, JULY 16,
2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Tuesday, July 16;
further, that following the prayer and
pledge, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
approved to date, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day, morning business be closed,
and the Senate proceed to executive
session and resume consideration of
the Phipps nomination. Finally, I ask
that the Senate recess from 12:30 p.m.
until 2 p.m. to allow for the weekly
conference meetings. I further ask that
notwithstanding provisions of rule
XXII, the postcloture time on the
Phipps nomination expire at 3 p.m. to-
morrow; and, finally, that if confirmed,
the motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table and the
President be immediately notified of
the Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:16 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday,
July 16, 2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:03 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY6.033 S15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4827
July 15, 2019
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
MARK T. ESPER, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE, VICE JAMES MATTIS, RESIGNED.
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 9435:
To be brigadier general
COL. LINELL A. LETENDRE
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. JAMES H. DICKINSON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDI-
CATED WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE
AND RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. RICKY L. WADDELL
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 531 AND 716:
To be major
CHRISTOPHER J. WOOD
THE FOLLOWING NAMED INDIVIDUAL FOR APPOINT-
MENT TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant colonel
CHRISTIAN S. FORRER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADES INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR FORCE
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant colonel
SHEVA T. NICKRAVESH
To be major
BRYAN R. BLAZER
LATOYA D. CROCKER
ANGELA M. THORNTON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED INDIVIDUAL FOR APPOINT-
MENT TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant colonel
MICHAEL W. LUOMA
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be major
CAMIE R. LEVIN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be major
STEVE A. ALBRITTON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be major
GARY M. CLARK
STEPHANIE E. STEWART
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY MEDICAL CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTIONS 531 AND 7064:
To be major
CHRISTOPHER D. BARRETT
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY NURSE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTIONS 531 AND 7064:
To be major
RALPHINE R. WALTON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY MEDICAL CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTIONS 531 AND 7064:
To be major
MATTHEW R. CAMPBELL
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY MEDICAL SPECIALIST CORPS UNDER
TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 531 AND 7064:
To be major
JOHN C. ROSS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY MEDICAL CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTIONS 531 AND 7064:
To be major
ROBERT T. BUCKLEY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be major
DAMIEN MCGUIGAN
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant commander
ANTHONY M. HRUBY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES NAVY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 531 AND
8132:
To be lieutenant commander
SALAHHUDIN A. ADENKHALIF
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be commander
BRADLEY D. COLETTI
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant commander
TIMOTHY K. LYNCH
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
DION M. ADAMS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
CHRISTOPHER C. CADY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
ANDREW C. MUELLER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant commander
TYRONE K. POTTER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES NAVY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant commander
FRANCIS C. DAILIG
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant commander
DAVID H. CRAIG III
BYRON B. HOLLOWAY
IN THE MARINE CORPS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR MARINE
CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be major
JOHN D. BARNES
SCOTT W. CATON
JESICCA P. CHAMBERLIN
TROY T. GARLOCK
KENNETH W. KUNZE
LANCE B. MARSHALL
WALTER M. RAINES
JEREMY S. SCHMIDT
BINFORD R. STRICKLAND
KRISTIN M. TORTORICI
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:43 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A15JY6.014 S15JYPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E917
July 15, 2019
RECOGNIZING THE SECOND AN-
NUAL IOWA SAFE SCHOOLS
PRIDE CAMP
HON. CYNTHIA AXNE
OF IOWA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mrs. AXNE. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
celebrate the second annual Pride Camp held
by Iowa Safe Schools. As the largest LGBTQ
summer camp in the nation, Pride Camp is a
crucial experience for LGBTQ youth in the
state of Iowa to take advantage of opportuni-
ties to be creative, learn, grow, network, and
most importantly have fun.
During Pride Month and throughout the
year, I am proud to express my unwavering
support of our LGBTQ community. Too many
young people in the LGBTQ community still
experience discrimination daily, and Pride
Camp offers a safe and supportive environ-
ment to connect with peers and build lasting
bonds. From arts to policy to STEM, camp ac-
tivities give campers daily opportunities to
challenge themselves and build valuable skills.
Pride Camp is an invaluable experience for
LGBTQ youth who may otherwise not have
the same interactions at school or in their
community. By working with fellow campers,
counselors and staff, Pride Camp participants
can work together to build change and leader-
ship for tomorrow. We still have a long way to
go to fulfill our promise of equality, opportunity
and justice for all, and it is important we foster
this generation of change makers.
I am pleased to acknowledge and congratu-
late Iowa Safe Schools on its second annual
Pride Camp, and I wish all attendees a week
full of learning and fun.
f
PAYING TRIBUTE TO AMERICAN
LEGION POST 5 IN DOWNTOWN
COLORADO SPRINGS
HON. DOUG LAMBORN
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. LAMBORN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize American Legion Post 5 in
downtown Colorado Springs on their 100th
Anniversary.
Since its founding, Post 5 has been a con-
sistent advocate for our incredible military
community in Colorado Springs. Post 5 helped
the ‘‘Pikes Peak or Bust’’ Rodeo become a
huge success. Their group led a campaign to
elevate Medal of Honor recipient Floyd K.
Lindstrom’s memory which led to a VA out-
patient clinic being named after him.
American Legion Post 5 is a steadfast advo-
cate for veterans and their families. The group
hosts memorial services, supports homeless
and impoverished veterans by sponsoring food
and toy drives, and is a place for the veterans
community to join together in fellowship to dis-
cuss important issues pertaining to their lives.
As we celebrate our veterans’ service to our
great nation, we must thank this inspiring or-
ganization for their tremendously important
service to our veterans in Colorado’s 5th Con-
gressional District. Please join me in wishing
American Legion Post 5 a happy centennial
anniversary.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE EQUAL
DEFERMENT OPPORTUNITY ACT
HON. GRACE MENG
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Ms. MENG. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
announce the introduction of the Equal
Deferment Opportunity Act and to impress
upon my colleagues the importance of all
servicewomen having equal protections after
childbirth. Current law permits a 12-month
deferment from deployment after an active
duty servicemember gives birth—thereby en-
suring that, before putting their lives on the
line to defend America, servicewomen are
physically recovered during postpartum.
These same protections, however, do not
apply to servicewomen in the Reserves or Na-
tional Guard; my bill would fix this by expand-
ing the 12-month postpartum deployment
deferment to all servicewomen.
Across all branches of the military, women
serve with honor and distinction. Their service
ensures our nation is safe from hostile actors
that seek to do harm to us. Retaining talent is
a critical issue and Congress must ensure the
Defense Department is permitting all members
of the military have equal access to benefits
that allow for critical healthcare needs. As
such, this fix is desperately needed.
I also applaud Chairman SMITH, Ranking
Member THORNBERRY, and my House col-
leagues on the passage of the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020.
This bill represents a clear vision of a national
security strategy that keeps our nation safe,
and advances programs and policies that
prioritize the wellbeing of our servicemembers
and their families. I was especially pleased to
see the adoption of my three amendments
that include:
Permanent Authorization of the Suicide Pre-
vention and Resilience Program: The Suicide
Prevention and Resilience Program provides
members of the Reserves and National Guard
and their families with training in suicide pre-
vention, resilience, and community healing.
Equal Deferment After Childbirth: This provi-
sion extends existing allowances for active
duty servicewomen to defer deployment after
childbirth to all members of the armed serv-
ices, including the Reserves and National
Guard.
Lead Service Lines Report: This requires
the DOD to submit a report on the number of
military installations that may have water lines
made out of lead, and whether DOD has es-
tablished an awareness campaign to inform
servicemembers and their families about them.
I look forward to seeing these amendments
enacted into law. Above all else, we must en-
sure our servicemembers and their families
are fully valued.
f
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
SPEECH OF
HON. ANNA G. ESHOO
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, July 11, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 2500) to authorize
appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of Defense
and for military construction, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes:
Ms. ESHOO. Mr. Chair, I rise in strong sup-
port of Amendment No. 47 to H.R. 2500, the
National Defense Authorization Act of 2020,
an amendment I offered with my good friend
from Nebraska, Mr. Fortenberry.
The Fortenberry-Eshoo amendment de-
clares that the safe return of religious and eth-
nic minorities in Iraq to their ancestral home-
lands, and the restoration of fundamental
human rights to these communities, remains a
priority for the United States.
Iraq is home to some of the oldest Christian
communities in the world, yet less than
200,000 Christians remain in Iraq, down from
1.4 million in 2002.
Christians and other religious and ethnic mi-
norities suffered horrific oppression and vio-
lence beginning with the U.S. invasion of Iraq
in 2003 and again at the hands of ISIS begin-
ning in 2014.
In March 2016, Congress, under the leader-
ship of Mr. Fortenberry and myself, declared
this brutal and system persecution constituted
genocide, one of only three times in history
that Congress has made such a declaration.
Despite efforts by Congress to help religious
and ethnic minorities return to their homelands
in Iraq, harassment and threats from armed
militia groups continue to jeopardize their safe-
ty and long term security.
Congress cannot stand by and watch as
one of the oldest Christian communities in the
world is wiped out. As the daughter of parents
who fled religious persecution in the Middle
East, this is personal to me.
I’m pleased Amendment No. 147 was in-
cluded in En Bloc 5 to H.R. 2500, which will
help ensure Congress does not give up on
these vulnerable populations who continue to
face persecution and oppression in Iraq.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15JY8.001 E15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E918 July 15, 2019
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, on July 12,
2019, I was unable to attend votes because I
was attending to official business. Had I been
present, I would have voted: NAY on Roll Call
No. 462; YEA on Roll Call No. 463; YEA on
Roll Call No. 464; YEA on Roll Call No. 465;
YEA on Roll Call No. 466; YEA on Roll Call
No. 467; YEA on Roll Call No. 468; YEA on
Roll Call No. 469; YEA on Roll Call No. 470;
and YEA on Roll Call No. 471.
f
RETIREMENT OF HELENA BERGER,
A CHAMPION OF AMERICANS
WITH DISABILITIES
HON. STENY H. HOYER
OF MARYLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I rise to mark
the twenty-ninth anniversary next week of the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) being
signed into law by President George H.W.
Bush on July 26, 1990. This transformative
and trailblazing piece of legislation, which was
supported by both Democrats and Repub-
licans, serves as a lasting reminder that Con-
gress can bring so much opportunity for our
people when we join together for the greater
good. The ADA calls us to continue to act on
behalf of millions of Americans with disabilities
to ensure that their hopes, dreams, and aspi-
rations are as valid and attainable as those of
every other American. It remains a powerful
expression of Congress’s determination that
disability rights are civil rights.
On July 23, advocates for those with disabil-
ities are also pausing to celebrate and recog-
nize the many contributions of Helena Berger,
President & CEO of the American Association
of People with Disabilities (AAPD), who will be
retiring this August after thirty years of service
and leadership in the disability rights move-
ment. Ms. Berger held several leadership posi-
tions with AAPD prior to becoming President &
CEO, including Executive Director, Chief Op-
erating Officer, and Executive Vice President.
Under Ms. Berger’s leadership, AAPD has sig-
nificantly increased its reach and impact
across the country, including through the ex-
pansion of AAPD’s renowned Summer Intern-
ship Program, which cultivates the next gen-
eration of leaders in the disability rights move-
ment.
I join in thanking Ms. Berger for her years
of service to AAPD and the broader disability
rights community, for her tireless efforts to
fight for representation and economic opportu-
nities for Americans with disabilities, and for
ensuring that AAPD can continue to advocate
on their behalf for years to come. I hope all of
my colleagues who value and celebrate what
the ADA represents will join me in paying trib-
ute to Ms. Berger for her leadership and wish-
ing her all the best in her retirement.
SUPPORTING THE NATIONAL DE-
FENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR
FISCAL YEAR 2020
HON. GILBERT RAY CISNEROS, JR.
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. CISNEROS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to express. my gratitude that the House
has approved H.R. 2500, the National De-
fense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal
Year FY) 2020. The bill contains many much-
needed and valuable provisions and I am
proud to have had the opportunity to work with
Chairman Smith as well as Democratic and
Republican members of the Armed Services
Committee to secure them. I urge these provi-
sions to be maintained through the conference
process.
H.R. 2500 is a boon for transition assistance
that servicemembers rely upon when they
leave the military. I am proud to have secured
bipartisan language to assist active-duty re-
servists and national guardsmen, veterans,
their dependents, and Gold Star families apply
for and secure jobs in the civilian workforce.
Specifically, the provision would help states
across the nation expand or establish a pilot
program to provide job placement assistance
and related employment services to those
servicemembers, veterans, and their families.
As a veteran myself, I understand firsthand
the challenges servicemembers, and their
families, face when they enter the civilian
workforce, and I am proud to have been able
to secure provisions to assist these heroes as
they transition to civilian life. Similarly, I am
proud to have fought for and secured lan-
guage calling on the Department of Defense
to provide separating servicemembers with a
comprehensive and individualized statement of
benefits listing the benefits to which each
servicemember is entitled and directing them
to modernize the DD214 form that will facili-
tate better connectivity with veterans that have
separated from the military. Additionally, at my
request, H.R. 2500 requires the Department of
Defense to review recent Transition Assist-
ance Program reforms and provide a progress
report on implementation to date. I look for-
ward to receiving this report so that Congress
may determine how to best improve upon the
program and ensure our servicemembers are
receiving the guidance and services they need
to succeed when they transition to civilian life.
Finally, I am pleased that H.R. 2500 includes
language from my bill, H.R. 2944, the TALENT
Act, which directs the Department of Defense
to create a two-way exchange program be-
tween the Department’s acquisition workforce
and the private sector. The program will en-
able Department personnel, including military
officers, to gain private sector experience and
bring best practices they have learned back to
the Department. Such a program brings bene-
fits to the Department and to the individuals
who may seek civilian employment after they
conclude their military service.
Another area of importance I worked to ad-
dress in H.R. 2500 is improving access to and
outcomes in military health. I am proud to
have secured language in the bill to extend
and expand an ongoing pilot program jointly
run with the U.S. Air Force and Department of
Veterans Affairs under the Transition Assist-
ance Program that educates transitioning serv-
icewomen about women’s health care at the
VA and encourages female servicemembers
to participate. Furthermore, I worked with the
Armed Services Committee to include lan-
guage in the bill to direct the Department of
Defense to create a comprehensive policy for
mental health care across several key ele-
ments: pain management, opioid addiction,
suicide prevention, and post-traumatic stress
disorder. I would also like to note that I
worked with colleagues to respond to the dis-
turbing reports of hazardous and unhealthy
privatized military housing at installations
across the nation. H.R. 2500 includes lan-
guage to ensure safe privatized military hous-
ing through the creation of a tenant’s bill of
rights, prohibition on the use of non-disclosure
agreements in connection with entering into,
continuing, or terminating a lease for a hous-
ing unit, establishment of a dispute resolution
process, and creation of an electronic work
order system. Finally, I am also happy to state
that my colleagues and I were also able to se-
cure language in H.R. 2500 encouraging the
Department of Defense to accelerate research
and development into technology or equip-
ment solutions to eliminate the need for open
air burn pits and establish long-term solutions
for toxic waste disposal.
As a Latino and former officer in the Navy,
I am proud to have worked to secure lan-
guage in H.R. 2500 that will improve diversity
and inclusion in the Department of Defense. I
know firsthand the benefits a diverse leader-
ship can have on the force. Moreover, I be-
lieve a diverse military force reflects our val-
ues as a democratic society and provides the
United States with a strategic advantage. To
that end, I secured language in the bill to di-
rect the Department of Defense to develop a
new strategic plan for diversity and inclusion
and worked with my colleagues to secure pro-
visions to improve research capacity at His-
toric Black Colleges and Universities. Addition-
ally, I was happy to support language during
the Committee markup of H.R. 2500, under
the leadership of Representative Jackie
Speier, to require gender integration of Marine
Corps basic training at Parris Island and San
Diego. The Marine Corps is the only remaining
military service that does not integrate basic
training and it is time the Corps caught up to
the other services in this regard. Finally, this
bill includes an amendment—offered by myself
and several colleagues and adopted on the
House floor—to require that qualifications for
eligibility to serve in an armed force account
only for the ability of an individual to meet
gender-neutral occupational standards and not
include any criteria relating to the race, color,
national origin, religion, or sex (including gen-
der identity or sexual orientation) of an indi-
vidual. We cannot stand for bans on individ-
uals, including transgender individuals, serving
in the armed forces purely because of who
they are.
I also worked to ensure H.R. 2500 includes
provisions to addresses sexual assault in the
military. I was troubled to learn of the findings
in 2018 Department of Defense annual report
on sexual assault in the military. According to
the report, 20,500 service members—13,000
women and 7,500 men-across the Army,
Navy, Marines, Air Force and the National
Guard experienced ‘‘contact or penetrative
sexual assault’’ while serving in the military in
2018—an increase from 14,900 in 2016. That
is simply unacceptable. I am proud to have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A15JY8.002 E15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E919
July 15, 2019
secured language in H.R. 2500 that extends
the Defense Advisory Committee on Investiga-
tion, Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual As-
sault (DAC-IPAD) for an additional 5 years
and expands its mandate to cover restorative
justice models and interpretation of the Rules
for Courts-Martial 1001(c) that affect sexual
assault survivors. I also fought for and passed
a provision to direct the Department of De-
fense to provide a report on how the Depart-
ment can establish a clear standard for victims
and victims’ counsel to have access to all non-
privileged court filings and related materials
derived directly from and pertaining directly to
the victim such that victims’ rights can be en-
forced. Additionally, I am proud to have sought
language to address the issue of protective or-
ders—the FY 2020 NDAA now requires unit
commanders to notify civilian authorities of the
issuance of a military protective order against
a member of the Armed Forces and would re-
quire unit commanders to notify a receiving
unit of the issuance of a military protective
order in the event a member is transferred to
another unit. And I am happy to have helped
secure language to create the new Defense
Advisory Committee for the Prevention of Sex-
ual Misconduct and I cosponsored an adopted
amendment that prohibits the Department of
Defense from contracting with companies that
do not have a sexual harassment policy that
penalizes instances of sexual harassment.
Another key challenge H.R. 2500 tackles is
climate change. I am grateful that language I
requested to have the Department of Defense
explore the possibility of maintaining plug-in
hybrid and electric government vehicle fleet on
defense installations and building a microgrid
infrastructure to support them was included in
the bill. The Department of Defense must do
its part to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
and this language moves the Department in
that direction. I am also pleased that the bill
includes provisions to require all proposals for
military construction projects to consider long-
term changes in environmental conditions,
mandate the Department of Defense to report
on progress towards meeting the goal of 25
percent renewable energy for military facilities
by 2025, and direct the Secretary of Defense
to develop a climate vulnerability and risk as-
sessment tool.
Puerto Rico recently felt the impact of cli-
mate change’s most severe forces in Hurri-
cane Maria, and I am proud to have cospon-
sored language led by Representative Nydia
Velázquez that was included in H.R. 2500 that
will support Puerto Rico’s recovery by increas-
ing the value of Puerto Rican subcontractors
in the federal government’s contracting goal.
Increasing the value of Puerto Rican sub-
contractors will incentivize the contracting and
subcontracting of Puerto Rican businesses—
supporting the Puerto Rican economy and
business as it recovers from Hurricane Maria.
H.R. 2500 also includes language to help
shape a foreign policy that is consistent with
American values. I was happy to work with my
colleagues to increase oversight and trans-
parency of civilian casualties resulting from
strikes outside areas of active hostilities and
direct the Department of Defense to work with
a federally funded research and development
center to conduct an independent assessment
of processes and procedures related to civilian
casualties. Additionally, I was proud to co-
sponsor adopted amendments that tackled pri-
ority foreign policy challenges that our nation
faces. These amendments reasserted con-
gressional authority to authorize the use of
force, including vis-à-vis Iran, and called for an
end of war declaration and peace agreement
that will formally and responsibly end the Ko-
rean war.
I would also like to note that the FY 2020
NDAA includes important education related
provisions. I am grateful to see the amend-
ment I cosponsored with several of my col-
leagues to enable the Secretary of Defense to
make grants to Department of Defense
schools or those with Junior Reserve Officer
Training Corps programs to support world lan-
guage study was included in the bill. I am also
proud to have secured language in the bill to
direct the Secretary of Defense to explore how
the Department may carry out a program
under which the Secretary makes grants, on a
competitive basis, to eligible entities to carry
out STEM educational events for military com-
munities across the United States.
In conclusion, Madam Speaker, H.R. 2500
is a strong defense bill that supports our
troops, protects our nation, and reflects Amer-
ican values. I was proud to vote in favor of
this bill and encourage my colleagues in the
House and Senate to maintain these important
provisions through the conference process.
f
COMMEMORATING THE ONE HUN-
DREDTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
TOWN OF NORTH HARMONY
HON. TOM REED
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
commemorate the one hundredth anniversary
of the Town of North Harmony.
The original town of Harmony was the larg-
est town in Chautauqua County, comprised of
approximately eighty-six square miles. In order
to ensure the efficient administration of the
town’s affairs, the County saw fit to create a
new town. On December 19, 1918, the Chau-
tauqua County Board of Supervisors passed
an act to establish the Town of North Har-
mony. The Town became official on January
1, 2019, dividing the original town of Harmony
in two.
Whether they are lifelong residents or new
in town, the citizens of North Harmony love
their town. When asked for their favorite
memories of the town, they provided a variety
of answers. Some recalled fun times spent on
Lake Chautauqua, while others recounted
community celebrations like Asheville Days.
For some, growing up in North Harmony
brought back fond memories spent with family
and tractor rides with a grandparent.
One hundred years as a community and a
town is certainly a cause for celebration. I con-
gratulate the Town of North Harmony for with-
standing the tests of time and look forward to
many more years of North Harmony providing
a community for our friends and neighbors.
Given the above, I ask that this Legislative
Body pause in its deliberations and join me to
celebrate the Town of North Harmony’s one
hundredth anniversary.
SUPPORT OF H.R. 2500, THE NA-
TIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT
HON. PETER A. DeFAZIO
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, last Friday
I voted in support of H.R. 2500, the National
Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal
Year (FY) 2020.
While I have consistently opposed this legis-
lation in previous years and still have con-
cerns about a number of provisions included
in this year’s legislation—including yet another
spending increase to an already bloated Pen-
tagon budget—this legislation also contains
numerous policy priorities that I strongly sup-
port and which have not been included in re-
cent Republican-led NDAAs.
First, this legislation grants our men and
women in uniform a well-deserved pay raise of
3.1 percent—the largest pay raise for our
troops since the last Democratic House major-
ity in 2010. Those who serve in uniform con-
tinue to make extraordinary sacrifices for our
country and the very least we can do is grant
them a pay raise.
I am pleased that this legislation also in-
cludes numerous provisions that require the
Department of Defense (DoD) to address the
existential threat of climate change, including
updating military construction standards to
promote energy and climate resilience. It also
requires DoD to report on its progress towards
meeting the goal of 25 percent renewable en-
ergy for military facilities by 2025.
Additionally, I am pleased that this legisla-
tion prevents the president from diverting de-
fense funding to pay for an unnecessary bor-
der wall, prohibits funding for the deployment
of dangerous low-yield nuclear weapons, nul-
lifies President Trump’s discriminatory military
transgender ban, and helps protect our vet-
erans from being taken advantage of by pred-
atory, for-profit colleges. Moreover, it ends the
unfair Survivor Benefit Plan (SBP)/Indemnity
Compensation (DIC) offset—also known as
the ‘‘widow’s tax’’—which currently reduces
spouse survivor benefits by an average of
$1,250 per month. I am also strongly sup-
portive of the inclusion of twelve weeks of paid
family and medical leave for all federal em-
ployees.
This legislation also includes several provi-
sions to strengthen our national security, in-
cluding requiring the DoD to enhance our
election security, countering Russian aggres-
sion and election interference, enhancing se-
curity cooperation with our allies in Europe
and Asia, and protecting against the increas-
ing risk of cyber attacks.
I have always advocated for strengthening
Congress’s constitutional authority to declare
war and limiting the president’s authority to
engage in armed conflict without the consent
of Congress. That’s why I voted in support of
amendments to prevent the president from
using unauthorized force against Iran, to pro-
hibit U.S. support to and participation in the
Saudi-led coalition’s military operations in
Yemen, and to repeal the long-outdated 2002
authorization for the use of military force
(AUMF) in Iraq. I am proud that these amend-
ments passed with bipartisan support.
This year I have once again introduced leg-
islation to amend the War Powers Resolution
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A15JY8.005 E15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E920 July 15, 2019
of 1973 and reassert Congress’s constitutional
war powers. I have also consistently sup-
ported legislation to repeal the 2001 AUMF,
which the Pentagon uses to continue to justify
the 18 years our troops have been fighting in
the Middle East. President Trump has sent
troops to Syria, Yemen, and elsewhere without
seeking a new AUMF, which in my view is a
violation of the War Powers Resolution.
Furthermore, I am pleased that this legisla-
tion accelerates closure of the Guantanamo
Bay detention facility by prohibiting new de-
tainees and allowing transfer of detainees to
secure facilities in the United States. This un-
necessary facility costs almost $450 million
each year to house 40 prisoners and has
been used as a top recruiting tool by terrorists.
The prison at Guantanamo Bay has been a
black eye for the United States, eroding rela-
tionships with our allies, undermining U.S.
missions abroad, and putting U.S. citizens and
our troops at risk of retaliation.
However, I believe this legislation could
have made responsible cuts to our defense
budget without jeopardizing the safety of our
troops or undermining our national security.
For years, Congress has continued to in-
crease the Pentagon’s budget despite over-
whelming evidence of its waste and abuse of
taxpayer money. This year’s legislation—with
its outrageous top line defense budget of $733
billion—is yet another example of Congress’s
habit of increasing the defense budget every
year.
I have long supported a financial audit of
the Pentagon. Unlike every other federal
agency, the DoD has yet to pass a financial
audit. In November 2018, the Pentagon spec-
tacularly failed its first full audit, which high-
lighted numerous examples of waste and
abuse. While I am pleased that this year’s
NDAA requires an annual audit of the DoD in
order to help identify waste, it is ridiculous to
provide the Pentagon a massive spending in-
crease—as this bill does—when the Pentagon
cannot even account for how it spends tax-
payer money.
In particular, I have always opposed the
DoD’s Overseas Contingency Operation
(OCO) account, a fiscally irresponsible fund
that is not counted in the budget, recklessly
adds to our mounting debt, and has no con-
gressional oversight. OCO is a Pentagon
slush fund that gives a blank check to fund
endless wars that Congress hasn’t authorized.
That’s why I co-led an amendment to cut OCO
funding in the bill by approximately 25 percent.
I am disappointed that this amendment failed
to pass.
The bottom line is that fiscal responsibility
and accountability at the Pentagon would
allow for funds to be better spent supporting
the needs of our troops, meeting our obliga-
tions to veterans, and ensuring our legitimate
defense needs are prioritized. I strongly en-
courage my Senate colleagues to keep the
strong provisions included in the House NDAA
and not water the bill down.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I regret-
tably missed votes on Friday, July 12, 2019. I
had intended to vote ‘‘yes’’ on vote 468, ‘‘yes’’
on vote 469, ‘‘yes’’ on vote 470, ‘‘yes’’ on 471,
‘‘no’’ on vote 472, ‘‘yes’’ on vote 473, and
‘‘yes’’ on vote 474.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF VIET BAO
FOUNDATION’S 20TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF WRITING ON AMERICA
AWARDS
HON. ALAN S. LOWENTHAL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. LOWENTHAL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in honor of Viet Bao Daily News and
Viet Bao Foundation to recognize and cele-
brate the 20th Anniversary of the Writing on
America Awards.
Founded 27 years ago in Little Saigon, Cali-
fornia, Viet Bao Daily News serves as one of
the main Vietnamese media outlets rep-
resenting the voice of the Vietnamese Amer-
ican community in the United States. Today,
Viet Bao coverage has reached Vietnamese
communities in remote areas including those
in Southern California; Northern California; Se-
attle, Washington; Houston, Texas; Louisiana;
and Portland, Oregon. The main editorial of-
fice is in the heart of Little Saigon in West-
minster, California.
Viet Bao Foundation, a non-profit organiza-
tion, was founded to support Viet Bao Daily
News’ mission, to promote Vietnamese cul-
ture, literature, language, and arts. The Writing
on America Essay Contest is one of many
programs that the foundation currently man-
ages and run to support this mission.
Writing on America was established on Sep-
tember 1999, with the first Awards Ceremony
held at the Richard Nixon Presidential Library
in Yorba Linda, California on November 29,
2000. From there on, there has been a new
story published every day on Viet Bao and
Viet Bao Online publications.
A Writing on America Anthology, including
600 plus pages is published yearly. The US
Congress, in its July 28, 2010 meeting, offi-
cially commended Viet Bao for the cultural and
historical values achieved by the American
Writing Program. In 2016, the Writing on
America Anthology officially entered the Li-
brary of Congress for all Americans to enjoy
and treasure.
The Writing on America Awards is an Essay
Contest held annually, which draws several
thousand participants. Started in August 1999,
in paying tribute to America, Viet Bao asked
their readers to share their ‘‘American Dream’’
stories.
Since then, writers from across the country
have been sending in their stories retelling
their early and hardship days in America as
well as their successful stories in achieving
their American dreams. The selected stories
are published daily on Viet Bao, Vietbao.com
website and on the annual anthology title
‘‘Writing on America’’.
Celebrating its 20th anniversary, the Writing
on America Awards has published a total of
22 editions, including more than 14,000 pages
of stories, from thousand of writers. Writing on
America anthology is known as a book of ‘‘live
history from thousand writers’’.
In addition to the official publication by Viet
Bao, thousands of articles were also repeat-
edly posted on Vietnamese and foreign lan-
guage websites and books, many of which
were reprinted. Regardless of the number of
readers, the total impressions on Viet Bao
website alone is over 800 million. Some au-
thors have a record of over 1 million impres-
sions. Nearly 5,800 articles of thousands of
writers about America are now available on
Vietbao.com. The response and support from
the community over the last 20 years have
been tremendously significant.
Today, Viet Bao offers annual cash prizes
up to $35,000 to the essay winners, including
one first prize winner worth $10,000 in cash,
and many other category prizes worth of
$35,000 in cash.
This year, when Viet Bao celebrates its 20th
anniversary, the award-winning writings enter
its 12th anniversary collection, becoming the
longest-standing writing contest ever in the Vi-
etnamese literature award history of the Viet-
namese community abroad as well as in the
country.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, on July 11,
2019, I was unable to attend votes because I
was out of town on official business. Had I
been present, I would have voted: YEA on
Roll Call No. 438; YEA on Roll Call No. 439;
YEA on Roll Call No. 440; YEA on Roll Call
No. 441; YEA on Roll Call No. 442; YEA on
Roll Call No. 443; YEA on Roll Call No. 444;
YEA on Roll Call No. 445; YEA on Roll Call
No. 446; YEA on Roll Call No. 447; YEA on
Roll Call No. 448; YEA on Roll Call No. 449;
YEA on Roll Call No. 450; YEA on Roll Call
No. 451; YEA on Roll Call No. 452; YEA on
Roll Call No. 453; YEA on Roll Call No. 454;
YEA on Roll Call No. 455; YEA on Roll Call
No. 456; YEA on Roll Call No. 457; and YEA
on Roll Call No. 458.
f
TRIBUTE TO JOHN MITCHELL
HON. JOHN B. LARSON
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. LARSON of Connecticut. Madam
Speaker, I include in the RECORD the following
Op–Ed in tribute to the late John Mitchell of
South Windsor, Connecticut.
[From the Hartford Courant]
WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE? RUN FOR
OFFICE. YES, YOU.
(By Kevin Rennie)
Local political parties will nominate their
slates of candidates for November’s munic-
ipal elections this month. In a few commu-
nities, there will be ferocious contests for
some positions. Democratic races for mayor
in some of the state’s largest cities, Bridge-
port, Hartford and New Haven, look competi-
tive as the September primaries grow nearer.
Those are the exceptions.
In most towns, politics is mercifully a
civic good more than it is a secular religion.
Some communities continue to enjoy our
New England tradition of electing members
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY8.007 E15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E921
July 15, 2019
to a wide range of local boards and commis-
sions. That requires a lot of candidates. An-
other tradition, minority representation,
guarantees no political party gets to elect
every member of a town council, board of se-
lectmen or board of education. Our law seeks
to encourage a variety of voices in local gov-
ernment.
Political parties in many towns struggle to
find enough candidates to fill their slates.
The hyperpartisanship that mars our na-
tional politics recedes in many communities
seeking citizen volunteers to manage local
affairs. Plenty of parties will welcome unaf-
filiated voters onto their tickets for munic-
ipal elections.
If you get your news from cable television,
you may properly think that much of con-
temporary politics is an endless series of
screaming matches. Town politics does not
often descend into the bear pit. Go to a
meeting of your local planning and zoning
commission and you will not be able to tell
the Democrats from the Republicans. It’s a
collection of citizens trying to manage or at-
tract development to their community. If
you can spot the nuances of a traffic study or
possess some ideas on how a town can man-
age a decline in the number of school-age
children it will educate in the next decade,
welcome.
As a candidate for local office, you’ll be
more a part of a team than a member of a
fire-breathing partisan tribe. The desire to
serve will be your platform. In most in-
stances, a campaign for a town office comes
with few complications. Almost everyone
wins. In some towns with a nine-member
board of education, for example, there are
only ten candidates. Minority representation
rules have been adopted to give no party
more than five members. Only one of the ten
candidates, assuming a full slate by each
party and no third party candidates, will
lose. And there are plenty of other places for
that person to serve in community govern-
ment.
I’ve saved the best reason for last. You will
meet wonderful people whose friendship will
endure after your service concludes. I was re-
minded of this gift on Monday when John
Mitchell, South Windsor’s beloved former
mayor, died. Mitchell, 84, may have been our
community’s longest performer of good
deeds.
Born in Manchester, he lived and worked
in South Windsor for most of his adult life.
He started a fuel oil business as a young
man, and it thrived through the unfailing
melding of enterprise, knowledge and a
buoyant personality. He served on the town
council for more than a decade and enjoyed
two terms as mayor in the 1980s, a time of
historic growth in town.
Mitchell’s service to others was not lim-
ited to elective office. He remained active in
the local chamber of commerce and was a
stalwart in the Rotary Club for decades. He
loved community events. Almost 40 years
ago, he thought that since so many straw-
berries grew on the shrinking numbers of
South Windsor farms, there ought to be a
June festival, and local Republicans ought to
create it. I can attest to the amount of work
a strawberry festival requires. Mitchell’s en-
thusiasm made it impossible to do anything
but enjoy the challenge. The strawberry fes-
tival has long been what he envisioned: an
annual June Saturday that thousands have
enjoyed.
Mitchell was active in providing college
scholarships to local students as recently as
last month. We’ll never know the vast num-
ber of people he lifted and encouraged with
his private generosity. We helped with a few
local campaigns in the past decade, and I was
reminded of his joy in the battle. His sense of
humor grew sharper, and he displayed a rare
wonderment at growing older.
So think about running for something. You
will help your town. If you are very lucky,
you will get to know someone like John
Mitchell.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JOHN H. RUTHERFORD
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker, I was
unavailable and missed Roll Call Vote 465.
Had I been present, I would have voted Nay
on Roll Call No. 465.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF JOHNNY (SAL)
GARDNER
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise to recognize Mr. Johnny (Sal) Gardner
and his coaching career.
Staring in 1967, Coach Sal has devoted his
life to his community coaching the city’s youth
in football, baseball and basketball.
During his years as the head football coach
at Oxford, he achieved over 225 wins and had
a 49-game winning streak from 1999 to 2005.
He also coached baseball for 47 years
where he won or tied for the area champion-
ship four times, had numerous playoff appear-
ances and coached over 550 athletes, includ-
ing my children, during his tenure there. He
won two state championships in youth base-
ball in 1985 and 1990.
Madam Speaker, please join me in thanking
Coach Sal for his dedication to our local
youth.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, due to an
error, I voted ‘‘nay’’ on Roll Call 460 (Amash
of Michigan Part B Amendment No. 50 to H.R.
2500). I intended to vote ‘‘yea’’.
f
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE OF THE
HONORABLE ROSS PEROT AND
HIS MONUMENTAL IMPACT ON
OUR NATION
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the life of the Honorable Ross
Perot and his monumental impact on our na-
tion.
Mr. Perot is well known for being a wildly-
successful, self-made businessman who ran
for President twice, the first time receiving a
recorded-breaking 19% of the vote as an inde-
pendent candidate. Today, I would like to rec-
ognize him for his unparalleled service and
sacrifice on behalf of our country’s military.
Mr. Perot is a graduate of the United States
Naval Academy. Following his service, Mr.
Perot joined International Business Machines
(IBM), which led him to create the extremely
successful company, Electronic Data Systems.
Mr. Perot was responsible for many other
breakthroughs and innovations in the industry.
Mr. Perot made a point to hire former military
personnel and based his management style
on his military training. Mr. Perot continued to
be an active advocate for our servicemembers
and veterans, becoming one of the most out-
spoken advocates for our Prisoners of War
(POWs). In fact, Mr. Perot was asked by then-
Secretaty of State Henry Kissinger to lead the
fight on behalf of our POWs, a project he
spearheaded by personally chartering two jets
filled with medical supplies and the wives of
POWs still in Vietnam. His efforts directly led
to many POWs being released in 1973 and re-
turned to the United States.
Over the course of his life, Mr. Perot re-
ceived countless honors for his work. In 2009,
he was recognized by the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs for his tireless efforts on behalf
our nation’s veterans, and received honorary
status in the Army and Marine Corps. Mr.
Perot was also named an honorary Green
Beret and is one of only fourteen honorary
members of the Army’s famous 75th Ranger
Regiment.
Of personal note, I’m especially grateful for
all Mr. Perot did for our soldiers and families
at Fort Bragg, the largest military installation in
the world, located in North Carolina’s 8th Con-
gressional District. Mr. Perot donated millions
of dollars to the Airborne & Special Operations
Museum, and has donated his time, resources
and devotion to assisting projects at the U.S.
Army John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Cen-
ter and School at Fort Bragg.
While we mourn his passing, Mr. Perot will
be remembered for his impeccable character,
determination and generosity. I have a deep
admiration and profound appreciation for all he
accomplished and I am inspired by his exam-
ple to ensure we take care of those who so
bravely served our nation.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
recognizing the life of the Honorable Ross
Perot.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. KEVIN BRADY
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. BRADY. Madam Speaker, on July 12,
2019, I was unavoidably detained and was not
able to vote. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 472; ‘‘nay’’ on roll-
call No. 473; and ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 474.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY8.011 E15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E922 July 15, 2019
COMMENDING HARTSELLE POLICE
OFFICERS ROBERT BAKER AND
ROGER SPEAKE, LIEUTENANT
ROBERT FINN, AND HARTSELLE
UTILITIES EMPLOYEE STEPHEN
JOHNSON FOR BRAVE, LIFE-SAV-
ING ACTIONS
HON. MO BROOKS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize Hartselle Police Offi-
cers Robert Baker and Roger Speake,
Hartselle Police Lieutenant Robert Finn, and
Hartselle Utilities employee Stephen Johnson
for their brave, life-saving actions on February
22, 2019.
In the early morning hours of February
22nd, Officers Baker and Speake, and Lieu-
tenant Finn responded to a house fire. Upon
their arrival at the home, they found the fire
was spreading quickly and a woman with lim-
ited-mobility was trapped. Thankfully, Hartselle
Utilities employee Stephen Johnson, who had
been working nearby, was already on the
scene. As a team, Baker, Speake, Finn, and
Johnson, risking their safety, broke down a
fence at the side of the house and success-
fully evacuated the woman from her bedroom
window with only minutes to spare before the
house was completely engulfed in flames.
Madam Speaker, in the face of imminent
danger to their own lives, Officers Baker and
Speake, Lieutenant Finn, and Mr. Johnson,
acted decisively and selflessly, saving the life
of our fellow community member.
I commend Officers Baker and Speake,
Lieutenant Finn, and Mr. Johnson for their
courageous actions in service to others.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. SAM GRAVES
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam Speaker,
on July 12, 2019, I missed a series of Roll
Call votes. Had I been present, I would have
voted YEA on No. 461, 462, 472, and 474. I
would have voted NAY on No. 459, 460, 463,
464, 465, 466, 467, 468, 469, 470, 471, and
473.
f
IN HONOR OF THE LIFE OF CAP-
TAIN (RET.) KENNETH GRIFFITH
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I rise to recognize the life of Captain (Ret.)
Kenneth Griffith who passed away on July 5,
2019. A Full Military Honors graveside service
will take place at 10:00 a.m. on Saturday, July
20, 2019, at Crook Cemetery in Ohatchee.
Kenneth is survived by his beloved wife of
62 years, Sandra (Bowman) Griffith; three
daughters, Keli Griffith, Kendra G. Hollaway,
and Kerri G. Ladd; seven grandchildren and
eleven great-grandchildren.
He was born in Blue Mountain on January
29, 1940, and grew up in Anniston, Alabama.
After graduating from Anniston High School,
he joined the U.S. Army. He began his career
with the Military Police at Ft. McClellan and
was stationed throughout the Southeast and in
Europe. His final station was in Cu Chi, north-
east of Saigon, with the 25th Infantry Division.
On the ninth time he was shot down by the
enemy, while defending his load of wounded
casualties, the front bubble of the helicopter
was shattered by gunfire, grievously wounding
both himself and his co-pilot who passed out.
Griffith fought on and succeeded in flying his
disabled helicopter back to camp, accom-
plishing a controlled crash landing before suc-
cumbing to his own wounds.
For his heroism he was awarded the third
highest military honor, the Silver Star. He was
also awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross
with Oak Leaf Cluster after a seven-hour heli-
copter battle with Viet Cong guerillas. He was
recommended for the Medal of Honor by his
commanding officer. During his military service
he also received the Air Medal with 6 Oak
Leaf Clusters, Purple Heart with 1 Oak Leaf
Cluster, Army Aviator Badge, National De-
fense Service Medal, Vietnam Campaign
Medal with three stars, Vietnam Service
Medal, Good Conduct Medal with two loops
and the National Defense Medal.
After completing physical rehabilitation due
to the loss of his leg in combat, Capt. Griffith
officially retired and returned to his hometown.
Griffith chose Jacksonville State University to
continue his education where he completed a
Bachelor of Science in Psychology in 1974, a
Master of Public Administration in Criminal
Justice in 1975 and a Master of Science in
Personnel Counseling in 1976 from Jackson-
ville State University.
Griffith was a Master Mason and long-time
member of Golden Springs Baptist Church.
Told that the loss of his leg would limit his
physical capabilities, he took great satisfaction
in proving the doctors wrong. He went on to
teach his children how to water and snow ski,
playing and coaching them in several sports.
Lovingly referred to as ‘The Captain’ or ‘Cap’
by everyone, he will be forever remembered
as a loving and devoted man.
Madam Speaker, please join me in honoring
his life of service.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF WILLIS
JOHNSON
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize and congratulate Wil-
lis Johnson for his induction into the 2019
Texas Radio Hall of Fame.
Mr. Johnson spent the majority of his career
as a program manager and radio talk show
host for the Dallas-based KKDA–AM. He used
his show to advocate on behalf of the African
American community in Dallas, highlighting
critical issues that disproportionately affected
our community and providing a platform for
underrepresented voices.
In addition to his career in radio, Mr. John-
son is the CEO of JBJ Management—a public
affairs firm specializing in business to govern-
ment community engagement. He is also a re-
cipient of the Lifetime Leadership Award from
the Dallas Business Journal for his exceptional
social and civic service.
Mr. Johnson will join a distinguished crowd
of inductees into the Texas Radio Hall of
Fame including Walter Cronkite, Verne
Lundquist, and Willie Nelson, to name a few.
I am pleased to recognize the achievements
of Mr. Johnson and wish him continued suc-
cess. His contributions to the Dallas commu-
nity are truly immeasurable.
f
RECOGNIZING JOHN DICUS’
SERVICE TO TOPEKA
HON. STEVE WATKINS
OF KANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. WATKINS. Madam Speaker, today I rise
to recognize a man that embodies everything
it means to be a Kansan, and a Topekan. As
the Topeka Capitol-Journal recently high-
lighted, John Dicus has made himself a fixture
in the Topeka community. While some decide
to take their talents elsewhere, John decided
to use his talents to better his hometown.
John has taken it upon himself to lead the
charge of revitalizing our downtown area, most
notably a $2.5 million dollar investment in the
Evergy Plaza. John has taken action on his vi-
sion for Topeka and the city is better because
of it. I know John shares the same sense of
pride for his hometown as I do. Keep up the
great work. He is making us all proud.
f
HONORING MARK B. GRIER
HON. DONALD M. PAYNE, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, congratula-
tions to Mark B. Grier as he retires from an
outstanding 25 year career at Prudential,
which I am proud to note is headquartered in
the 10th District of New Jersey.
Mark is the Vice Chairman of Prudential and
has overseen the Finance, Risk Management,
Chief Investment, Corporate Actuarial, Global
Business and Technology Solutions depart-
ments and functions. Mark joined Prudential
as Chief Financial Officer in May of 1995 and
was named Vice Chairman just six years later
in 2002. Since that time Mark has been the
company’s intellectual leader when it comes to
positively and constructively engaging with
regulators at both the state and federal levels,
and with the Congress.
I have enjoyed working with Mark over the
years on an array of public policy matters that
were critically important to my district, state,
and our nation. I was fortunate to always have
the benefit of his insight and experience when
debating complex financial services policy
challenges, and I appreciate his willingness to
reliably serve as a resource to me and my col-
leagues.
Beyond his commitment to excellence in
corporate governance and public policy, Mark
also ensured that Prudential was always a
good corporate citizen. During his tenure as
Vice Chairman and member of the Board of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A15JY8.017 E15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E923
July 15, 2019
Directors, Prudential has maintained and ex-
panded its commitment to the city that it has
always called home with over $1 billion do-
nated to Newark through impact investing,
grants to non-profits, and more. Mark has also
been very active in education reform and
chaired an organization called ‘‘Achieve’’,
which is committed to making sure every stu-
dent graduates from high school ready to suc-
ceed in the college or career of their choice.
I am confident that Mark will continue to
serve as a leading voice for the industry and
I look forward to seeing his contributions and
success within his future endeavors. I con-
gratulate Mark again on an extraordinary ca-
reer, and wish him all the best as he begins
his retirement.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I was
not present to vote on July 11, 2019 and July
12, 2019 due to a family obligation.
Had I been present for roll call No. 473 on
passage of H.R. 2500, the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020, I would
have voted AYE.
Had I been present for roll call No. 474 on
passage of H.R. 1327, the Never Forget the
Heroes: James Zadroga, Ray Pfeifer, and Luis
Alvarez Permanent Authorization of the Sep-
tember 11th Victim Compensation Fund Act, I
would have voted YEA.
f
RECOGNIZING THE EXTRAOR-
DINARY ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE
LEGENDARY UNITED STATES
WOMEN’S NATIONAL TEAM IN
WINNING THE 2019 WORLD CUP
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, as
the representative of the 18th Congressional
District of Texas, home of the Houston Dash,
and a die-hard soccer fan, I rise to commemo-
rate the historic performance of the United
States Women’s National Soccer Team in the
2019 Women’s World Cup.
These women brought honor and glory to
our country through their dominant perform-
ance in the tournament, defeating a gallant
team from The Netherlands, 2–0, in the cham-
pionship match on July 7, 2019, in Lyon,
France.
During this World Cup, the United States
Women’s National Team set many records, in-
cluding the most goals scored (26) in a single
World Cup.
The United States Women’s National Team
also set the record for the most goals ever
scored in a single match, scoring 13 against
Thailand.
This was also the largest margin of victory
in World Cup history.
Jill Ellis, the coach of the United States
Women’s National Team, became the first
Women’s National Team coach to win two
World cup titles, and the first American coach
to do so.
Madam Speaker, I wish to congratulate
Meghan Rapinoe, Captain of the United States
Women’s National Team, for winning the
Golden Ball Award for the best player in the
tournament, and the Golden Boot Award for
most goals scored in the least amount of time
on the pitch.
I also congratulate team captain Alex Mor-
gan for winning the Silver Boot Award for most
goals scored in a longer period of time, and to
Rose Lavelle for the Bronze Ball Award for her
extraordinary contributions to the success of
the American team throughout the tournament.
Madam Speaker, the glory brought to our
country by this remarkable cohort of accom-
plished women could not have occurred had it
not been for the passage in 1972 of the land-
mark Title IX of the Civil Rights Act, which
prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in
any federally-funded educational program or
activity.
Title IX has given generations of women
and girls the opportunity to participate in many
extracurricular programs, but it has especially
opened the door for women to participate in
athletics.
Title IX also extended the opportunity for
women to compete at the next level, on high-
ly-skilled and highly-competitive college teams.
Without Title IX, many women and girls
would have been forced to give up their
dreams after high school.
The opportunity for women’s soccer players
to compete at the collegiate level opened the
doors for the creation of the Women’s National
Team.
And, as demonstrated earlier this month in
the 2019 World Cup, when given the oppor-
tunity to compete, American women will suc-
ceed.
Madam Speaker, superior performance
should be recognized and rewarded.
In the 2019 World Cup, the United States
Women’s National Team set the record for
winning the most World Cups of any women’s
team.
The inaugural Women’s World Cup occurred
in 1991, and since then the United States
Women’s National Team has won four of the
eight tournaments.
Let me repeat that: The United States Wom-
en’s National Team has won half of all the
World Cups in history.
During this same time period, the Men’s Na-
tional Team has not won a single World Cup.
Yet, even after winning the 2019 World Cup,
the members of the United States Women’s
National team will earn $31,000 less than the
Men’s team, which lost in the first knock-out
round in 2014 World Cup and failed even to
qualify for the 2018 World Cup.
This pay disparity is outrageous and inde-
fensible, and led members of the United
States Women’s National team to challenge
this pay disparity in court action, which is now
pending.
Madam Speaker, at a minimum, our wom-
en’s team should be paid equally for equal
work, as is mandated by the Equal Pay Act
and other civil rights laws.
In addition, Congress should amend the Lilly
Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 to address pro-
fessional athletics, where women and men
compete in the same sports, but play for dif-
ferent teams in different leagues.
Instead, they are receiving inferior pay for
superior work.
But despite all of the obstacles they faced,
our national team still achieved immortality
through their legendary feats in the 2019
Women’s World Cup.
I thank all the members of the United States
Women’s National Team for inspiring the next
generation of female athletes to follow their
dreams and reach for the stars.
While they are doing that, it is incumbent for
us in Congress to do all that is necessary to
ensure that this generation of female athletes,
and the next, have no barriers preventing
them from manifesting the greatness which
lies within them.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, July 15, 2019
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Madam
Speaker, I intended to vote yes on amend-
ment number 50 by Representative JUSTIN
AMASH to the National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (H.R. 2500).
I should have voted YEA on Roll Call No.
460.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, July
16, 2019 may be found in the Daily Di-
gest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
JULY 17
9:15 a.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine unprece-
dented migration at the United States
southern border, focusing on bipartisan
policy recommendations from the
Homeland Security Advisory Council.
SD–342
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
Subcommittee on Economic Policy
To hold hearings to examine economic
mobility, focusing on whether the
American dream is in crisis.
SD–538
Special Committee on Aging
To hold hearings to examine combating
robocall fraud, focusing on using
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15JY8.022 E15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E924 July 15, 2019
telecom advances and law enforcement
to stop scammers and protect seniors.
SD–562
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine National
Aeronautics and Space Administration
plans for deep space exploration, focus-
ing on the Moon to Mars.
SH–216
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine electric bat-
tery production and waste, focusing on
opportunities and challenges.
SD–406
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine pending
nominations.
SD–226
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of Michelle A. Bekkering, of the
District of Columbia, to be an Assist-
ant Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development.
SD–419
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Subcommittee on Federal Spending Over-
sight and Emergency Management
To hold hearings to examine the Feder-
ally incurred cost of regulatory
changes and how such changes are
made.
SD–342
Committee on Indian Affairs
Business meeting to consider S. 886, to
amend the Omnibus Public Land Man-
agement Act of 2009 to make the Rec-
lamation Water Settlements Fund per-
manent, and S. 2071, to repeal certain
obsolete laws relating to Indians.
SD–628
JULY 18
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Business meeting to consider pending
military nominations.
SR–222
10 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine export con-
trol reform implementation, focusing
on outside perspectives.
SD–538
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
Subcommittee on Water and Power
To hold hearings to examine opportuni-
ties to increase water storage and con-
servation through rehabilitation and
development of water supply infra-
structure, including S. 1570, to provide
flexibility to allow greater aquifer re-
charge, S. 1932, to support water infra-
structure in Reclamation States, and
S. 2044, to amend the Omnibus Public
Land Management Act of 2009 to estab-
lish an Aging Infrastructure Account,
to amend the Reclamation Safety of
Dams Act of 1978 to provide additional
funds under that Act, to establish a re-
view of flood control rule curves pilot
project within the Bureau of Reclama-
tion.
SD–366
Committee on the Judiciary
Business meeting to consider S. 1273, to
amend title 17, United States Code, to
establish an alternative dispute resolu-
tion program for copyright small
claims, S. 1883, to improve the prohibi-
tions on money laundering, and the
nominations of Douglas Russell Cole,
and Matthew Walden McFarland, both
to be a United States District Judge
for the Southern District of Ohio, Rob-
ert Anthony Molloy, to be Judge for
the District Court of the Virgin Is-
lands, and Kea Whetzal Riggs, to be
United States District Judge for the
District of New Mexico.
SD–226
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe
To receive a briefing to examine truth,
reconciliation, and healing toward a
unified future.
RHOB–2167
10:30 a.m.
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry
To hold hearings to examine agricultural
research and 2018 Farm Bill implemen-
tation.
SR–328A
2 p.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
To hold closed hearings to examine cer-
tain intelligence matters.
SH–219
JULY 23
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the United
States’ interests in the Freely Associ-
ated States.
SD–366
2:30 p.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Competition
Policy and Consumer Rights
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
enforcement of the antitrust laws.
SD–226
JULY 24
10:30 a.m.
Committee on Rules and Administration
To hold oversight hearings to examine
the Government Publishing Office, Of-
fice of the Inspector General.
SR–301
JULY 25
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the impor-
tance of energy innovation to economic
growth and competitiveness.
SD–366
JULY 30
2:30 p.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
the United States Copyright Office.
SD–226
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M15JY8.000 E15JYPT1
D838
Monday, July 15, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S4813–S4827
Measures Introduced: Twelve bills and two resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 2110–2121, and
S. Res. 275–276. Pages S4821–22
Measures Reported:
S. 1420, to amend title 5, United States Code, to
improve the effectiveness of major rules in accom-
plishing their regulatory objectives by promoting
retrospective review. (S. Rept. No. 116–55)
S. 1430, to amend title 5, United States Code, to
prevent fraud by representative payees, with amend-
ments. (S. Rept. No. 116–56)
H.R. 1654, to amend title 44, United States
Code, to modernize the Federal Register. (S. Rept.
No. 116–57)
S. Res. 206, marking the 70th anniversary of the
four Geneva Conventions of 1949, expressing con-
cern about significant violations of international hu-
manitarian law on contemporary battlefields, and en-
couraging United States leadership in ensuring
greater respect for international humanitarian law in
current conflicts, particularly with its security part-
ners, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute and with an amended preamble.
S. 1945, to amend section 36 of the Arms Export
Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2776) to preserve congres-
sional review and oversight of foreign arms sales.
Page S4821
Phipps Nomination—Agreement: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of Peter Joseph
Phipps, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Third Circuit. Pages S4815–16
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 53 yeas to 40 nays (Vote No. EX. 204), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S4816
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 10 a.m., on Tuesday,
July 16, 2019; and that notwithstanding the provi-
sions of Rule XXII, the post-cloture time on the
nomination expire at 3 p.m., on Tuesday, July 16,
2019. Page S4826
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Mark T. Esper, of Virginia, to be Secretary of De-
fense.
1 Air Force nomination in the rank of general.
2 Army nominations in the rank of general.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, Marine
Corps, and Navy. Page S4827
Messages from the House: Pages S4820–21
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S4821
Executive Communications: Page S4821
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S4822–23
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S4824–25
Additional Statements: Page S4820
Amendments Submitted: Pages S4825–26
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—204) Page S4816
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 6:16 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, July
16, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks of
the Majority Leader in today’s Record on page
S4826.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15JY9.REC D15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D839
July 15, 2019
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 14 pub-
lic bills, H.R.3751–3764; and 2 resolutions, H. Res.
489–490, were introduced. Pages H5824–25
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H5825–27
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H. Res. 491, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 3494) to authorize appropriations for fis-
cal year 2020 for intelligence and intelligence-related
activities of the United States Government, the
Community Management Account, and the Central
Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability Sys-
tem, and for other purposes; relating to the consider-
ation of House Report 116–125 and an accom-
panying resolution; relating to the consideration of
measures disapproving of the sales, exports, or ap-
provals pursuant to the Arms Export Control Act;
and providing for consideration of the resolution (H.
Res. 489) condemning President Trump’s racist
comments directed at Members of Congress (H.
Rept. 116–154); and
H. Res. 492, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 582) to provide for increases in the Fed-
eral minimum wage, and for other purposes (H.
Rept. 116–155). Page H5824
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Gomez to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H5777
Recess: The House recessed at 12:16 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Page H5779
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Archbishop Anoushavan Tanielian,
Armenian Apostolic Church of America, New York,
NY. Page H5779
Recess: The House recessed at 2:05 p.m. and recon-
vened at 2:47 p.m. Page H5780
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
United States-Northern Triangle Enhanced En-
gagement Act: H.R. 2615, amended, to support the
people of Central America and strengthen United
States national security by addressing the root causes
of migration from El Salvador, Guatemala, and Hon-
duras; Pages H5780–86
United States Agency for International Develop-
ment Branding Modernization Act: H.R. 2744, to
authorize the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development to prescribe
the manner in which programs of the agency are
identified overseas, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 414
yeas to 1 nay, Roll No. 475; Pages H5786–87, H5812–13
Condemning the attack on the AMIA Jewish
Community Center in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in
July 1994 and expressing the concern of the
United States regarding the continuing, 25-year-
long delay in the resolution of this case and en-
couraging accountability for the attack: H. Res.
441, condemning the attack on the AMIA Jewish
Community Center in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in
July 1994 and expressing the concern of the United
States regarding the continuing, 25-year-long delay
in the resolution of this case and encouraging ac-
countability for the attack; Pages H5787–89
Condemning the attacks on peaceful protesters
and supporting an immediate peaceful transition
to a civilian-led democratic government in Sudan:
H. Res. 432, amended, condemning the attacks on
peaceful protesters and supporting an immediate
peaceful transition to a civilian-led democratic gov-
ernment in Sudan, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 414
yeas to 1 nay, Roll No. 476; Pages H5789–93, H5813–14
Recognizing widening threats to freedoms of the
press and expression around the world, reaffirm-
ing the centrality of a free and independent press
to the health of democracy, and reaffirming free-
dom of the press as a priority of the United States
in promoting democracy, human rights, and good
governance in commemoration of World Press Free-
dom Day on May 3, 2019: H. Res. 345, amended,
recognizing widening threats to freedoms of the
press and expression around the world, reaffirming
the centrality of a free and independent press to the
health of democracy, and reaffirming freedom of the
press as a priority of the United States in promoting
democracy, human rights, and good governance in
commemoration of World Press Freedom Day on
May 3, 2019; Pages H5793–96
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘Re-
sponding to widening threats to freedoms of the
press and expression around the world, reaffirming
the centrality of a free and independent press to the
health of democracy, and reaffirming freedom of the
press as a priority of the United States in promoting
democracy, human rights, and good governance on
World Press Freedom Day’’; Page H5796
Saudi Arabia Human Rights and Account-
ability Act of 2019: H.R. 2037, amended, to en-
courage accountability for the murder of Washington
Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-
nay vote of 405 yeas to 7 nays, Roll No. 477;
Pages H5796–H5800, H5814
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15JY9.REC D15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D840 July 15, 2019
Condemning the Government of Saudi Arabia’s
continued detention and alleged abuse of women’s
rights activists: H. Res. 129, amended, condemning
the Government of Saudi Arabia’s continued deten-
tion and alleged abuse of women’s rights activists;
Pages H5800–02
Rescuing Animals With Rewards Act of 2019:
H.R. 97, to amend the State Department Basic Au-
thorities Act of 1956 to authorize rewards for
thwarting wildlife trafficking linked to transnational
organized crime; Page H5802
Cambodia Democracy Act of 2019: H.R. 526,
amended, to promote free and fair elections, political
freedoms, and human rights in Cambodia;
Pages H5802–05
Access to Sufficient Capital for Everyone in
Natural Disaster areas Act of 2019: H.R. 277,
amended, to adjust collateral requirements under the
Small Business Act for disaster loans; Pages H5805–06
Amending the Small Business Act to require the
Small Business and Agriculture Regulatory En-
forcement Ombudsman to create a centralized
website for compliance guides: H.R. 2142, to
amend the Small Business Act to require the Small
Business and Agriculture Regulatory Enforcement
Ombudsman to create a centralized website for com-
pliance guides; Pagess H5806–07
Small Business Administration Cyber Aware-
ness Act: H.R. 2331, to require an annual report on
the cybersecurity of the Small Business Administra-
tion; Pages H5807–09
Small Business Development Center Cyber
Training Act of 2019: H.R. 1649, to amend the
Small Business Act to require cyber certification for
small business development center counselors; and
Pages H5809–10
Clarifying the Small Business Runway Exten-
sion Act: H.R. 2345, amended, to amend the Small
Business Act to clarify the intention of Congress that
the Administrator of the Small Business Administra-
tion is subject to certain requirements with respect
to establishing size standards for small business con-
cerns. Pages H5810–12
Recess: The House recessed at 5:25 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H5812
Recess: The House recessed at 8:44 p.m. and recon-
vened at 10:22 p.m. Page H5823
Quorum Calls—Votes: Three yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H5812–13, H5813–14, and H5814. There
were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 10:24 p.m.
Committee Meetings
OVERCROWDING AND PROLONGED
DETENTION AT CBP FACILITIES
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Immi-
gration and Citizenship held a hearing entitled
‘‘Overcrowding and Prolonged Detention at CBP Fa-
cilities’’. Testimony was heard from Diana R. Shaw,
Assistant Inspector General for Special Reviews and
Evaluations, Office of Inspector General, Department
of Homeland Security.
VIOLATIONS OF THE HATCH ACT UNDER
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION, PART II:
KELLYANNE CONWAY
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Violations of the Hatch Act
Under the Trump Administration, Part II: Kellyanne
Conway’’.
DAMON PAUL NELSON AND MATTHEW
YOUNG POLLARD INTELLIGENCE
AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR
2020; RAISE THE WAGE ACT; RESOLUTION
RECOMMENDING THAT THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES FIND WILLIAM P.
BARR, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE
UNITED STATES, AND WILBUR L. ROSS,
JR., SECRETARY OF COMMERCE, IN
CONTEMPT OF CONGRESS FOR REFUSAL
TO COMPLY WITH SUBPOENAS DULY
ISSUED BY THE COMMITTEE ON
OVERSIGHT AND REFORM; CONDEMNING
PRESIDENT TRUMP’S RACIST COMMENTS
DIRECTED AT MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 3494, the ‘‘Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew
Young Pollard Intelligence Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020’’; H.R. 582, the ‘‘Raise the Wage
Act’’; a Resolution Recommending that the House of
Representatives find William P. Barr, Attorney Gen-
eral of the United States, and Wilbur L. Ross, Jr.,
Secretary of Commerce, in Contempt of Congress for
Refusal to Comply with Subpoenas Duly Issued by
the Committee on Oversight and Reform; and H.
Res. 489, condemning President Trump’s racist
comments directed at Members of Congress. The
Committee granted, by record vote of 8–4, a rule
providing for consideration of H.R. 3494, the
‘‘Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young Pollard
Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 2018,
2019, and 2020’’, H. Res.—(H. Rept. 116–125), the
Resolution Recommending that the House of Rep-
resentatives find William P. Barr, Attorney General
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15JY9.REC D15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D841
July 15, 2019
of the United States, and Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., Sec-
retary of Commerce, in Contempt of Congress for
Refusal to Comply with Subpoenas Duly Issued by
the Committee on Oversight and Reform, and H.
Res. 489, Condemning President Trump’s racist
comments directed at Members of Congress. The
rule provides for consideration of H.R. 3494, the
‘‘Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young Pollard
Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020’’, under a structured rule. The rule provides
one hour of general debate equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.
The rule waives all points of order against consider-
ation of the bill. The rule provides that an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the
text of Rules Committee Print 116–22, modified by
the amendment printed in Part A of the report, shall
be considered as adopted and the bill, as amended,
shall be considered as read. The rule waives all
points of order against provisions in the bill, as
amended. The rule makes in order only those further
amendments printed in Part B of the Rules Com-
mittee report. Each such amendment may be offered
only in the order printed in the report, may be of-
fered only by a Member designated in the report,
shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the
time specified in the report equally divided and con-
trolled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not
be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject
to a demand for division of the question. The rule
waives all points of order against the amendments
printed in Part B of the report. The rule provides
one motion to recommit with or without instruc-
tions. The rule provides that if House Report
116–125 is called up by direction of the Committee
on Oversight and Reform, all points of order against
the report shall be waived and it shall be considered
as read. The rule provides for consideration of the
resolution accompanying House Report 116–125
under a closed rule. The rule provides one hour of
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the Committee on
Oversight and Reform. The rule waives all points of
order against consideration of the resolution accom-
panying the report. The rule provides that the reso-
lution accompanying the report shall be considered
as read. The rule provides that a Senate joint resolu-
tion, or a House joint resolution reported by the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, prohibiting a pro-
posed sale, export, or approval under section 36 of
the Arms Export Control Act shall be privileged if
called up by the chair of the Committee on Foreign
Affairs one day after the Majority Leader announces
an intention that the House consider it. The joint
resolution shall be considered as read. All points of
order against the joint resolution and against its con-
sideration are waived. The joint resolution is debat-
able for 20 minutes, or for one hour on demand of
the chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in
each case equally divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking member of the Committee on Foreign
Affairs. One motion to recommit is provided. The
rule provides that Sections 36(b)(3), 36(c)(3)(B), and
36(d)(5)(B) of the Arms Export Control Act shall not
apply in the House during the remainder of the One
Hundred Sixteenth Congress. The rule provides for
consideration of H. Res. 489, Condemning President
Trump’s racist comments directed at Members of
Congress, under a closed rule. The rule provides one
hour of general debate equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee on the Judiciary. Finally, the rule
provides that the resolution shall be considered as
read. The Committee granted, by record vote of 8–4,
a structured rule providing for consideration of H.R.
582, the ‘‘Raise the Wage Act’’. The rule provides
one hour of general debate equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee on Education and Labor. The rule
waives all points of order against consideration of the
bill. The rule provides that the amendment in the
nature of a substitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor now printed in the
bill, modified by the amendment printed in part A
of the report of the Committee on Rules accom-
panying this resolution, shall be considered as adopt-
ed. The rule provides that the bill, as amended, shall
be considered as read. The rule waives all points of
order against provisions in the bill, as amended. The
rule makes in order the further amendment printed
in Part B of the report, if offered by the member
designated in the report, which shall be considered
as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in
the report equally divided and controlled by the pro-
ponent and an opponent, and shall not be subject to
a demand for division of the question. The rule
waives all points of order against the amendment
printed in the report. Finally, the rule provides one
motion to recommit with or without instructions.
Testimony was heard from Chairman Schiff, Chair-
man Cummings, Chairman Scott of Virginia, and
Representatives Nunes, Pence, Jordan, Foxx, Rooney
of Florida, Collins of Georgia, and Raskin.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15JY9.REC D15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D842 July 15, 2019
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
JULY 16, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine
the expected nomination of Mark T. Esper, to be Sec-
retary of Defense, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: to
hold hearings to examine Facebook’s proposed digital cur-
rency and data privacy considerations, 10 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: business
meeting to consider S. 143, to authorize the Department
of Energy to conduct collaborative research with the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs in order to improve
healthcare services for veterans in the United States, S.
174, to provide for the establishment of a pilot program
to identify security vulnerabilities of certain entities in
the energy sector, S. 253, to coordinate the provision of
energy retrofitting assistance to schools, S. 520, to require
the Secretary of Energy to establish an energy efficiency
materials pilot program, S. 715, to improve the produc-
tivity and energy efficiency of the manufacturing sector
by directing the Secretary of Energy, in coordination with
the National Academies and other appropriate Federal
agencies, to develop a national smart manufacturing plan
and to provide assistance to small- and medium-sized
manufacturers in implementing smart manufacturing pro-
grams, S. 816, to amend the Natural Gas Act to expedite
approval of exports of small volumes of natural gas, S.
859, to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to reau-
thorize hydroelectric production incentives and hydro-
electric efficiency improvement incentives, S. 903, to di-
rect the Secretary of Energy to establish advanced nuclear
goals, provide for a versatile, reactor-based fast neutron
source, make available high-assay, low-enriched uranium
for research, development, and demonstration of advanced
nuclear reactor concepts, S. 983, to amend the Energy
Conservation and Production Act to reauthorize the
weatherization assistance program, S. 990, to authorize
the Secretary of the Interior to participate in the imple-
mentation of the Platte River Recovery Implementation
Program First Increment Extension for threatened and en-
dangered species in the Central and Lower Platte River
Basin, S. 1052, to authorize the Office of Fossil Energy
to develop advanced separation technologies for the ex-
traction and recovery of rare earth elements and minerals
from coal and coal byproducts, S. 1064, to require the
Secretary of Energy to conduct a study on the national
security implications of building ethane and other nat-
ural-gas-liquids-related petrochemical infrastructure in
the United States, S. 1085, to support research, develop-
ment, and other activities to develop innovative vehicle
technologies, S. 1201, to amend the fossil energy research
and development provisions of the Energy Policy Act of
2005 to enhance fossil fuel technology, S. 1245, to im-
prove energy performance in Federal buildings, S. 1286,
to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to facilitate the
commercialization of energy and related technologies de-
veloped at Department of Energy facilities with prom-
ising commercial potential, S. 1317, to facilitate the
availability, development, and environmentally respon-
sible production of domestic resources to meet national
material or critical mineral needs, S. 1685, to require the
Secretary of Energy to establish a program for the re-
search, development, and demonstration of commercially
viable technologies for the capture of carbon dioxide pro-
duced during the generation of natural gas-generated
power, S. 1706, to amend the National Energy Conserva-
tion Policy Act to encourage the increased use of per-
formance contracting in Federal facilities, S. 1857, to
amend the National Energy Conservation Policy Act to
improve Federal energy and water performance require-
ments for Federal buildings and establish a Federal En-
ergy Management Program, H.R. 347, to extend the au-
thorization of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Con-
trol Act of 1978 relating to the disposal site in Mesa
County, Colorado, H.R. 762, to amend the Energy Policy
and Conservation Act to provide for the dissemination of
information regarding available Federal programs relating
to energy efficiency projects for schools, and H.R. 1138,
to reauthorize the West Valley demonstration project, 10
a.m., SD–366.
Subcommittee on Public Lands, Forests, and Mining,
to hold hearings to examine long-term management op-
tions for the Bureau of Land Management’s Wild Horse
and Burro Program, 2:30 p.m., SD–366.
Committee on Foreign Relations: Subcommittee on Near
East, South Asia, Central Asia, and Counterterrorism, to
hold hearings to examine Iraq, focusing on a crossroads
of United States policy, 2:30 p.m., SD–419.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
to hold hearings to examine the nominations of Ann C.
Fisher, of the District of Columbia, and Ashley Jay Eliza-
beth Poling, of North Carolina, both to be a Commis-
sioner of the Postal Regulatory Commission, Catherine
Bird, of Texas, to be General Counsel of the Federal
Labor Relations Authority, and Rainey R. Brandt, and
Shana Frost Matini, both to be an Associate Judge of the
Superior Court of the District of Columbia, 10 a.m.,
SD–342.
Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine the 2020
Census, focusing on conducting a secure and accurate
count, 2:30 p.m., SD–342.
Committee on Judiciary: Subcommittee on the Constitu-
tion, to hold hearings to examine Google and censorship
through search engines, 2:30 p.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to hold closed hearings to
examine certain intelligence matters, 2:30 p.m., SH–219.
House
Committee on Agriculture, Subcommittee on Livestock
and Foreign Agriculture, hearing entitled ‘‘Reviewing the
State of the U.S. Livestock and Poultry Economies’’, 10
a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on
Higher Education and Workforce Investment, hearing en-
titled ‘‘Scaling Up Apprenticeships: Building on the Suc-
cess of International Apprenticeship Models’’, 10:15 a.m.,
2175 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15JY9.REC D15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D843
July 15, 2019
Subcommittee on Civil Rights and Human Services,
hearing entitled ‘‘Strengthening Federal Support to End
Youth Homelessness’’, 2 p.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations, hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight
of Federal Efforts to Combat the Spread of Illicit
Fentanyl’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Communications and Technology,
hearing entitled ‘‘Our Wireless Future: Building A Com-
prehensive Approach to Spectrum Policy’’, 10:30 a.m.,
2322 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 3621, the ‘‘Student Borrower Credit Improve-
ment Act’’; H.R. 3623, the ‘‘Climate Risk Disclosure Act
of 2019’’; H.R. 3624, the ‘‘Outsourcing Accountability
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3625, the ‘‘PCAOB Whistleblower
Protection Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3629, the ‘‘Clarity in
Credit Score Formation Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3641, the
‘‘Stronger Enforcement of Civil Penalties Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 3701, to establish a statute of limitations for certain
actions of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and
for other purposes; H.R. 3702, the ‘‘Reforming Disaster
Recovery Act’’; and legislation on the Accurate Access to
Credit Information Act’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on Europe,
Eurasia, Energy, and the Environment, hearing entitled
‘‘Russian Disinformation Attacks on Elections: Lessons
from Europe’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on House Administration, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of the United States Capitol
Police’’, 10 a.m., 1310 Longworth.
Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Crime,
Terrorism, and Homeland Security, hearing entitled
‘‘Women and Girls in the Criminal Justice System’’, 10
a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Immigration and Citizenship, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Policy Changes and Processing Delays at
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services’’, 12 p.m.,
2237 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Antitrust Commercial, and Adminis-
trative Law, hearing entitled ‘‘Online Platforms and Mar-
ket Power, Part 2: Innovation and Entrepreneurship’’, 2
p.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee for Indig-
enous Peoples of the United States, hearing on H.R.
2414, to amend the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L.
Udall Foundation Act; H.R. 2031, the ‘‘PROGRESS for
Indian Tribes Act’’; H.R. 895, the ‘‘Tribal School Federal
Insurance Parity Act’’; and H.R. 396, to provide for the
equitable settlement of certain Indian land disputes re-
garding land in Illinois, and for other purposes, 2 p.m.,
1334 Longworth.
Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Oil and Gas Development: Impacts of Busi-
ness-as-Usual on the Climate and Public Health’’, 2 p.m.,
1324 Longworth.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘The Legacy of Apollo’’, 10 a.m.,
2318 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Investigations and Oversight; and
Subcommittee on Environment, joint hearing entitled
‘‘EPA Advisory Committees: How Science Should Inform
Decisions’’, 2 p.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Con-
tracting and Infrastructure, hearing entitled ‘‘Helping
Small Businesses Compete: Challenges and Opportunities
in the Federal Procurement Marketplace’’, 10 a.m., 2360
Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Highways and Transit, hearing entitled
‘‘Oversight of the Federal Transit Administration’s Imple-
mentation of the Capital Investment Grant Program’’, 10
a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Solving the Climate Crisis: Cleaning Up
Heavy Duty Vehicles, Protecting Communities’’, 10 a.m.,
2172 Rayburn.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: to hold
hearings to examine responding to hate crimes, focusing
on the role of religious actors, 11 a.m., 2200, Rayburn
Building.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of July 16 through July 19, 2019
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of
the nomination of Peter Joseph Phipps, of Pennsyl-
vania, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Third Circuit, post-cloture, and vote on confirmation
of the nomination at 3 p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Peter
Joseph Phipps, Senate will vote on the motion to in-
voke cloture on the Protocol Amending the Tax
Convention with Spain (Treaty Doc. 113–4).
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: July 18,
to hold hearings to examine agricultural research and
2018 Farm Bill implementation, 10:30 a.m., SR–328A.
Committee on Armed Services: July 16, to hold hearings
to examine the expected nomination of Mark T. Esper, to
be Secretary of Defense, 9:30 a.m., SD–G50.
July 18, Full Committee, business meeting to
consider pending military nominations, 9:30 a.m.,
SR–222.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: July
16, to hold hearings to examine Facebook’s proposed dig-
ital currency and data privacy considerations, 10 a.m.,
SH–216.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15JY9.REC D15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D844 July 15, 2019
July 17, Subcommittee on Economic Policy, to
hold hearings to examine economic mobility, focus-
ing on whether the American dream is in crisis, 9:30
a.m., SD–538.
July 18, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine export control reform implementation, focus-
ing on outside perspectives, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: July
17, to hold hearings to examine National Aeronautics and
Space Administration plans for deep space exploration, fo-
cusing on the Moon to Mars, 10 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: July 16, busi-
ness meeting to consider S. 143, to authorize the Depart-
ment of Energy to conduct collaborative research with the
Department of Veterans Affairs in order to improve
healthcare services for veterans in the United States, S.
174, to provide for the establishment of a pilot program
to identify security vulnerabilities of certain entities in
the energy sector, S. 253, to coordinate the provision of
energy retrofitting assistance to schools, S. 520, to require
the Secretary of Energy to establish an energy efficiency
materials pilot program, S. 715, to improve the produc-
tivity and energy efficiency of the manufacturing sector
by directing the Secretary of Energy, in coordination with
the National Academies and other appropriate Federal
agencies, to develop a national smart manufacturing plan
and to provide assistance to small- and medium-sized
manufacturers in implementing smart manufacturing pro-
grams, S. 816, to amend the Natural Gas Act to expedite
approval of exports of small volumes of natural gas, S.
859, to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to reau-
thorize hydroelectric production incentives and hydro-
electric efficiency improvement incentives, S. 903, to di-
rect the Secretary of Energy to establish advanced nuclear
goals, provide for a versatile, reactor-based fast neutron
source, make available high-assay, low-enriched uranium
for research, development, and demonstration of advanced
nuclear reactor concepts, S. 983, to amend the Energy
Conservation and Production Act to reauthorize the
weatherization assistance program, S. 990, to authorize
the Secretary of the Interior to participate in the imple-
mentation of the Platte River Recovery Implementation
Program First Increment Extension for threatened and en-
dangered species in the Central and Lower Platte River
Basin, S. 1052, to authorize the Office of Fossil Energy
to develop advanced separation technologies for the ex-
traction and recovery of rare earth elements and minerals
from coal and coal byproducts, S. 1064, to require the
Secretary of Energy to conduct a study on the national
security implications of building ethane and other nat-
ural-gas-liquids-related petrochemical infrastructure in
the United States, S. 1085, to support research, develop-
ment, and other activities to develop innovative vehicle
technologies, S. 1201, to amend the fossil energy research
and development provisions of the Energy Policy Act of
2005 to enhance fossil fuel technology, S. 1245, to im-
prove energy performance in Federal buildings, S. 1286,
to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to facilitate the
commercialization of energy and related technologies de-
veloped at Department of Energy facilities with prom-
ising commercial potential, S. 1317, to facilitate the
availability, development, and environmentally respon-
sible production of domestic resources to meet national
material or critical mineral needs, S. 1685, to require the
Secretary of Energy to establish a program for the re-
search, development, and demonstration of commercially
viable technologies for the capture of carbon dioxide pro-
duced during the generation of natural gas-generated
power, S. 1706, to amend the National Energy Conserva-
tion Policy Act to encourage the increased use of per-
formance contracting in Federal facilities, S. 1857, to
amend the National Energy Conservation Policy Act to
improve Federal energy and water performance require-
ments for Federal buildings and establish a Federal En-
ergy Management Program, H.R. 347, to extend the au-
thorization of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Con-
trol Act of 1978 relating to the disposal site in Mesa
County, Colorado, H.R. 762, to amend the Energy Policy
and Conservation Act to provide for the dissemination of
information regarding available Federal programs relating
to energy efficiency projects for schools, and H.R. 1138,
to reauthorize the West Valley demonstration project, 10
a.m., SD–366.
July 16, Subcommittee on Public Lands, Forests, and
Mining, to hold hearings to examine long-term manage-
ment options for the Bureau of Land Management’s Wild
Horse and Burro Program, 2:30 p.m., SD–366.
July 18, Subcommittee on Water and Power, to hold
hearings to examine opportunities to increase water stor-
age and conservation through rehabilitation and develop-
ment of water supply infrastructure, including S. 1570,
to provide flexibility to allow greater aquifer recharge, S.
1932, to support water infrastructure in Reclamation
States, and S. 2044, to amend the Omnibus Public Land
Management Act of 2009 to establish an Aging Infra-
structure Account, to amend the Reclamation Safety of
Dams Act of 1978 to provide additional funds under that
Act, to establish a review of flood control rule curves
pilot project within the Bureau of Reclamation, 10 a.m.,
SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: July 17, to
hold hearings to examine electric battery production and
waste, focusing on opportunities and challenges, 10 a.m.,
SD–406.
Committee on Foreign Relations: July 16, Subcommittee
on Near East, South Asia, Central Asia, and Counterter-
rorism, to hold hearings to examine Iraq, focusing on a
crossroads of United States policy, 2:30 p.m., SD–419.
July 17, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine
the nomination of Michelle A. Bekkering, of the District
of Columbia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the
United States Agency for International Development,
2:30 p.m., SD–419.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
July 16, to hold hearings to examine the nominations of
Ann C. Fisher, of the District of Columbia, and Ashley
Jay Elizabeth Poling, of North Carolina, both to be a
Commissioner of the Postal Regulatory Commission,
Catherine Bird, of Texas, to be General Counsel of the
Federal Labor Relations Authority, and Rainey R. Brandt,
and Shana Frost Matini, both to be an Associate Judge
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15JY9.REC D15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D845
July 15, 2019
of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia, 10
a.m., SD–342.
July 16, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine
the 2020 Census, focusing on conducting a secure and ac-
curate count, 2:30 p.m., SD–342.
July 17, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine
unprecedented migration at the United States southern
border, focusing on bipartisan policy recommendations
from the Homeland Security Advisory Council, 9:15 a.m.,
SD–342.
July 17, Subcommittee on Federal Spending Oversight
and Emergency Management, to hold hearings to examine
the Federally incurred cost of regulatory changes and how
such changes are made, 2:30 p.m., SD–342.
Committee on Indian Affairs: July 17, business meeting
to consider S. 886, to amend the Omnibus Public Land
Management Act of 2009 to make the Reclamation
Water Settlements Fund permanent, and S. 2071, to re-
peal certain obsolete laws relating to Indians, 2:30 p.m.,
SD–628.
Committee on Judiciary: July 16, Subcommittee on the
Constitution, to hold hearings to examine Google and
censorship through search engines, 2:30 p.m., SD–226.
July 17, Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine
pending nominations, 10 a.m., SD–226.
July 18, Full Committee, business meeting to consider
S. 1273, to amend title 17, United States Code, to estab-
lish an alternative dispute resolution program for copy-
right small claims, S. 1883, to improve the prohibitions
on money laundering, and the nominations of Douglas
Russell Cole, and Matthew Walden McFarland, both to
be a United States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of Ohio, Robert Anthony Molloy, to be Judge for
the District Court of the Virgin Islands, and Kea
Whetzal Riggs, to be United States District Judge for
the District of New Mexico, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: July 16, to hold closed
hearings to examine certain intelligence matters, 2:30
p.m., SH–219.
July 18, Full Committee, to hold closed hearings to
examine certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
Special Committee on Aging: July 17, to hold hearings to
examine combating robocall fraud, focusing on using
telecom advances and law enforcement to stop scammers
and protect seniors, 9:30 a.m., SD–562.
House Committees
Committee on Agriculture, July 17, Subcommittee on Bio-
technology, Horticulture, and Research, hearing entitled
‘‘Assessing the Effectiveness of the National Organic Pro-
gram’’, 10 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Committee on Education and Labor, July 17, Sub-
committee on Early Childhood, Elementary, and Sec-
ondary Education; and Subcommittee on Higher Edu-
cation and Workforce Investment, joint hearing entitled
‘‘Educating our Educators: How Federal Policy Can Bet-
ter Support Teachers and School Leaders’’, 10:15 a.m.,
2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, July 17, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 3375, the ‘‘Stopping Bad
Robocalls Act’’; H.R. 2211, the ‘‘STURDY Act’’; H.R.
3172, the ‘‘Safe Sleep for Babies Act of 2019’’; H.R.
3170, the ‘‘Safe Cribs Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1618, the
‘‘Nicholas and Zachary Burt Carbon Monoxide Poisoning
Prevention Act of 2019’’; H.R. 806, the ‘‘Portable Fuel
Container Safety Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2647, the ‘‘SOFFA’’;
H.R. 1315, the ‘‘Blue Collar to Green Collar Jobs Devel-
opment Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2665, the ‘‘Smart Energy
and Water Efficiency Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2044, the
‘‘Smart Building Acceleration Act’’; H.R. 359, the ‘‘En-
hancing Grid Security through Public-Private Partner-
ships Act’’; H.R. 360, the ‘‘Cyber Sense Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 362, the ‘‘Energy Emergency Leadership Act’’; H.R.
370, the ‘‘Pipeline and LNG Facility Cybersecurity Pre-
paredness Act’’; H.R. 2088, a bill to amend the Energy
Independence and Security Act of 2007 to reauthorize the
Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Pro-
gram, and for other purposes; H.R. 2041, the ‘‘Weather-
ization Enhancement and Local Energy Efficiency Invest-
ment and Accountability Act’’; H.R. 2119, a bill to
amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to reauthorize
grants for improving the energy efficiency of public
buildings, and for other purposes; H.R. 2781, the ‘‘EM-
POWER for Health Act of 2019’’; H.R. 728, the ‘‘Title
VIII Nursing Workforce Reauthorization Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 1058, the ‘‘Autism CARES Act of 2019’’; H.R.
2507, the ‘‘Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2019’’; H.R. 776, the ‘‘Emergency Medical
Services for Children Program Reauthorization Act of
2019’’; H.R. 2035, the ‘‘Lifespan Respite Care Reauthor-
ization Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2296, the ‘‘METRIC Act’’;
H.R. 2328, the ‘‘REACH Act’’; and H.R. 3432, the
‘‘Safer Pipelines Act of 2019’’, 9:30 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, July 17, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Examining Facebook’s Proposed
Cryptocurrency and Its Impact on Consumers, Investors,
and the American Financial System’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, July 17, Full Committee,
markup on H. Res. 326, expressing the sense of the
House regarding United States efforts to resolve the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict through a negotiated two-state
solution; H. Res. 246, opposing efforts to delegitimize
the State of Israel and the Global Boycott, Divestment,
and Sanctions Movement targeting Israel; H.R. 1850, the
‘‘Palestinian International Terrorism Support Prevention
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1837, the ‘‘United States-Israel Co-
operation Enhancement and Regional Security Act’’; H.
Res. 138, expressing support for addressing the Arab-
Israeli conflict in a concurrent track with the Israeli-Pal-
estinian peace process and commending Arab and Mus-
lim-majority states that have improved bilateral relations
with Israel; H. Con. Res. 32, expressing the sense of Con-
gress regarding the execution-style murders of United
States citizens Ylli, Agron, and Mehmet Bytyqi in the
Republic of Serbia in July 1999; H. Res. 442, observing
10 years since the war in Sri Lanka ended on May 18,
2009, commemorating the lives lost, and expressing sup-
port for transitional justice, reconciliation, reconstruction,
reparation, and reform in Sri Lanka, which are necessary
to ensure a lasting peace and a prosperous future for all
Sri Lankans; H.R. 3501, the ‘‘Safeguard our Elections and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15JY9.REC D15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D846 July 15, 2019
Combat Unlawful Interference in Our Democracy Act’’;
H.R. 2097, to recognize the Hmong, Khmer, Laotian,
and other ethnic groups commonly referred to as
Montagnards, who supported and defended the Armed
Forces during the conflict in Southeast Asia, authorize as-
sistance to support activities relating to clearance of
unexploded ordnance and other explosive remnants of
war, and for other purposes; and H. Res. 127, expressing
the sense of the House of Representatives on the impor-
tance and vitality of the United States alliances with
Japan and the Republic of Korea, and our trilateral co-
operation in the pursuit of shared interests, 10 a.m., 2172
Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, July 17, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 2203, the ‘‘Homeland Security
Improvement Act’’; H.R. 3106, the ‘‘Domestic Terrorism
DATA Act’’; H.R. 3246, the ‘‘Traveling Parents Screen-
ing Consistency Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3318, the ‘‘Emerg-
ing Transportation Security Threats Act of 2019’’; H.R.
3320, the ‘‘Securing the Homeland Security Supply Chain
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3356, the ‘‘Veterans Expedited TSA
Screening Safe Travel Act’’; H.R. 3413, the ‘‘DHS Acqui-
sition Reform Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3525, the ‘‘U.S. Bor-
der Patrol Medical Screening Standards Act’’; H.R. 3526,
the ‘‘Counter Terrorist Network Act’’; H.R. 3669, the
‘‘Weatherizing Infrastructure in the North and Terrorism
Emergency Readiness Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3670, the
‘‘Short-term Detention Act’’; H.R. 3675, the ‘‘Trusted
Traveler Reconsideration and Restoration Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 3691, the ‘‘TRANSLATE Act’’; H.R. 3694, the
‘‘Helping Families Fly Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3699, the
‘‘Pipeline Security Act’’; H.R. 3710, the ‘‘Cybersecurity
Vulnerability Remediation Act’’; legislation on the Joint
Task Force to Combat Opioid Trafficking Act of 2019;
legislation on the ‘‘Strategic and Humane Southern Bor-
der Migrant Response Act’’, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, July 17, Full Committee,
markup on H.R. 3239, the ‘‘Humanitarian Standards for
Individuals in Customs and Border Protection Custody
Act’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
July 18, Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Prop-
erty, and the Internet, hearing entitled ‘‘Counterfeits and
Cluttering: Emerging Threats to the Integrity of the
Trademark System and the Impact on American Con-
sumers and Businesses’’, 9 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, July 17, Full Com-
mittee, markup on H.R. 1373, the ‘‘Grand Canyon Cen-
tennial Protection Act’’; H.R. 2181, the ‘‘Chaco Cultural
Heritage Area Protection Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3405, the
‘‘Removing Uranium from the Critical Minerals List
Act’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
July 18, Subcommittee on Water, Oceans, and Wild-
life, hearing on H.R. 2245, the ‘‘CECIL Act’’, 10 a.m.,
1324 Longworth.
July 18, Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and
Public Lands, hearing on H.R. 401, the ‘‘Lowell Observ-
atory Conveyance Act’’; H.R. 1492, the ‘‘Yucca House
National Monument Boundary Revision Act’’; H.R.
1572, the ‘‘Botanical Sciences and Native Plant Materials
Research, Restoration, and Promotion Act’’; and H.R.
2819, the ‘‘Gold Star Families National Monument Ex-
tension Act’’, 10 a.m., 1334 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, July 17, Sub-
committee on Government Operations, hearing entitled
‘‘To the Cloud! The Cloudy Role of FedRAMP in IT
Modernization’’, 11 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
July 18, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Hearing
with Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Kevin K.
McAleenan’’, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, July 17, Sub-
committee on Research and Technology; and Sub-
committee on Investigations and Oversight, joint hearing
entitled ‘‘Scientific Integrity in Federal Agencies’’, 10
a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
July 17, Subcommittee on Energy, hearing entitled
‘‘The Future of Electricity Delivery: Modernizing and Se-
curing our Nation’s Electricity Grid’’, 2 p.m., 2318 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Small Business, July 17, Full Committee,
markup on H.R. 3537, the ‘‘Veteran Entrepreneurship
Training Act of 2019’’; legislation on the Successful En-
trepreneurship for Reservists and Veterans Act; H.R.
1615, the ‘‘Verification Alignment and Service-disabled
Business Adjustment Act’’; H.R. 499, the ‘‘Service-Dis-
abled Veterans Small Business Continuation Act’’; and
H.R. 3661, the ‘‘Patriotic Employer Protection Act’’,
11:30 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, July 17,
Subcommittee on Aviation, hearing entitled ‘‘State of
Aviation Safety’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, July 17, Subcommittee
on Economic Opportunity, hearing on H.R. 561, the
‘‘Protecting Business Opportunities for Veterans Act of
2019’’; H.R. 716, the ‘‘Homeless Veterans Legal Services
Act’’; H.R. 1615, the ‘‘VA–SBA Act’’; H.R. 2227, the
‘‘Gold Star Spouses and Spouses of Injured
Servicemembers Leasing Relief Expansion Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 2618, to amend the Servicemembers Civil Relief
Act to provide a guarantee of residency for registration of
businesses of spouses of members of the uniformed serv-
ices, to improve occupational license portability for mili-
tary spouses through interstate compacts, and for other
purposes; H.R. 2924, the ‘‘Housing for Women Veterans
Act’’; legislation to amend title 38, United States Code,
to authorize State approving agencies to carry out out-
reach activities; legislation to amend title 38, United
States Code, to require that educational institutions abide
by Principles of Excellence as a condition of approval for
purposes of the educational assistance programs of the
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes;
legislation to amend title 38, United States Code, to re-
quire proprietary for-profit educational institutions to
comply with Federal revenue limits to participate in edu-
cational assistance programs of the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs; legislation to amend title 38, United States
Code, to require that certain educational institutions have
letters of credit as a condition of approval for purposes
of the educational assistance programs of the Department
of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes; legislation on
the Forever GI Bill Class Evaluation Act; legislation on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15JY9.REC D15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D847
July 15, 2019
the VA Economic Hardship Report Act; legislation to au-
thorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to collect over-
payments of specially adapted housing assistance; legisla-
tion on the legal Services for Homeless Veterans Act; leg-
islation on the GI Bill Access to Career Credentials Act;
legislation to amend title 38, United States Code, to ex-
tend the time period under which an election must be
made for entitlement to educational assistance under the
All-Volunteer Educational Assistance Program of Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs; legislation on the Student Vet-
eran Empowerment Act of 2019; and legislation to
amend title 38, United States Code, to increase the
monthly housing stipend under the Post-9/11 Edu-
cational Assistance Program for individuals who pursue
programs of education solely through distance learning on
more than a half-time basis, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: July 16,
to hold hearings to examine responding to hate crimes,
focusing on the role of religious actors, 11 a.m., 2200,
Rayburn Building.
July 18, Full Committee, to receive a briefing to exam-
ine truth, reconciliation, and healing toward a unified fu-
ture, 10 a.m., 2167, Rayburn Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15JY9.REC D15JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D848 July 15, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, July 16
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Peter Joseph Phipps, of Penn-
sylvania, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Third
Circuit, post-cloture, and vote on confirmation of the
nomination at 3 p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Peter Jo-
seph Phipps, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke
cloture on the Protocol Amending the Tax Convention
with Spain (Treaty Doc. 113–4).
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Tuesday, July 16
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Consideration of H.R. 3494—
Damon Paul Nelson and Matthew Young Pollard Intel-
ligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Subject
to a Rule). Consideration of H. Res. 489—Condemning
President Trump’s racist comments directed at Members
of Congress (Subject to a Rule).
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Axne, Cynthia, Iowa, E917
Brady, Kevin, Tex., E921
Brooks, Mo, Ala., E922
Cisneros, Gilbert Ray, Jr., Calif., E918
Cleaver, Emanuel, Mo., E920
DeFazio, Peter A., Ore., E919
Eshoo, Anna G., Calif., E917
Graves, Sam, Mo., E922
Hoyer, Steny H., Md., E918
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E921
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E923
Johnson, Eddie Bernice, Tex., E922
Lamborn, Doug, Colo., E917
Larson, John B., Conn., E920
Lowenthal, Alan S., Calif., E920
Meng, Grace, N.Y., E917
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E918, E920, E921
Payne, Donald M., Jr., N.J., E922
Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E923
Reed, Tom, N.Y., E919
Rogers, Mike, Ala., E921, E922
Rutherford, John H., Fla., E921
Wasserman Schultz, Debbie, Fla., E923
Watkins, Steve, Kans., E922
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:04 Jul 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D15JY9.REC D15JYPT1
